 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14913

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 05/31/2016

               Country: Guinea
             Project ID: P065129                                                  Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Gn-village Comm              Project Costs (US$M):                     46.0                 34.96
                         Supp Program -
                         Phase 2
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                      17.0                  17.4
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural       Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Development
          Cofinanciers: IFAD, Agence                 Board Approval Date :                               08/14/2007
                        Francaise de                         Closing Date:           06/30/2012          12/31/2014
                        Devloppement (AFD)
         Sector(s):     Sub-national government administration (32%); General agriculture; fishing and forestry
                        sector (26%); Central government administration (16%); Other social services (13%);
                        General water; sanitation and flood protection sector (13%)
         Theme(s):      Participation and civic engagement (33%); Decentralization (33%); Rural policies and
                        institutions (17%); Other rural development (17%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
J. W. Van Holst           Ridley Nelson          Christopher David          IEGPS1
Pellekaan                                        Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The Program d'Appui aux Communautes Villageneoises (PACV) or Village Communities Support Program is a three
phase program. The program's broad objective was: "to strengthen local governance in rural Guinea and promote
social and economic empowerment of the rural population, including women, youth and other marginalized groups"
(PAD, para 4).

The Financing Agreement (FA) for PACV II defined the project's development objective as "to support the Recipient’s
Rural Development Communities in fulfillment of their mandate of planning and implementing inclusive local
development activities, and in improving their revenue performance to sustain recurrent costs" (Schedule 1).

The development objective defined in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for PACV II required that "Commune
Rurale de Developement (CRDs) or Rural Development Municipalities are enabled to fulfil their mandate of planning
and implementing inclusive local development activities, and improving revenue performance to sustain their recurrent
costs" (para 22)

This Review will use the objective in the FA against which to assess achievements of this project - an adaptable
program loan (APL).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:
 The project had three components, namely; (a) Local Investment Fund; (b) capacity building for decentralized rural
development; and (c) project management, monitoring and evaluation. They are summarized below based on paras
26 to 36 in the PAD..

(a) Local Investment Fund (estimated appraisal cost UD$28,7 million; actual cost US$17.8 million). This was an
institutional mechanism for transferring funds to the Communautes Rurale de Developpement (CRDs, also referred to
more briefly as CRs, but CRD will be used in this Review) or rural development communities to finance public
socio-economic infrastructure identified on the basis of a participatory strategic planning process. CRDs were to
receive and manage funds to implement and maintain technically sound infrastructure. The project provided an
opportunity for local governments to take charge of local development challenges. Based on the positive experience
under the first phase, CRDs would continue to manage funds from the Local Investment Fund (LIF) to implement their
own development plans, and would be responsible for contract management, monitoring and evaluation, as well as
the operation and maintenance of the investments.

The LIF had two windows in PACV II. The first financed public socio-economic infrastructure and services identified by
CRDs in their Local Development Plans. The LIF complemented the local government's investment budget and aimed
at improving access to basic socio-economic infrastructure in rural areas. At the same time this window functioned as
a fund to leverage additional resources and an instrument for building local planning, implementation and resource
management capacity. The identification, preparation and implementation of activities were the responsibility of the
CRDs, which used participatory processes and involving all beneficiaries. In addition, the beneficiaries had the
responsibility for contracting management, monitoring and evaluation, and maintenance of the infrastructure.

According to the PAD, the second window supported activities aimed at ensuring sustainable management and
protection of natural resources through participatory approaches. Incremental grant funding for this window was to
come from the Global Environment Facility (GEF) - to finance the Community-Based Land Management Project
(CBLMP) and the Coastal Marine and Biodiversity Management Project (CMBMP) which was focused initially on
15-20 CRDs in several critical watersheds. These projects were, however, geographically limited in focus and scope.
The GEF project financed the preparation of watershed plans to reduce land degradation in selected CRDs where
PACV II was being implemented. The project team advised that the GEF grant, though also implemented by the
National Coordination Unit (Cellule Nationale de Coordination or CNC), was managed as a separate operation. There
was no overlap between the two projects.

(b) Capacity Building for Decentralized Rural Development (estimated appraisal cost US$10.2 million; actual cost
US$7.72 million). Rural development municipalities (CRDs) were empowered by this component to prepare and
implement inclusive investment plans with support from decentralized staff. This component also aimed to increase
the capacity of CRDs to manage the infrastructure they financed. The component was managed by the National
Directorate for Decentralization (Direction Nationale de la Decentralisation - DND) in the Ministry of Territorial
Administration and Decentralization (MATD). The capacity building activities under this component addressed (a) the
technical and fiduciary skills needed at the different decentralized levels to implement local development activities,
and (b) support to the Government in developing the details of the legal framework to further fiscal and administrative
decentralization as envisioned in the Code des collectivites locules (transfer of powers to local government)

In light of the conclusion that some critical CRD institutional structures in Phase I remained non-functional due to a
lack of human and financial resources, Phase II was designed to help establish the legally mandated institutions at
CRD level and transferring basic functional skills to them. The project would develop corresponding performance
benchmarks to ensure progress toward these desired results. At prefecture and regional levels, government staff
needed to be sensitized and trained for their roles and responsibilities under decentralization. A major awareness
campaign would be be undertaken to explain the rights and responsibilities of local governments, citizens, and central
government. The PAD noted that heretofore the management of revenue collection and expenditure by prefectures
with centralized accountability was done inefficiently and without transparency.

The GEF financed operation would, according to the PAD, provide incremental financing to strengthen capacity of
selected CRDs and decentralized technical services to integrate sustainable land management and natural resource
management concerns into the local development planning and prioritization process. The CMBMP would do so in the
coastal CRDs, while the CBLMP would focus initially on 15-20 CRDs in several critical watersheds. As explained
above the GEF project was not part of PACV II and managed as a separate operation with an independent ICR.

(c) Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (estimated appraisal cost US$7.1 million; actual cost US$10.06
million). Responsibility for overall coordination, monitoring and evaluation of this project's activities were assigned to
the National Coordination Unit (CNC) under the oversight of the Ministry of Planning. Its size (though not small)
limited its activity to core functions critical to the project's success and for which capacity constraints existed in the
Guinean civil service (i.e. overall coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and fiduciary matters). The CNC was
supported by regional units in each of the seven administrative regions to oversee the implementation of work
programs and provide mentoring services to decentralized government agencies at the regional, prefecture, and
departmental levels. Project management responsibilities included harmonizing implementation procedures, preparing
and overseeing the implementation of annual work programs, providing support to the Project Steering Committee,
and organizing field supervision trips, managing the LIF and transfer of funds to local governments, and ensuring
overall consistency with project implementation.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Cost. At appraisal the project's estimated total cost was US$46 million, but its actual cost was US$34.96
million. The lower cost was because of a lower than anticipated disbursement of funds from the Agence Francaise de
Developpement (AFD) as explained below, a lower community contribution of only US$1.8 million compared with an
appraisal estimate of US$5.5 million, and the waiver of the Government's contribution estimated at appraisal as
US$1.5 million.

Financing. The project was financed from three sources, namely (a) IDA - the estimated contribution at appraisal was
US$17.0 million, but the actual disbursement was US$17.4 million; (b) International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) - the estimated contribution at appraisal was US$10.00 million but the actual disbursement, which required a
modified agreement during implementation (see ICR, para 19), was US$10.08 million; and (c) Agence Francaise de
Developpement (AFD) - the estimated contribution at appraisal was US$12.00 million, but the actual disbursement,
which was conditional on Guinea reaching the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) completion point (see ICR,
para 20), was US$7.48 million.

Borrower Contribution . The Government's intended contribution at appraisal was estimated to be $1.5 million, but in
the event the Government was not in a position to make a contribution and donors made up the shortfall as part of
their contributions.

Dates. The following key dates were significant for the project's implementation and structure:

    In December 2008 the President of the Republic died and the military took over Government affairs which
     immediately triggered a suspension of World Bank disbursements for about two years.
    On April 21, 2011 - following the formation of a national democratically elected Government - Bank
     disbursements were resumed.
    On June 22, 2012 there was a re-allocation of the project proceeds to cover additional operating costs arising
     from the two-year hiatus in project implementation and from the need for PACV II to essentially start again and
     scale up rapidly to reach the expanded number of Commuanites Rurale (rural municipalities) included in the
     project’s second phase. In addition, the project's closing date was extended to June 30, 2013 (Restructuring
     Paper - Bank Report No. 70438 v1).
    On October 8, 2012 - Mid Term Review (MTR).
    On May 29, 2013 the results matrix was updated based on conclusions of the MTR, and the closing date was
     extended to December 31, 2013.
    On December 31, 2013 there was a re-allocation of the project's proceeds and the closing date was again
     extended to December 31, 2014 to complete the activities in the revised project work plan.

Additional Project Restructuring Elements . Following the MTR key performance indicators and their targets, including
baseline values, were revised. However, there were no material changes in the indicators or targets that necessitated
a split evaluation of the project's outcome.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High
The project's objective was "to support the Recipient’s Rural Development Communities in fulfillment of their mandate
of planning and implementing inclusive local development activities, and in improving their revenue performance to
sustain recurrent costs". The objective of "sustaining recurrent costs" was not clearly defined but for the purpose of
this Review it is interpreted as meaning keeping up the necessary expenditures to maintain the development
activities.

The socio-economic context in Guinea during appraisal (2006/2007) was fragile. Economic performance was poor,
the incidence of poverty had increased from 49 percent in 2002 to 56 percent in 2005, social indicators were low
compared with Sub Saharan Africa averages, there was considerable economic instability (inflation), weak
governance reflected by corruption, fragile political institutions, lack of inclusiveness in the dialogue on government
affairs, and inadequate legal and regulatory frameworks (ICR, para 2).
The Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (2002) had outlined a plan to address these challenges. The
plan had three pillars: (a) ensure faster economic growth and create employment opportunities, particularly for the
rural poor; (b) improve access to basic services; and (c) improve governance by strengthening institutional and human
capacity. The Government’s policy on decentralization was regarded as an entry point for implementing reforms.
However, implementation of reforms was inhibited by several obstacles such as resistance to change at the central
government level and a poor understanding of the benefits of decentralization at the local level (ICR, para 3).

The World Bank had previously supported improved governance at decentralized levels in Guinea. For example, the
2003-2006 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) focused Bank support on service delivery, institutional capacity
building, and policy reforms at the local level. The Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for 2011-2012, which followed the
establishment of an elected government in 2010, called for continued support for decentralization and local
government capacity development (see PAD, paras 7 and 8).

The current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for 2014-2017 focuses on: (a) improving governance and service
delivery, (b) stimulating growth and economic diversification, and (c) strengthening human capital. The CPS noted
that the Village Community Support project had disbursed its IDA funding but continued to disburse donor funds
(paras 47 and 50).

Overall this project's objective has been and continues to be highly relevant to Government and Bank strategic
objectives of poverty reduction, increased prosperity and improved decentralized governance for Guinea.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial
Ideally the results framework is a tool for evaluating the project's design but in this case it was not useful. The Results
Framework in Annex 3 of the PAD was not a summary of the project's causal chains and results. Instead it presented
the PDO and its indicators without targets in the first column, objectives for the three components and their indicators
(without targets) in the second column, and an explanation in the final column why the indicators were relevant. This
framework provided no information on the chain of events that would lead to intermediate or final outcomes/results
and therefore did not reflect the project's design. The results matrix was revised after the MTR. The revisions
involved changes in indicators for intermediate outcomes, but still no clear results chain and no targets.

While this project built on the successful achievements of the first phase in the PACV program, it was also influenced
by a World Bank analysis of the problems caused by the lack of decentralization of government in Guinea. In
particular the updated Lettre de Politique de Developpement Rural a la Base or Letter of Rural Development Policy
(January, 2007) underscored the Government's commitment to continue reform of fiscal, administrative, and political
decentralization policy in rural areas. The core design element of the PACV II program therefore continued to
promote policy reform geared toward the establishing transparent, equitable, and sustainable structures and
mechanisms for decentralized local governance (PAD, para 60).

PACV II enlarged the geographic scope of the program compared with the first phase by (a) providing funds to CRDs
to implement local development plans designed in the context of a participative framework, and (b) improving the
capacity of CRDs to prepare and implement agreed investment plans in an inclusive manner.

A key feature of the project’s design was that a standard contract had to be signed to transfer Loan Investment Fund
(LIF) resources from PACV II to the CRDs. Article 6 of the contract required CRDs to commit to allocating sufficient
funds in their annual budgets for the regular maintenance of infrastructure on a sustainable basis (Annex 2, para 3).

The project financed activities aimed at empowering CRDs to prepare and implement their development and
investment plans in an inclusive manner, with adequate support from deconcentrated staff. For example, the project
helped to establish: (a) procurement committees; (b) transparency committees (c) M&E committees; (d) committees
for control and reception (hand over) of civil works; and (e) monitoring and maintenance committees (ICR, Annex 2,
para 4).

PACV II was intended to reach all 303 (later increased to 304 as a result of redrawing their boundaries) CRDs in
Guinea and to include all types of socio-economic infrastructure of a public goods nature such as schools, health
facilities, bridges and domestic water points. Capacity building was implemented through numerous training
programs in a wide range of subjects. This training for capacity building was aimed at civil servants in key institutions
at the lowest level (the sub-prefecture), in order to build skills in these institutions and among their staff (see PAD,
para 19). The ICR also noted that the project "supported the implementation of awareness campaigns to broaden
communities’ understanding of the roles and responsibilities of the decentralized actors" - a design feature directly
relevant to the inclusiveness of local development activities (para 40).
 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   The project's PDO, namely "to support the Recipient’s Rural Development Communities in fulfillment of their
mandate of planning and implementing inclusive local development activities, and in improving their revenue
performance to sustain recurrent costs" is partitioned in this section of the Review into two sub-objectives: (a)
planning and implementing inclusive local development activities by CRDs; and (b) improving the revenue
performance to sustain recurrent costs incurred by CRDs. The project's achievements (outputs and outcomes) with
respect to each of these sub-objectives are summarized and assessed below.

(a) Planning and implementing inclusive local development activities by rural development communities (CRDs) -
Rated Substantial

Outputs:

    According to the ICR the project built and rehabilitated a range of infrastructure, but there were no targets
     against which to measure performance because the number of facilities and structures involved were identified
     through a participative (demand driven) planning process (ICR, Annex 2, Table A2.1).
     - 118 health facilities constructed, renovated, and/or equipped.
     - 393 additional primary school classrooms were built/rehabilitated
     - 49 bridges and crossings constructed/rehabilitated
     - 40 market centers constructed/rehabilitated
     - 30 administrative buildings constructed/rehabilitated
     - 2 sports and cultural centers constructed/rehabilitated
     - 17 water points constructed/rehabilitated
     - 2 salt production centers constructed/rehabilitated
     - 2 environment facilities constructed/rehabilitated

    Building institutional capacity . Training in planning significantly strengthened the CRs’ capacity in development
     planning as measured by the number of CRs which had a current (new or updated) Local Development Plan
     which met the target of 304 compared with the baseline of 159 (ICR, Data Sheet and para 43)

     - The project initiated a review of planning guidance to further improve the quality of LDPs and take into account
     all the strategic areas of socio-economic development at the local level.

     - Training increased the knowledge and skills of members of the committees associated with all aspects of
     project implementation and management, including project management and procurement, procedures for
     managing local investment funds, participatory M&E, and project M&E. A total of 7,870 staff benefited (of whom
     354 were women) from these capacity-building training programs. Of this number 5,479 (69.6%) were
     deconcentrated and decentralized staff (ICR, para 45)

    Role of prefecture and sub -prefecture staff . These staff also participated in planning and implementation of local
     development activities. 100 percent of prefecture and sub-prefecture sector staff participated in the full project
     cycle (diagnosis, planning and implementation) compared with a target of 60 percent and a baseline of 30
     percent (ICR, para 46)

     - The project CRs entered into partnership agreements with the 33 Prefectural Development Services (SPDs) for
     the delivery of agricultural support services

    Improved access to social services . According to the results of a survey by the National Statistics Institute (INS)
     the following were key achievements:

     - Over 72 percent of respondents indicated that it took them 15 minutes or less to get to a water point, versus
     only 0.5 percent of respondents who reported needing more than 2 hours to reach a water point.
     - To reach a primary school, 40.9 percent of respondents needed 15 minutes or less, compared to 7.8 percent
     who needed more than 2 hours.
     - 24 percent of respondents still needed more than 2 hours to reach a health post, compared to 18.2 percent of
     respondents who could reach one in 15 minutes or less.

    Beneficiaries’ access to potable water , education and public transport was reported to have increased
     significantly. The beneficiary assessment (ICR, Annex 5) showed the following although no baseline information
     was provided.

     - The average time for a beneficiary to walk to the nearest water point decreased from 37 minutes in 2009 to 21
     minutes in 2014.
     - Similarly, the average time for a beneficiary to walk to the nearest primary school decreased from 52 minutes in
     2009 to 49 minutes in 2014.
     - The average time for a beneficiary to reach the nearest place to get public transport decreased from 120
     minutes in 2009 to 91 minutes in 2014

    Inclusiveness was fostered . By the end of the project, all 304 CRs (100 percent) used some means to inform
     citizens about commune financing (for example - publication of financial information) compared with a target of 87
     percent and a baseline of 50 percent (ICR, para 49).

    Women’s participation in the management of community institutions improved . The percentage of CR
     management committees which included women was estimated at 26 percent in 2014 according to the survey
     conducted by the INS. Although the target was 30 percent, the achievement was a marked improvement over
     the baseline of only 15 percent of management committees which included women as members (ICR, Data
     Sheet).

Outcomes

    More development plans . 304 CRs had a current (new or updated) Local Development Plan (LDP) which met
     the target at the end of the project and was a substantial improvement over the baseline of 159. LDPs were
     subject to annual reviews during the process of developing an Annual Investment Program (ICR, para 43)

    Inclusiveness in planning and implementation . 30 percent of citizens in CRs (rural communities) supported by
     the project took part in local development planning processes by the end of the project based on the INS survey
     which compared with a target which was revised from 55 percent to 27 percent, and a baseline of 7.3 percent
     (ICR, Data Sheet and para 42).

    Impact of inclusiveness in planning and implementation . 33 percent of citizens who participated in the local
     development planning process considered that their opinion had been taken into account (based INS survey)
     compared to a target which had been reduced from 60 percent to 32 percent, and a baseline level of 12 percent
     (ICR, Data Sheet and para 43)

(b) Improving the revenue performance to sustain recurrent costs incurred by rural development communities
(RCDs) - Rated Substantial

Outputs

The ICR reported that the project achieved a number of milestones related to sound expenditure management in the
context of improved revenue performance

    Staffing of education and health facilities constructed . 98 percent of the infrastructure financed by the project
     (particularly education and health infrastructure) was staffed, compared with a target of 85 percent, and a
     baseline of 75 percent (Annex 2, para 3). The ICR indicated that there were some issues associated with quality
     of services at these facilities which will be elaborated in Section 7 of this Review.

    Implementation of annual investment plans (AIPs). 75 percent of rural communities (CRs) implemented their
     AIPs within the time frame defined by the Project Implementation Manual (i.e. six months from the receipt of
     funds until the completion of the AIP) compared with a target of 50 percent (ICR, para 45)

Outcomes

    Improvements in tax and non -tax revenue. 52.6 percent of rural municipalities (CRDs) increased their tax and
     non-tax revenue at the end of the project by at least 10 percent compared with a target of 50 percent, and a
     baseline of 25 percent of CRDs which had shown any increase in tax and non-tax revenue.(ICR, para 47). While
     this achievement surpassed the target for the project, the annual inflation rate in Guinea, despite having been as
     high as 18.4 percent p.a. at effectiveness in 2008, had dropped to below zero by 2014 (CIA World Factbook). If
     the rate of improvement in tax revenues can be sustained it can be expected to result in a real improvement in
     CRD revenues.

    Steady growth in capacity to generate tax revenue . Throughout project's implementation, the CRDs’ capacity to
     mobilize revenues improved steadily. The INS survey showed that average tax revenue of CRDs increased
     consistently between 2011 and 2014, growing from GNF22.1 million in 2011 to 23.2 in 2012, and then steadily
     increased to GNF 36.2 million in 2014 (ICR, Figure 1).
    Increased recurrent cost funding . 57.1 percent of CRDs increased annual funding for maintaining infrastructure
     and community facilities by more than 10 percent. The contractual agreement on maintenance, coupled with
     improvements in CRDs’ revenue-generating capacity, led to the achievement of this indicator (Annex 2, para 3)

 5. Efficiency:
  The PAD argued that an ex ante analysis of the project was not possible because of the demand-driven, dispersed
and flexible nature of the project's activities. It was also stated in the PAD that project investments such as
maintenance and rehabilitation of rural roads, safe water, education and health care would generate economic
benefits but they were not quantified (Annex 9, para 1).

The ICR analyzed the project's efficiency in terms of the cost of this project's infrastructure compared with
construction costs of primary schools and health centers in other projects in Guinea managed by the Ministries of
Territorial Administration and Decentralization, and the Ministries of Education and Health. The ICR claimed that the
lower average costs of PACV II infrastructure (ranging from 6 to 27 percent lower) were attributable to "strong
procurement capacity" in the project's institutions. The ICR provided no information on factors that would support the
comparability of the infrastructure costs for health centers and primary schools such as whether the structures were
built in the same year, were the same quality of construction, and were in similar locations. However, as a result of
discussions on the ICR with the TTL, evidence was provided for primary schools, showing that the quality of primary
schools constructed by the PACV II was substantially better than similar primary schools constructed by the Ministry
of Education. In addition, PACV II construction included equipment (classroom tables and chairs), while primary
schools constructed by the Ministry of Education construction did not. Nevertheless, the PACV II construction (even
with equipment included) was completed at 1 percent lower average cost (GNF 328,788,612 (an average for over 112
primary schools located across 6 of the 7 regions of the country constructed during the 2009-14 period) compared
with an average construction for the Ministry of Education (GNF372,935,586) - for an average of over 135 primary
schools located across 2 of the 7 regions of the country and constructed during roughly the same period. Similar
differences showing lower construction of project financed infrastructure compared with government financed
infrastructure were recorded for secondary schools, health centers and health posts.

Of course an analysis of costs without benefits does not lead to an assessment of efficiency. Overall there was no
quantitative information in the ICR regarding the value for money invested in the project's infrastructure. In addition,
there was no explanation for the high project overhead costs (management, monitoring and evaluation) which
increased from 17 percent of total costs at appraisal to 34 percent of actual total costs. However, following a meeting
with the TTL and his colleagues, IEG was provided with an analysis of the project's overhead costs which showed that
only 11 percent of overall total project costs were due to project management while the remainder was attributable to
training, M&E, direct project support and various investments. But, there was no evaluation of the value of the
comprehensive, varied and costly training financed by the project. Such an evaluation might have allowed the ICR to
argue that the training program, which generated a cohort of skilled staff at many levels, was a sound investment in
the government's institutional capacity and management efficiency for many years into the future.

Finally, it should be added that this project's capacity building achievements were put to the test in 2014 (the project's
final year) when the Ebola outbreak occurred in Guinea. As noted in Section 15 of this Review the project played a
successful role in addressing the Ebola problems - a testament to the efficiency of the capacity building
accomplishments by the project.

On balance the planning and implementation of project investments as well as the overall program of institution
building were moderately efficient and the project's efficiency is therefore rated Modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                        No
     ICR estimate                     No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The relevance of the project's objectives and design were respectively high and substantial. Planning and
implementing inclusive local development activities by rural development communities as well as improved revenue
performance to sustain recurrent costs by rural development communities (RCDs) were both assessed as having
been substantially achieved. The project's efficacy was therefore rated substantial. However, efficiency was rated
modest because there was no quantitative estimate of the project's efficiency nor of the value for money of the
project's activities. Overall the project had moderate shortcomings and its outcome is therefore rated as moderately
satisfactory.
 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   As noted in Section 3b above the PAD outlined considerable operational risks associated with this project. Risks,
such as political fragility and weak socio-economic conditions are expected to persist in the foreseeable future.
Nevertheless, capacity building interventions supported by the project have arguably strengthened Guinea's public
institutions at national and local levels. On the other hand the ICR states that "during a visit to some youth centers in
Labé district, the ICR team noted that the centers lacked water points, which hinders full use of the facilities. The
functionality of some facilities constructed by the project is a major concern as well, because no personnel are
available to run them, a particular problem in education and health facilities" (ICR, para 69). In other words some of
the social infrastructure constructed under the project has no accompanying facilities and staffing. However, the
project team explained that Labe is in an extremely remote area in Guinea. Nevertheless, irrespective of the
improved capacity of government institutions, the evident political fragility (and hence uncertain budgets) and possibly
more cases such as in Labe where project implementation fell short suggest more than moderate risks for the
sustainability of PACV II.

One positive factor that could contribute to the project's sustainability is the potential implementation of the third
phase. The ICR stated that a National Local Development Fund (FNDL) financed by the European Commission and
the Etablissment Public a Cractere Administratif (EPA) were established. Together they will facilitate the
intergovernmental transfer system for recurrent costs of RCDs and were part of the agreed triggers for a third phase
of this project (see ICR, Annex 9). While the ICR provides no information on the status of the third phase, the project
team advised that the project's third phase will be submitted to the Board for approval in FY16.

Overall this Review assesses that the risk of this project being sustained is significant.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
     The ICR noted (paras 21, 22) that the World Bank worked closely with the Government to prepare and design
the project. The design also benefited from a sound sector analysis, undertaken through targeted studies funded
from the Project Preparation Facility. The design was strategically relevant since it was aligned with the
Government’s Lettre de politique de la decentralization, Code des collectivités locales and PRSP as well as the
World Bank CAS/CPS. The team also incorporated valuable lessons from this project's predecessor (PACV I) in
this project's design and, with slight modifications, it maintained the same implementation arrangements. The
design was novel in supporting established local government institutions, with strong control mechanisms at the
CR level, to implement the project’s interventions. Prominent control mechanisms included local procurement
committees, which were tasked with managing procurement and contracts. A training of trainer’s approach built
capacity among the CNC and DND staff fiduciary teams at the regional level. These teams in turn trained and
supervised CR staff. These arrangements contributed to the effectiveness and transparency of implementation at
all levels. The Bank also liaised closely with IFAD and AFD to establish a "basket funding" mechanism to finance
project interventions (ICR, 70 and 71).

Risks associated with the fragile socio-economic and political context and the decentralized design were
adequately recognized and addressed in the PAD's risk rating summary. In the event the high risk of the country
context was born out when the military took over the Government for about two years after the sitting President
died in December, 2008. Nevertheless constitutional democracy was restored. With respect to the risk posed by
weak institutional capacity numerous training programs were designed to address this risk (PAD, Annex 7).

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    One task team leader (TTL) who knew the project very well remained to supervise it for the first six years of
implementation, building and maintaining strong relations with the National Coordinating Unit management and
staff. Supervision missions, which included relevant technical specialists, typically visited Guinea twice a year.
During these missions and at other times supervision teams provided advice on a range of key implementation
issues and maintained good working relationships with Government officials. The Bank project team kept
management informed of implementation progress through systematic reporting in aide-memoires, back-to-office
reports, and Implementation Supervision Reports (ICR, paras 72 and 73).

The ICR noted (para 74) that, despite the suspension of disbursements for about two years, the Bank held regular
video and audio conferences with the CNC to maintain the project's momentum, retain a skeleton staff responsible
for maintaining contact with key stakeholders, and safeguard the project’s assets. The ICR also stated that when
implementation resumed, the Bank responded positively at the mid-term review to the Government’s request to
reallocate funds, scale up implementation, amend some indicators, set more realistic targets, and extend the
closing date.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
     According to the ICR the elected Governments before and after military rule (2009 to 2010) were strongly
committed to achieving the project objectives. They facilitated project preparation and design, met all conditions
for effectiveness, and supported implementation (para 76). However exogenous unstable socio-political
atmosphere significantly affected implementation, but this was not completely under the Government's control.
Nevertheless, following the re-election of a government in 2011 the ICR states that the Government demonstrated
its renewed commitment to the project by regional governors, prefects, sub-prefects, and mayors of CRs showed a
real sense of ownership of the project (para 76). The National Directorate of Decentralization (part of the Ministry
of Territorial Administration and Decentralization) participated intensively in the project's implementation and
worked collaboratively with the National Coordinating Unit (CNC) to implement activities under Component 2 (para
76) . Considering that those actions the elected Government needed to take with respect to the project's
implementation which were under its control were well executed, its performance was satisfactory.

   Government Performance Rating                                Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The CNC was responsible for the implementation of Components 1 and 3, as well as overall project
coordination. It benefitted from its experience and lessons managing PACV I. In the words of the ICR, "the CNC
performed remarkably well". It "maintained good relations with line ministries and all technical and financial
partners, working closely with each of them to address implementation challenges" (para 77). The CNC was
diligent, eventually established a sound M&E system, and continued to work with stakeholders during the two
years when Bank disbursements were suspended (including IFAD which did not suspend disbursements) -
ensuring that the project’s assets were maintained. The performance of the National Directorate of
Decentralization in implementing Component 2, with support from the CNC, improved over time, allowing the
project to achieve its main project development objectives. In conclusion, the performance of the CNC was rated
as satisfactory.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   Design. The PAD stated that the project's M&E system managed by the CNC would focus on results-oriented data
collection to inform decision-making and impact evaluation. It would use participatory M&E methods at all stakeholder
levels to collect information. According to the PAD (para 36) the system would enable beneficiaries and the
Government to: (a) monitor the implementation of social and environmental safeguard policies; (b) monitor and
evaluate achievement of the PDO; (c) evaluate whether the project’s implementation would be sustainable; (d) assess
project impacts on local governance and decision-making; and (e) assess the extent to which project activities
involved and benefited specific groups, namely women, youth, marginalized groups and poorer communities.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The PAD also stated that in Phase I of this program the M&E arrangements were already being revised in order to
simplify their structure and narrow their focus to real-time monitoring of physical and financial execution. The
participatory approach was to be implemented through the prefectural development services (SPD) and the
community development agents (ADL). However, according to the ICR, the Mid Term Review noted that: (a) M&E
was functioning in a limited way at the prefecture level; (b) data collection systems were not integrated at the regional
level; (c) the establishment of a computerized database was delayed in the prefectures; and (e) the participatory M&E
system was delayed in the CRs. The CNC addressed those issues, and by time of the ICR preparation, the project
had established an M&E system in all regions, prefectures, and CRs. Data collection tools had been developed and
made available to all implementing agencies, including the installation of a database in every region, and the M&E
manual had been internalized by the key actors (ICR, para 26).

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The ICR asserted that M&E data informed decision making at all levels and that supervision reports, which focused
on progress in implementing agreed actions and recommendations, were the main instruments used to inform
decision making. It also stated that these reports were extensively discussed at the end of each supervision mission.
Apparently the impact evaluations were widely disseminated through stakeholder workshops (para 29).

On balance, while the M&E system used in the project's first phase needed significant improvement, by the time the
ICR was prepared the M&E system had delivered satisfactory information on the project's achievements.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was classified as category B for environmental issues and this triggered two safeguard policies, namely
Environmental Assessment and Involuntary Resettlement. The ICR recorded that an Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) and a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) were prepared when the project was
designed to mitigate potential environmental and social issues related to land acquisition or negative impacts of the
project on individuals in the project’s intervention areas. These frameworks were aligned with the institutional and
legislative requirements of the country. Various safeguard reports during the implementation of the frameworks
showed no significant environmental and social impacts associated with the implementation of the sub-projects. In
conclusion the project satisfactorily met its safeguard conditions.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management

According to the ICR (para 31) four financial management (FM) issues were identified at Mid Term Review (MTR)
which led to a moderately satisfactory rating of FM performance. The issues were (a) the lack of an internal auditor;
(b) a voluminous FM procedures manual which was difficult for the CRDs to comprehend; (c) the financial accounting
software that did not automatically consolidate financial data; and (e) the capacity of fiduciary staff in the ERAs
(regional support teams) and at the local level needed strengthening. The MTR made recommendations for
improvement which were implemented and the project subsequently operated with a sound FM system based on
decentralized financing of interventions. The last FM supervision mission before the project closed found that the FM
system established by the project was acceptable (ICR, para 31). At the time the ICR was prepared all Interim
Financial Reports had been submitted and the previous year’s audit reports had been received and issued with an
unqualified audit opinion. The target for financial audit performance was fully achieved - namely, at the end of the
project 100 percent of financial audits were unqualified. This reflected, among other things, that the steps taken to
resolve FM performance at the MTR and subsequent FM supervision missions had resolved FM shortcomings.

Procurement

As designed, most procurement activities for the project occurred at the local (CRD/municipality) level. Indeed, as
mentioned in Section 3b of this Review, the project established local procurement committees in all of the beneficiary
CRDs. However, the Bank's disbursement freeze for about two years from the beginning of 2009 resulted in delays
such as the procurement of solar panels and computer equipment which would have been crucial for project
management at all levels. According to the ICR (Annex 2, para 10) the regional support teams (ERAs) conducted a
survey of procurement work conducted by the procurement committees at the CRDs level in 2013 and 2014 which
showed that procurement activities conformed to acceptable procedures and guidelines (98 percent and 100 percent
in 2013 and 2014, respectively). A total of 716 procurement meetings such as meetings to select consulting
engineers) were held at the local level (358 for works and 358 for services). Improved procurement management
was achieved through the training of over 3,500 local officials in community procurement procedures.

The intermediate outcome indicator used to measure procurement performance was percentage of procurement
activities that are carried out according to guidelines; at the end of the project, 100 percent of procurement activities
were carried out according to procurement guidelines. The target was 100 percent.

 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
Employment. The ICR noted that the project created significant additional employment in the beneficiary CRs,
namely 31,648 between 2011 and 2014 in infrastructure construction as well as in the education and health sectors
(education - 3,871 and health - 2,060).

Gender. That NSI survey showed that 20.4 percent of women participated in development planning for their CRs
compared to 35 percent of men. Of the women who participated in the development planning process for their CRs,
14 percent considered that their opinions had been taken into account, compared to 26.3 percent of men. However.
only 23.6 percent of women were in management positions in their CRs.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                   Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Satisfactory         This Review rated Government
                              Satisfactory                                       performance as Satisfactory because,
                                                                                 despite the political unrest during
                                                                                 implementation, the decisions that were
                                                                                 under the Government's control were
                                                                                 well considered and executed.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  The following most important lessons from this project suggested by the ICR are summarized below - with some
editorial adjustments.

    Participatory budgeting , monitoring and evaluation mechanisms at community level ensure real ownership of
     community development and empower communities . When communities are given the requisite tools and
     empowered through subsidiarity to participate in budgeting and monitoring and evaluating progress at the
     community level, they can address many of their own development issues.
    Decentralized institutions for planning and implementing community activities do not necessarily mean that a
     decentralization policy will be adopted in the various sectors of the economy . Hence good practice is to
     define, develop, and implement - in a progressive and participatory manner - a sector-by-sector decentralized
     action plan that results in an integrated and coherent strategy for transferring skills and competencies from the
     center to the decentralized institutions.

    Increasing the tax revenues available to the municipal level institutions is not simply the result of establishing
     market infrastructure or implementing income -generating activities ; it also depends on the development of
     civil society and good governance at the local level . Good governance of tax returns will result in citizens
     becoming more involved in and committed to local tax and non-tax resource mobilization.

This Review suggests the following additional lessons

    Good governance is crucial for successful project implementation and can overcome periodic political
     instability. This project showed that even under the stress of political instability a government can make
     important decisions that are within its powers.

    Well planned and intensive training programs can have significant positive impacts on the competence of
     governments. However, training programs need to be systematically evaluated to ensure their relevance and
     the sustainability of benefits.


14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR was candid and comprehensive. There were, however, some weaknesses.

Repetitiveness. The main text was repetitive in numerous places such as in Section 3.2 (Achievements of the PDO).

Incomplete Annex 1. Some important information was missing in Annex 1. It only recorded IDA contributions to the
project costs. However, the missing data were quickly provided by the project team.

Analysis of Efficiency . The ICR's section on efficiency was weak partly because it mainly repeated the weak
assessment of efficiency in the PAD. It could have provided a qualitative analysis of the efficiency of capacity
building including an assessment of the comprehensive training program. The ICR could also have commented on
the efficiency of the overhead costs for the project (management, monitoring and evaluation) which rose dramatically
during implementation compared with the estimated costs at appraisal. As noted in Section 5 of this Review, the
project team provided useful additional information on these costs which explained the apparent large increase in
management costs compared to the estimate at appraisal.

Ebola. By January 2014 Ebola was a substantial health threat in Guinea. However, despite the fact that the project
still had a year to run before completion, the ICR made no mention of this catastrophic disease and the possible role
the project might have played in addressing the very challenging problems faced by the country's health services.
The project team responded as follows:

     "It was perhaps an oversight not to mention the Ebola crisis. The coup/political problems, and resulting
     disbursement freeze, had a much larger impact on PACV II implementation than the Ebola crisis which came in
     the final year of implementation. The following points can be made.

     First, due to its expertise and known capacity, the PCU of the PACV II was tapped by the government / donors to
     oversee the management of the emergency funds mobilized by the WBG to fight Ebola in Guinea (it did this for 6
     months until a dedicated project unit was established).

     Second, in the CRDs directly affected by Ebola, PACV II activities were slowed down because some field agents
     left their posts during the initial outbreak of the disease and some of the SME’s under contract for the civil works
     also withdrew from those areas initially. This was only for a short period; once information on the disease was
     better known, key actors quickly resumed their activities.
    Finally, the PACV II introduced sensitization activities on how the disease spreads, for the safety of project field
    staff and local communities. During the Ebola outbreak, the project also ensured that an up-to-date health
    worker from the Ministry of Health was associated with any community-level meeting to raise awareness."

Overall however the quality of the ICR is rated as satisfactory.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
