OFFICIAL           H32 q- CA'
af                                 DOCUMENTS
AGENCE FRANCAISE
SDEVELOPPEMENT
Dear Sirs,
Re: REPUBLIC OF GUINEA: AFD Grant No. CGN 3000 01 F
Village Communities Support Project -Phase II
1. I refer to the International Development Association as "the Association".
2. I also refer to the Village Communities Support Project - Phase II (the "Project")
which is to be partly financed by a grant from the French Development Agency
("AFD") under an Agreement between the Republic of Guinea (the "Recipient") and
the AFD dated 12 July 2013 ("AFD Grant Agreement"). The Project is also partly
financed by a grant from the Association ("the IDA Grant") under an IDA Financing
Agreement dated 20 September 2007 ("the IDA Financing Agreement"), as well as from
the International Fund for Agricultural Development (the "Fund") under an Agreement
between the Recipient and the Fund dated 4 October 2007. . Copies of the AFD Grant
Agreement have been furnished to you under separate cover.
3. For the purpose of the Project, and with the agreement of the Recipient, AFD hereby
appoints the Association to act as the Cooperating Institution responsible for the fiduciary
and procurement aspects, as set forth in Sections 3.2 and 6.4 of the AFD Grant
Agreement, subject to and in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions on
which the AFD provides financing for the Project. The project will also follow the IDA
social and environmental policy requirements as set forth in Section 6.9 of the AFD
Grant Agreement. The technical aspects of the Project will be jointly supervised. The
Association hereby accepts such appointment.
4. The AFD and the Association shall fully cooperate to ensure an effective
coordination of their respective actions in connection with, and the achievement of, the
purposes of the AFD Grant and the IDA Grant. To this end, inter alia:
(a)    AFD and the Association shall promptly inform each other and exchange
views whenever either one of them proposes to:
(i)   to modify materially their respective Agreement; or
(ii)  to take any action under their respective Agreements.
1/3


﻿afU
AGENCE FRANCAISE      (b)    notwithstanding sub-paragraph (a), above, AFD and the Association shall
o DEVELOPPEMENT              retain their independent right of decision and action under their respective
Agreements with respect to any such matter;
(c)    on request from the AFD, the Association shall furnish to AFD reports on
the execution of the Project (e.g. Audit reports); and
(d)    AFD and the Association shall promptly inform each other of any
suspension or cancellation of the AFD Grant or the IDA Grant.
5. The Association shall administer all procurement financed from the proceeds of the
AFD Grant, in accordance with Schedule 2, Section III of the Association's Financing
Agreement dated 20 September 2007 (Grant Number H329-GUI), and amended June
22, 2012.
6. (a) The Association shall process each application for withdrawal from the AFD
Financing submitted by the Recipient to the Association to determine the amounts
which the Recipient is entitled to withdraw from the AFD Grant in conformity with the
relevant provision(s) of the AFD Grant Agreement.
(i) where such application is for the withdrawal of funds from both the AFD Grant
and the IDA Grant, the Association shall apportion the withdrawals from the AFD Grant
and the IDA Grant as nearly as practicable in the circumstances between the AFD Grant
and the IDA Grant in the ratio as defined in the disbursement letter.
(ii) The Association shall promptly advise AFD of the amount which the
Recipient is entitled to withdraw from the AFD Grant. AFD shall make appropriate
arrangements to make the necessary payments of such amounts.
(b) From time to time, AFD shall inform the Association of the amounts available for
withdrawal from the AFD Grant.
7. AFD hereby authorizes the Association to enter into special commitments, on
behalf and for the account of AFD, to pay amounts out of the proceeds of the AFD's
Grant in respect of the cost of goods or services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the AFD Grant. Any such special commitment shall, once it has been
notified to AFD, constitute an obligation on the part of AFD to pay, notwithstanding
any subsequent suspension or cancellation of the AFD Grant, the amount to be disbursed
out of the proceeds of the AFD Grant in fulfillment of such special commitment.
8. The AFD and the Association shall each be entitled to terminate this appointment
at any time by written notice to the other party, whereupon this appointment shall
terminate six months after the date of such notice.
2/3


﻿*afU,
AGENCE FRANCAISE
SDEVELOPPEMENT
9. This Letter of Appointment shall enter retroactively into full force and effect on 1
September 2013.
10. Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing the two copies of this
Letter and returning one signed original to AFD for its records. Additionally, once
countersigned, please send copies of this Letter to the Recipient and the Lead Project
Agency as set forth on the first page of this Letter.
Yours sincerely,
FRENCH DEVELOPMENT
AGENCY
o   Head of the    culture, Rural
6             Development nd Biodiversity
,r oj  Division
J c FRANCOIS
CONFIRMED:
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOC               ON
Authorized Representative
Q) Directeur des' 0
Date:                       EDO                       O   aons3/
3/3


