Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Rert No. 12891
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANKAR
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
(CREDIT 1381-BA)
MARCH 29, 1994
Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVATNT
(Kyats pirUS
YEAR                           EXCHANGE RATE
1982 - 83                              7.70
1983 - 84                               7.95
1984- 85                                8.25
1985 - 86                               8.45
1986 - 87                              7.48
1987 - 88                              6.78
1988 - 89                               6.35
1989 - 90                               6.60
1990 - 91                               6.45
1991 - 92                               6.01
1992 - 93                               6.24
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(FPS System)
ac.         =     acres
cyd         =      cubic yards
metric ton        =     1000 Kg. (2205 pounds)
long ton        =      2240 pounds
ft.        =      feet
1 cusec        =      28.3 litres/sec
viss         =     Measure for Cotton, Chillies and Onions
basket         =     Measure for Wheat, Paddy, Groundnuts,
Sesame and Pulses
ABBREVIATIOS and ACRONYMS
AC             -            Agricultural Corporation
CCA            -            Cultivable Command Area
EPC            -            Electric Power Corporation
ERR            -            Economic Rate of Return
GOM            -            Government of Myanmar
HYV            -            High Yielding Variety
ID             -            Irrigation Department
MAF            -            Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MAS            -            Myanma Agriculture Service
M&E            -            Monitoring and Evaluation
O&M            -            Operation and Maintenance
PCR            -            Project Completion Report
PSC            -            Project Steering Committee
SAR            -            Staff Appraisal Report
SMS            -            Subject Matter Specialist
TOR            -            Terms of Reference
UNDP           -            United Nations Development Program
VEM            -            Village Extension Manager
V'EM           -            Village Tract Extension Manager
WUG            -            Water User Group



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                    March 29, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THlE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Myanmar
Groundwater Irrigation Project I (Credit 1381-BA)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Myanmar - Groundwater Irrigation Project
(Credit 1381-BA). Parts I and III were prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. No
comments have been received from the Borrower.
The project was a first attempt in Myanmar to expand irrigation on a substantial scale
through the use of groundwater resources. About 20,000 hectares were developed, using 120
tubewells. The project included the provision of electric power to these tubewells, irrigation and
drainage channels, the development of extension and research services and provision of input
supplies. The early stages of the project were dogged by preparation/appraisal deficiencies. Complex
procurement procedures resulted in equipment and supplies being delayed and received in the wrong
sequence, and basic soil and groundwater data were inadequate. The project was extended by three
years and its physical objectives were then attained.
Water users' groups were established to operate the individual systems, but they remain
dependent on official support. Institutional development is judged to have been modest. The ERR
was re-estimated at 10 percent compared to 22 percent at appraisal, due-to implementation delays, and
to slower uptake of irrigation, and higher value (but more risky), crops by farmers. Use of irrigation
continues to expand and sustainability is considered likely. Overall, the project outcome is considered
marginally satisfactory.
The completion report provides an adequate account of project implementation. No
audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distrlbution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I (Credit 1381 -BA)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface   .............................................................                 i
Evaluation Surnary   ..........................    ....................................   iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Project Identity.                                                                   1
2. Background.                                                                          1
3.    Project Objectives and Description.                                              2
4.   Project Design and Organization.                                                   2
5.  Project Implementation.                                                            3
6.  Project Results.                                                                   9
7.  Project Sustainability .10
8.  IDA Performance .10
9.  Borrower Performance .11
10.  Project Relationships .12
11.  Consultant Services .12
12.  Project Documentation and Data .12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  .........   13
PART IU: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1.    Related Bank Credits .14
Table 2.    Project Timetable .15
Table 3.         Credit Disbursements .16
Table 4.         Project Implementation
A - Project Components .17
B - Status of TubeweU systems .18
C - Additional Equipment and Spares Procured            19
Table 5.         Project Costs and Financing
A - Project Costs.                                      20
B - Project Financing.                                  21
Table 6.         Project Results
A - Direct Benefits .22
B - Economic Impact .23
C - Financial Impact   ....................................   24
D - Technical Assistance and Training .24
Table 7.    Status of Covenants .25
Table 8.         Use of Bank Resources
A - Staff Inputs .26
B - Bank Missions  ....... ................................   27
Annex 1 - Project Irrigation Performnnce  ................ ......................   28
Annex 2 - Project Results  ......................................................    32
Maps             IBRD 16852R1
IBRD 16853R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
CREDIT 1381 - BA
Preface
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews implementation of the Groundwater
Irrigation Project I in Myanmar for which Credit 1381-BA in the amount of US$ 14.0 million
was approved on June 7, 1983. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1992 and is fully disbursed.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and Im of this Report were prepared by a
staff member of the Environment and Sustainable Development Division of Asia Technical
Department (ASTEN), and were reviewed by the Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations
Division, Country Department I, East Asia & Pacific Regional Office.
The Borrower was requested to prepare a PCR in March 1992, to be available to the
Association (IDA) in October 1992, but none was received. Preparation of this PCR is based
on, inter alia, the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4323-BA dated May 16, 1983), the President's
Report, No. P 3576-BA dated May 18, 1983), the Development Credit Agreement, dated July
18, 1983, IDA supervision reports, correspondence between the IDA and the Borrower, and
other internal documentation available within the World Bank. The staff member responsible for
the preparation of the PCR visited the project area in March/April 1993.






iii
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
CREDIT 1381 - BA
Evaluation Summary
1.   Introduction. In the central dry zone of Myanmar, lack of reliable irrigation water had long been
identified as the dominant constraint to increasing agricultural production. Surface irrigation potential
was limited and large seasonal fluctuations in river levels made pump irrigation schemes costly and
technically difficult. In the absence of a reliable and economic source of surface water, groundwater was
considered to be the best alternative. Country wide reconnaissance studies selected four areas with
groundwater potential for irrigated agriculture covering some 1.1 million acres for more detailed surveys.
Thus, the project covered by this PCR was the first groundwater irrigation development financed by IDA
and was expected to play an significant role in expanding the irrigation subsector, through crop
diversification and improvement of the regional balance in Myanmar's future agricultural development.
2.    Objectives. The main objective was to increase crop production and farm incomes by expanding
the irrigated area from an existing 2,000 acres in 1983 to about 20,000 acres at project completion in
1989 through development of groundwater resources. A second objective was to strengthen the
capability and inter-agency coordination of the institutions involved. Although not explicitly stated in the
Appraisal Report, it was assumed that the project would be the first of a series of groundwater
development operations using electrical power supply. Lessons learned and institutional strengthening
were expected to have important benefits beyond the project area as the groundwater development
program expanded.
3.    Implementation Experience. The project became effective in October 1983 but virtually no
progress was made until early 1987. The project was therefore only under effective implementation for
about five years with the Credit closing date extended for three years until June 30, 1992. Once the start-
up problems were resolved, the components were generally implemented to satisfactory standards and the
institutions performed to be best of their ability given the uncertain country circumstances through the
project period.
4.    The main reason for slow start-up was the delayed and unpredictable delivery of equipment and
materials due to complex and bureaucratic procurement procedures. As a consequence, the work
program was undertaken in the wrong sequence with a negative impact on planning and design for most
project components. For example, irrigation civil works were constructed before the quality and quantity
of the groundwater and soils were established. In addition, the consultant services had limited benefit,
because their terms of reference focused on irrigated agriculture on the assumption that many tubewells
would be operational during the contracted period. Fortunately, except for problems related to siting of
some tubewells, the various start-up delays tended to cancel each other out for most components.
5.    By mid 1988, most procurement problems were resolved and shortage of fuel and lubricants was
addressed through a bulk import arrangement for all IDA supported projects. By early 1989, progress
had improved sufficiently to justify an extension of the Credit closing date to June 30, 1989. The closing
date was further extended until June 30, 1992, since there was no reason to terminate the Credit given the
good progress made in the previous year. In fact, about 75 percent of the useful project activities were
completed after the original Credit closing date. Other reasons for extending the Credit closing were to:
(a) expand the scope by about 15 percent (using cost savings) to more fully develop the groundwater and
land resources in the project area; (b) consolidate the lessons learned under the first project and to provide
continuing work program for the staff with specialized experience in groundwater development; and (c)
give more attention to O&M arrangements and project sustainability.



iv
6.    Results. The ERR re-estimated for the PCR is about 10 percent compared to 22.0 percent at
appraisal. The shortfall in ERR compared to appraisal reflects: (a) serious delays in project
implementation; (b) slower than expected response by farmers to irrigation; and (c) shortcomings in the
planning and design. However, the PCR analysis is conservative in the assumptions that: (a) irrigation
intensity at full development will be about 125 percent compared to 150 percent predicted at appraisal; (b)
some 7 percent of the tubewells will not be fully operational because of poor water quality and soils, or
for technical reasons; and (c) farmers will continue to put about 40 percent of the irrigated area to irrigated
sesame, giving low returns but minimizing their risks. In addition, the PCR analysis does not fully
reflect the recent farmers' response to the incentives created by opening free markets for agricultural
produce and thus more fully utilize the irrigation service.
7.    Sustainability. The tubewell systems have been effectively turned over to the water-user groups
with limited technical support and back-up from the Irrigation Department and Agricultural Services
through their local offices. However, long term, project tubewells may be difficult to maintain because
most equipment was imported from a wide variety of sources. To the extent possible under the Credit,
preventive maintenance action has been taken by procuring about five years worth of spare parts for
mechanical and electrical equipment. The electrical power network should be sustainable and there is
considerable operational flexibility to accommodate any power shortages by extending the daily running
hours to include night irrigation.
8.    Findings and Lessons Learned. IDA had reason to assume that the project would be successful
given the four year "pilot phase" (preparation) sub-project under UNDP. With hindsight, although the
"pilot phase" produced some useful data for the project, the result was a feasibility study and should have
been treated as such since the project area was evaluated to little more than reconnaissance level.
Shortcomings, which emerged as the project moved to the implementation phase, included: (a)
insufficient study of physical resources (soils, groundwater topography, etc.); (b) unproven assumptions
on irrigation and on-farm water management; and (c) an assumed farmers' response to groundwater
irrigation which had not been demonstrated. Furthermore, project performance depended on GOM taking
hard policy decisions on sensitive issues related institutional strengthening, full budget provision for
recurrent expenditures, and basic improvements to procurement and other administrative procedures. The
rapid appraisal of the project following the "pilot phase" subproject indicated that the Bank did not fully
identify the potential risks in the first 'project scale' operation to develop groundwater.
9.    IDA supervision perforrmance was generally satisfactory, but lack of focus on key issues earlier in
the project period allowed many problems to develop unchecked with the project seriously diverted from
the work program envisaged at appraisal.
10.   The lessons to be learned by the Borrower and agencies involved relate to improvements in:
(a) procurement procedures; (b) institutional capability, responsibility, accountability and coordination;
(c) the use of technical assistance; (d) quality control of planning and design and appropriateness of the
technology; (e) O&M of completed tubewell schemes; and (f) monitoring and reporting. A fundamental
lesson to be learned by GOM is that diagnostic analysis of planning, design and implementation must be
undertaken if the project is a new initiative in a sector and similar new investments are to benefit from the
lessons to be learned.
11.   Conclusion. The project should perform at full development as predicted at appraisal. The many
challenges, particularly in the mid 1980's, resulted from difficult country circumstances in Myanmar, and
were unpredictable at the time of appraisal. Many problems which caused or compounded the start-up
delays, could not be addressed under the project since they were national or sectoral issues, particularly
those related to institutional capability and Government procedures such as procurement. One
discouraging outcome has been that GOM has still to recognize fully the importance of the many lessons
to be learned, not only for this project but for the overall irrigation subsector. It is concluded that GOM
needs to take strong actions to ensure that the full developmental impact from this project is obtained as
quickly as possible. It is also concluded that the project has performed well enough for GOM to consider
continuing its program to develop its groundwater resources.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I (CREDIT 1381 -BA)
PART 1. PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Proiect Identity
Project Name:      Groundwater Irrigation Project I
Credit No.         1381 - BA
RVP Unit           East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
Country      :     Myanmar
Sector       :     Agriculture
Subsector    :     Irrigation
2.    Background
2.1   In the 1960's and early 1970's, the value added in agriculture rose only about 1.6 percent per
annum, well below the prevailing population growth rate of about 2.2 percent per annum. As a result,
the rice export surplus declined to less than 200,000 tons compared to more than 3.0 million tons pre-
war. This unsatisfactory performance was attributed mainly to: unsettling changes in land policy;
inadequate farmer incentives; and the initial failure of imported high yielding varieties (HYVs). Faced
with this situation, the Government of Myanmar (GOM) responded with a series of policy reforms
designed to improve farmer incentives and provide flexibility in the agricultural sector including: increase
in crop procurement prices; reduction in mandatory procurement quotas; and decontrol of certain
commodities. In addition, there were also a major tax and exchange reform and GOM also became more
willing to accept foreign assistance, enabling more investment in irrigated agriculture. In this respect,
expansion of irrigated agriculture was given high priority. While irrigation had been an important feature
in Myanmar for centuries, in 1981/82 the total irrigated area of some 2.6 million acres was only about 10
percent of the total cultivated area. During the 1980's, the Association (IDA) supported projects
developed about 150, 000 acres of new irrigation and rehabilitated some 95, 000 acres served by existing
irrigation schemes.
2.2   In the central dry zone of Myanmar, lack of reliable irrigation water had long been identified as the
dominant constraint to increasing agricultural production. Surface irrigation potential was limited and
large seasonal fluctuations in river levels made pump irrigation schemes costly and technically difficult.
In the absence of a reliable and economic source of surface water, groundwater was considered to be the
best alternative. However, prior to the early 1970's, groundwater development has been restricted to
private sector development of limited areas with shallow water tables which could be exploited either
manually, or by simple pump sets, from open well or shallow boreholes. Government recognized that to
more fully exploit the groundwater irrigation potential, deep tubewells were necessary. Thus, the
proposed project was expected to play an significant role in expanding the irrigation subsector, through
crop diversification and the improvement of the regional balance in Myanmar's future agricultural
development.
2.3   Project Preparation. A World Bank Agricultural Sector Mission in 1977 reported that suitable
conditions for groundwater development existed in some areas of the central dry zone of Myanmar. On
these recommendations, GOM, UNDP and IDA decided in 1978 to include a Groundwater Exploration
and Pilot Development Sub-project (the "pilot phase") under the UNDP (Myanmar) Umbrella Project, for
which the Bank was the executing agency. A specific objective was to increase Myanmar's experience in
large scale groundwater development with the Irrigation Department (ID) designated to carry out a "pilot
phase" with the assistance of consultant services.
2.4   As a result of country wide reconnaissance studies, four areas with sufficient groundwater
potential for irrigated agriculture covering some 1.1 million acres were selected for more detailed surveys.
Three areas were located in the dry zone of Myanmar and one in the intermediate rainfall zone. Work



started on the "pilot phase" in 1978 and continued through December 1983. The program included
groundwater resource surveys using some 86 exploration boreholes, of which 50 were converted into
diesel driven production wells ranging from 0.5 to 2.0 cusecs (serving command areas of some 25 to 150
acres per well).
2.5   It was assumed that GOM would progressively develop the areas with groundwater potential
identified under the "pilot phase" sub-project through a series of groundwater irrigation operations of
which the project under review was the first. One of the four areas delineated under the "pilot phase"
investigations was in Sagaing Division near Monywa (see Map IBRD 16582R). This was selecteci for
the first IDA-supported project because: (a) there was contiguous area with sufficient groundwater
resources for large scale irrigation development and relatively easy access to a reliable electrical power
supply; and (b) some 25 pilot production wells serving about 2,000 acres had been completed. The "pilot
phase" consultants submitted a draft Feasibility Report in August 1982 which formed the basic of the
project appraisal in September 1982 (para 4.1).
3.    Project Obiectives and Description
3.1   The main project objective was to increase crop production and farm incomes by expanding the
irrigated area from an existing 2,000 acres in 1983 to about 20,000 acres I/ at project completion in 1989
through development of groundwater resources. A second objective was to strengthen the capability and
inter-agency coordination of the institutions involved. Although not explicitly stated in the Appraisal
Report, it was assumed that the project would be the first of a series of groundwater development
operations using electrical power supply and that lessons learned and institutional strengthening would
have important benefits beyond the project area 2/ as groundwater development in Myanmar expanded.
3.2    At appraisal, the project had six components: (a) construction of some 106 new deep tubewells
including provision of pumping equipment and pumphouses; (b) construction of irrigation and drainage
systems for the new tubewells; (c) construction of a power distribution system from an existing 33 kV
line to the new tubewells and to the 25 existing diesel driven tubewells; (d) provision of agricultural
support including extension and applied research; (e) provision of fertilizers and chemicals; (f) technical
assistance and training; and (g) support of monitoring and evaluation activities. With respect to item (a),
the number of new tubewells was increased in 1990 from 106 to 120 and related project components
expanded accordingly. In addition, in response to the country-wide shortage of fuel, a new component
was added in 1988 to procure petroleum products sufficient for all on-going project activities (para 5.3).
The project also supported operation and maintenance (O&M) activities during the construction phase
(para 1.28).
4.    Project Design and Organization.
4.1    Project Design. The project appraisal benefited from the four years of experience gained from the
"pilot phase" (para 2.3) with the comprehensive Feasibility Report submitted to IDA in August 1982.
The World Bank's confidence in the status of project preparation was reflected by the almost immediate
departure of the appraisal mission in September 1983. This timing was to maintain the momentum of
the"pilot phase" and enable the appraisal rnission to discuss the feasibility study with the "pilot phase"
consultants whose key staff remained in Myanmar until December 1983.
4.2    Although the "pilot phase" produced a useful data base for the project, it was prepared as a
feasibility study and should have been treated as such. The four areas for potential groundwater
development (including the project area) had only been identified to reconnaissance level and appeared to
1/   The existing irrigated area was served by the 25 "pilot phase" production wel  The proposed development was
expected to reduce rainfed crop producion on the surrounding area since farms are fragmented and most farmers
owned land inside and outside the proposed irrigated area. it was assumed that farmers would give up some rainfed
agriculture as they concentrated on new irrigated areas and would also take some 2,000 acres out of production to
provide the right-of-way for irrigation infrastructure.
2/   All supervision missions until about 1988 used resources for the identification of a possible follow-up project and
UNDP funds were sought to update the Oroundwater Irrigation 11 preparation report.



accept the technical and institutional assumptions in the feasibility study without detailed evaluation.
Shortcomings resulting from lack of detailed preparation emerged as the project moved to the
implementation stage. These included: (a) insufficient detail on physical resources (soils, groundwater
topography, etc.); (b) unproven assumptions on irrigation and water management efficiency; and (c) an
assumed developmental impact in groundwater irrigated areas which had not been demonstrated.
4.3   In addition, the appraisal generally underestimated the institutional risks inherent in moving from
a pilot activity to a large scale operation and the challenges associated with: (a) electrification of the
project tubewells for the first time in Myanmar, (b) inter-agency coordination; and (c) the practicality of
delivering a work program (to a tight schedule) given the procurement procedures in Myanmar. None of
these issues had to be tackled in detail under the "pilot phase" sub-project. Finally, the appraisal (and the
project) could have taken more advantage of lessons learned from other World Bank-supported
groundwater irrigation projects, particularly in India 1J, which were, at the time of appraisal,
demonstrating improved and innovative technologies.
4.4   The project period of five years seemed reasonable given the apparent experience gained under the
"pilot phase" and that some 48 tubewell sites had already been selected in the project area with detailed
surveys completed on 24 sites. However, a critical assumption in the implementation schedule was that
procurement of materials and equipment under many separate small contracts would be achieved, as
predicted in a detailed annex of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). In addition, the appraisal did not
recognize the growing shortage of petroleum products and imported construction materials in Myanmar,
although these constraints had already been identified as serious problems on other IDA supported
projects. Finally, it was optimistically assumed that the Electric Power Corporation (EPC) would: (a)
enter into a working agreement with the ID prior to Credit effectiveness; (b) finalize the detailed design
for the power supply system in the first year; and (c) commence major construction of the power supply
network during the second year with the first new tubewells to be commissioned before the dry season of
the third year (para 5.8).
4.5   Proiect Organization. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF) had overall responsibility
for project implementation. The main implementing agencies were: (a) the Irigation Department (ID) for
exploration and development of groundwater resources; (b) the Agricultural Corporation (AC) for related
extension and adaptive research; and (c) the Electric Power Corporation (EPC) for the construction and
operation and maintenance (O&M) of the power distribution system. A Project Steering Committee
(PSC) was responsible for project coordination with representatives from the Planning and Statistics
Department of MAF, Settlement and Land Record Department and the Ministry of Planning and Finance
(in addition to the main implementing agencies). Other agencies associated with the project were the
Myanmar Agricultural Bank, the Textile Industries Corporation, the Food Industries Corporation, and the
Agriculture and Farm Produce Trade Corporation.
4.6    Groundwater irrigation development was undertaken by three ID Divisions (Drilling, Civil and
Mechanical Engineering) which were respectively responsible for: (a) hydrogeological investigations,
drilling, and well construction and testing; (b) design and construction of irrigation and drainage systems
and on-farm development; (c) and mechanical engineering and workshops. Appointment of the Project
Director and Executive Engineers for each of the three key Divisions was a condition of Credit
effectiveness. The AC was responsible for: (a) construction of six crop production camps; (b) project
adaptive research; (c) procurement of fertilizers and chernicals; and (d) strengthening of agricultural
extension. The EPC was responsible for construction and O&M of the power distribution system (as a
Sub-contractor to the ID which procured equipment and materials according EPC specifications). A
project Electrical Engineering unit was set up in the ID to undertake their responsibilities related to the
power supply component.
5. Project Implementation
5.1    General. The project became effective in October 1983, but virtually no progress was made
during the first three years until the project took off early in 1987. The project was only therefore
1/  INDIA - Second Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project, SAR, Report No. 4167-IN, February 24, 1983.



effectively under implementation for about five years with the Credit closing date extended for three years
until June 1992. Once the start-up problems were resolved, components were generally implemented to
satisfactory standards and the institutions involved performed to be best of their ability given the uncertain
country circumstances throughout the project period.
5.2   The main reason for the slow start-up was the delayed and unpredictable delivery of equipment
and materials due to complex and bureaucratic procurement procedures (para 5.25). As a consequence,
the work program was undertaken in the wrong sequence with a negative impact on the planning and
design for most project components. For exaunple, irrigation civil works were constructed before the
quality and quantity of groundwater and soils were established and the consultant services had little
impact because their terms of reference assumed that many tubewells would be operational during their
contracted period (para 1 1. 1). Nonetheless, except for problems related to siting of individual tubewells,
the start-up delays tended to cancel each other out for most components.
5.3   By mid 1988, most procurement problems were resolved and shortage of fuel and lubricants was
addressed through a bul.k import arrangement for all IDA supported projects. By early 1989, progress
had improved sufficiently to justify extending the Credit closing date by one year to June 30, 1989. The
closing date was further extended until June 30, 1992, since there was no reason to terminate the Credit
and the benefits gained from the good progress made since 1987. In fact, about 65 percent of the useful
project works were completed after the original Credit closing date. Another reason for extending the
Credit closing date were to expand the project scope (using cost savings) to more fully develop the
groundwater and land resources in the project area. In addition, the project concept assumed that there
would be a second groundwater irrigation project which would strongly benefit from lessons learned
under the first project. The Credit extensions provided continuity of work for the staff with special
experience in groundwater development.
5.4   Planning and Design. Planning and detailed design of project works was virtually complete
before the first electrified tubewell systems were commissioned. This meant that there was little
opportunity to monitor operational tubewell systems and incorporate lessons learned as the project
progressed. It is concluded that improvements could have been made to all project infrastructure,
particularly the detailed design of irrigation distribution systems. Furthermore, insufficient consideration
was given to future expansion of the project area in the spatial layout of the well points. Similarly, the 11
kV electric transrmission lines were not specifically designed to accommodate future expansion of the well
field or access for other users (para 5.8). As yet, the project planning and design process have not been
fully evaluated to establish what lessons learned could apply to future groundwater development both in
the project area and elsewhere in Myanmar.
5.5   Well points. The critical activity and main expenditure items under the project were the siting and
construction of individual tubewells. Although site selection criteria and implementation procedures were
carefully described in the SAR, these could not be followed. Unfortunately, the sequence in which
technical decisions had to be made to site well points depended on all the equipment, materials and
institutional resources being available in a timely manner. Thus, to undertake the efficient drilling
program required, inter alia: experienced specialist staff; operational drilling rigs with reliable fuel
supplies; availability of consumable spares such as drilling bits and drilling materials; ancillary equipment;
and materials including casing and screens to make the boreholes. The procurement arrangements meant
the coordination of at least six key and separate contracts to enable drilling to progress to schedule. This
drilling package was not put together until early 1986 and then work was delayed because of shortage of
essential consumable items, the most important of which was fuel. As a result, in the first year only four
tubewells were completed using surplus materials purchased under the "pilot phase" (para 2.5). The
drilling program was then stopped for about a year until the items procured for the project started to
arrive. Once sufficient materials arrived to commence the program about July 1986, it was then
recognized that there would be a shortage of drilling capacity (compounded by the breakdown of a rig) if
the project was to be completed on schedule. This problem was overcome in April 1987 by unexpected
assistance from the Australian Bilateral Assistance Prograrn which arranged transfer to the project of four
surplus drilling rigs originally purchased for a deep tubewell project in Bangladesh.



-5-
5.6    Once the drilling program finally got underway, good progress was made. Unfortunately,
although well construction was efficient and generally of good quality, the tubewell locations were
already fixed by the layout of the completed irrigation systems (para 5.7) and the agreed site selection
procedures could not be followed. The problem was not just the siting of each individual well point, but
that hydrological data obtained during the drilling of wells could not be used to improve the layout of the
project well fields and alignment of the electrical power network. As a result, 8 tubewells had to be re-
sited once the water quality was tested and the irrigation systems abandoned and at least 8 operational
tubewells cannot be utilized because of very poor water quality or poor soils. Shortcutting the siting
criteria and procedures because of procurement delays has compounded the technical problems and added
to project costs. Nonetheless, the ID has learned an important lesson related to program scheduling
should it consider further groundwater development in Myanmar.
5.7   Irrigation Systems. In spite of the drilling program delays, the project started construction of
irrigation systems for selected tubewell sites, primarily to keep the civil works staff occupied.  An
attempt was made to reduce the design risks (related to quantity or quality of groundwater resources) by
only building part of the irrigation distribution systems. This precaution had little impact and most
irrigation and drainage systems were completed (99 out of 106 units) in advance of developing and
testing the well points. This resulted in almost all irrigation systems being completed before physical
resource data was collected to confirm the design assumptions. Well points were sited on the basis of
hydrogeological and soil data collected at the investigation stage and there was no water supply to test
completed layouts. The command layouts were made as symmetrical as possible with equally spaced
laterals (i.e., following an idealized layout given in the "pilot phase" feasibility studies). The irrigation
channels were also designed to standard sections and slopes which were not always varied to reflect local
topography, or the actual well discharge (since this could not be measured). By the time these design
problems were recognized when the first tubewells became operational in December 1987, there were few
remaining well sites to be selected. Furthermore, even when wells could be tested, there were
insufficient resources and skilled staff to undertake the testing of hyrogeological and soil quality
determinants. Another problem which may cause problems as tubewell utilization increases is that the
irrigation operating principles were not fully decided when the layout designs were finalized and water
user groups (para 5.18) were set up. Aside from the design problems, the small lined canals and earth
laterals were generally constructed to satisfactory standards. However, before they finally became
operational, many systems needed remedial work, particularly drainage, because they had been finished
and left unutilized for an extended period of time.
5.8   Power Distribution System. The main difference between the "pilot phase" and the project was
the adoption of electrical rather than diesel power supply for wells because of serious fuel shortages.
Thus, the project area was divided into four clusters of wells (some 29 to 35 wells per cluster) each
served by a dedicated 1 1 kV power line from a separate 33/11 kV substation. The original design
assumed that each 11 kV line would have a 'ring' configuration so that each well could receive power
from two directions if a power line failed. During the implementation phase, the 'ring' concept was
dropped for Rings 1 and 2 and replaced by separate lines from the sub-stations. Although power lines
were dedicated to the project, there was spare capacity for further development of new wells and for other
potential consumers near the project wells, particularly for community and public village buildings.
However, use of this spare capacity was restricted because the lines were laid out before the groundwater
resource surveys were completed. Nonetheless, this spare capacity did enable some 14 additional
tubewells to be built under the project, but rural electrification potential was never exploited.
5.9   There was an 18 month delay before the EPC and ID entered into an agreement on their respective
project roles (even though the need for an agreement was discussed and minuted at negotiations). As a
consequence, it was not until December 1987 that the first 30 wells (on Ring 2) were energized with the
delay primarily due to slow procurement of the many separate items needed for the electrical networks.
Connector wire, substation equipment, transformers, lighting arrestors, poles, tubewell electrical
equipment, etc. were all procured separately although all items had to be present on site for power
distribution lines to be completed. The electrification program was finally completed early in 1991 and
became another important reason for extensions of the Credit closing date. Generally the quality of
construction of substations and the 33kV and 1 kV power lines has been acceptable and performance
satisfactory to date. If the implementation schedule set at appraisal had been followed, the design of the
electrification works could probably been improved with some cost savings.



- 6 -
5.10 Agricultural Support. The main agricultural challenge was to help farmers in the transition from
rainfed to irrigated agriculture. Project support was through specialized extension services, crop
demonstrations, adaptive research programs, and provision of fertilizers and other agricultural inputs.
The technical assistance component was primarily designed to support irrigated agricultural support
activities (para 1 1.1) but was less than successful because the consultant services were essentially
completed before the first electrified tubewells became operational. The appraisal assumption that the 25
existing tubewells (constructed under the "pilot phase") would provide an opportunity to undertake
agricultural support activities did not work out because their irrigation service was unpredictable. The
consultants prepared a detailed guideline for land levelling, but these were never fully tested because of
the late arrival of agricultural equipment and lack of fuel. As a result, few fields were effectively levelled
under the project. The crop diversification objectives were partly achieved with a few new crop varieties
introduced and tested at the three research farms. A series of trials for various crops produced some
useful results, but many experiments and studies remained inconclusive or incomplete. The main
problem was lack of interest in monitoring and evaluation (para 5.19) given the uncertain irrigation
supply (which was generally not measured), and to a lesser extent, unpredictable supplies of other
agricultural inputs. The inability to easily test water or soil quality and other parameters further reduced
the value of agricultural data collected and it is still not possible to relate agricultural performance to soil
types and irrigation service with any certainty.
5.11  Extension Activities. Sufficient extension staff were recruited and assigned to project activities,
but resources and facilities provided (in particular, transportation) were inadequate for staff to operate
effectively in the field. This situation developed unchecked, because there was little real need for
agricultural field activity until about 1990, since few wells were operational. Unfortunately, the
consultants had already left before there were sufficient operational wells to test and demonstrate the
extension duties and procedures and the recommended packages for irrigated crops on the farmers' fields.
In addition, procedures for efficiently applying lessons learned from research farms and reporting
requirements of extension staff have not been fully tested and evaluated. Coordination between the
extension staff and the 1D was not formalized and most extension staff did not fully understand the
opportunities and limitations of a groundwater irrigation service - just as most ID staff were not familiar
with irrigated agricultural challenges.
5.12   Agricultural Eguipment and Materials. The project supported purchase of agricultural equipment
to undertake crop demonstrations, adaptive research and also assist in the land levelling requirements.
The equipment was scheduled to arrive in 1984 but did not reach site until 1988 and resulted in few
measurable benefits. The procurement of fertilizer and chemicals was also delayed and, although they
were beneficially used in the project area, most chemicals did not arrive in time to be used for adaptive
research and demonstrations undertaken by the consultants. As a result, present applications of fertilizers
and chemicals are substantially less than that recommended in the appraisal (on both the research farms
and the farmers' fields).
5.13   Training. The project provided for fellowships abroad and short term overseas training and tours
for both ID and AC staff. It was assumed that the consultants would assist in arranging for these
activities and also provide on-the-job training through the demonstration effect of their work. Three ID
staff were sent abroad for post graduate training and one visited the consultant's headquarters for short
term training in groundwater modeling. None of these staff are still working on groundwater related
programs. Attempts were made to organize some overseas tours, but these never materialized. On-the-
job training was severely constrained by the start-up delays and lack of operational wells while the
consultants were in Myanmar (para 1 1.1): As a result, training impact under the project has been lirmited.
Nonetheless, there are now a considerable number of ID and some AC staff who have gained useful
experience in groundwater development, primarily because they had to undertake the work programs
virtually by themselves. Also, World Bank supervision missions provided comprehensive aide memoires
which focused attention on the lessons learned.
5.14 Operation and Maintenance (O&M). The appraisal recognized that, unlike surface irrigation
schemes which can be mistreated and still deliver a service, sustainability of groundwater development
depends heavily on efficient operation and preventive maintenance. The challenge related to O&M was to
be addressed through institutional strengthening activities and by involving farmers closely in scheme



-7-
implementation and management through formation of water user groups. It was assumed that O&M of
tubewells and irrigation facilities would be transferred from the construction division after tubewell
systems were completed to a maintenance division with units responsible for civil and mechanical
maintenance. The EPC was to operate and maintain all 33 kV facilities and the four 33/11 kV substations
and train ID staff to maintain 11 kV lines and tubewell transformers. The AC was expected to continue
an intensive agricultural extension program until the service could be reverted to normal levels of
extension after the irrigated agricultural development phase.
5.15 The O&M arrangements have not fully worked out as planned. During the construction stage,
O&M of completed works was only partially successful because construction staff could not devote
sufficient attention to O&M as the number of completed tubewells increased and on-going construction
sites became more isolated from completed wells. A related problem was that well operators were
employed and administered by construction staff who had no long term interest their welfare or the
project O&M requirements. Recognizing the potential risks, an important justification for extensions of
the Credit closing date to June 30, 1992 was to put in place effective O&M arrangements to manage the
project in the post construction stage. Useful progress was made until about mid 1992 with an effective
O&M unit established in Monywa and sufficient spare equipment and materials were procured (using cost
savings) to service the project for at least five years. However, the policy change within the ID (under a
new Minister of Agriculture) diverted most staff and resources to a crash program to complete on-going
projects in Myanmar. This has, in the short term, seriously depleted the O&M capability of the project,
but may be corrected when the on-going irrigation projects are completed.
5.16 The challenges related to O&M are technical, administrative, and financial. A general technical
problem is that the approach to maintenance appears to be 'curative' (i.e., the minimum necessary to keep
essential project elements working) rather than 'preventive'. The cause of the problem is primarily
budgetary constraints. It also appears that the project 'operational' principles have been given insufficient
attention, since these are considered to be a users' responsibility. Specific roles and responsibilities
related to operation (and maintenance) tasks have yet to be fully defined and allocated to staff. In
addition, the monitoring and reporting of O&M needs to be substantially strengthened if management is to
be kept informed. Admninistrative actions which need to be taken, include: (a) full provision of staffing,
office facilities, transportation and routine equipment for monitoring; (b) sufficient and predictable annual
budgetary provisions; and (c) strengthening the linkage between the ID (O&M) and the AC units in
Monywa and other agencies involved in sustaining the project.
5.17  The project O&M status reflects a general policy challenge throughout the ID and cannot be
resolved on a project basis. The recurrent expenditures needed to sustain projects are small compared to
construction costs, but appear to have little priority. GOM has not yet recognized that the negative impact
on benefits will be substantial if completed irrigation schemes are not effectively sustained.
5.18 Water Users Groups. Water User Groups (WUGs) have been set up on all project tubewells and
appear to working reasonably well. Their main tasks are to mange the well point and operator, including
arrangements for repairs and maintenance of the pump set and irrigation works; plan and supervise the
irrigated agricultural activities; and distribute the irrigation water supplies. One initial problem now
mainly resolved is that most WUGs were set up long before the tubewells became operational and it was
hard to maintain farmers' interest in irrigation or preventive maintenance of works which were not
functioning . Also ID supervision of WUG activities needs to be strengthened since performance records
are not standardized and kept in a way that can be checked. It appears that WUG committees are not
generally selected on competence, but on the age, rank or position of the farmers in the local society.
Although the present WUG arrangements are functioning satisfactorily, the management task is relatively
easy since present irrigation service in 'on-demand'. Once demand increases and they may be shortage of
water, the present informal WUG arrangements may be open to abuse which cannot be easily monitored
by the ID.
5.19  Reporting and Monitoring. The financial and physical progress was generally reported in a
satisfactory manner and provided sufficient information for the World Bank to supervise and GOM to
manage project implementation. However, little diagnostic analysis was done of the data collected to
establish the extent and causes of the project problems and delays. In almost all cases, it was World
Bank missions which requested that specific monitoring exercises be undertaken, indicating that



-8 -
performance data collection has not been not a high priority for Government.
5.20 The monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the physical resources and technical aspects of
groundwater development are essential element of the implementation process (as reflected in the need for
site selection criteria and procedures). However, this activity was never undertaken in a comprehensive
and complete manner, thus limiting lessons learned and allowing technical problems (i.e., soil and water
quality) to remain unchecked until curative action had to be taken. In addition, many experiments and
studies have remained inconclusive because facilities were not available to test water or soil quality and
other parameters (and thus relate crop production to soil types). For example, considerable work was
done under the agricultural development and research activities, but virtually no trials were designed to
record the quantity or timidng of irrigation water used. Thus, the irrigation performance related to irrigated
agricultural production cannot be rigidly evaluated, even though the basic project objective is to provide
an irrigation service.
5.21 The O&M record keeping at tubewell sites and O&M offices in Monywa was varied and often
incomplete. Bank review missions since 1989 made detailed recommendations to improve M&E
procedures, designed the data collection activities and indicated how data should be checked, processed
and analyzed. Although substantial field data was collected, the information was not effectively collated
or routinely checked for accuracy or consistency and there was little data evaluation. Procedures were not
introduced to cross-check data from various sources and thus confirm the validity of records (in
particular, pumping hours, water used per irrigated area, and power consumption). It has therefore not
been possible to correlate irrigated cropped area recorded by the AC and ID, or to establish a relationship
between irrigated area and tubewell running hours. In addition, there were unexplained differences
between power consumed as measured at individual tubewells and that reported at substations.
5.22  Hvdrozeologv. World Bank review missions strongly emphasized the need to routinely collect
and analyze hydrogeological data to confirm water quality and quantity at each project tubewell. Data was
needed to evaluate water and soil quality (salinity and alkalinity problems) and monitor performance of
groundwater resources of all aquifer layers. It was also needed to run the groundwater simulation model
prepared by the consultants (but never used operationally). The construction of some 60 observation
wvells in 1991/92 should improve the situation, but even before the observation well network was
completed, static groundwater level could have been routinely measured from the "pilot phase" wells and
open wells in the project area. This monitoring work appears not to have been done because there was no
qualified hydrogeologist available and insufficient equipment and materials for routine sampling and
testing. Although project staff recognized the problem, it was not possible for them to take appropriate
action because of bureaucratic and budgetary constraints.
5.23  Cost Recovery. At appraisal, cost recovery was not considered to be a major challenge because
the main source of the recovery rate (estimated at 58 percent) would come from indirect taxation, through
procurement of 'controlled' crops - including cotton, wheat and mung beans- at below the crop export or
import prices. The post construction risk was not considered to be cost recovery, but to maintain enough
production incentives to farmers to fully participate. However, in the last year of the project, the
compulsory procurement for wheat by the Industrial Corporation I (3 baskets per acre) and for paddy
through the Trade Corporation I (2 baskets per acre) applies whether the crop is irrigated or rainfed.
Thus, procurement of 'controlled' crops is not a water charge, but a general agricultural tax.
Nonetheless, since controlled procurement is the same for irrigated and rainfed land, it should provide an
incentive to irrigate to increase yield per unit acre, but apparently does not. In 1991, the crop tax equals
about Kyat 750 per acre for wheat and Kyats 140 acre for paddy (i.e., the difference between the
Government procurement and open market price).
5.24  The cost recovery issue is how to ensure that there are sufficient funds available to the WUGs to
sustain the project works. Groundwater development has a low capital investment per unit area but high
O&M costs. As wells are more fully utilized, O&M costs will increase through increasing electrical
charges (billed at about Kyat 700,000 in 1990-91). In this respect, performance data indicate that
irrigation efficiency of project tubewells is varied and low and farmers do not appear to value water
supplies. Government recognizes that water charges will have to be introduced, but no decision has yet
been made because of the political sensitivity of the issue. It has however been generally accepted that
charges would cover at least O&M costs, (i.e., establishment, power, routine maintenance and repairs to



-9-
equipment) and the recovery system would be designed to encourage farmers to use irrigation facilities
and service efficiently. Still undecided is whether to charge directly or indirectly for water and, if
directly, how water charges would be assessed, billed and collected. One option under consideration is a
two tier water charge system consisting of a flat charge of each irrigable acre with an additional charge on
a hourly basis for irrigation used.
5.25  Procurement. The implementation schedule at appraisal assumed that it would take about 14
months from initiation of a procurement activity through to delivery of the goods. It was also assumed
that the procurement process would be started under the "pilot phase" to take advantage of the presence of
the "pilot phase" consultants. Draft tender documents were submitted to MAFs specification committee
in mid 1983, but only the contracts for well component and materials were floated by January 1984. It
was soon recognized that there would be serious delays in procurement and the ID was asked to
undertake a detailed review of the procurement process. This revealed that for each contract some 37
steps were needed, some with 15 sub-steps, and the typical processing time to delivery was over two
years - assuming there was no contract or bidding problem. Unfortunately, the key contract related to
well components had to be re-tendered and delivery was finally made in July 1986. The appraisal did not
recognize the special risk with groundwater development that all the various equipment, spares and
materials had to be available for works to proceed on schedule. This risk should have been predicted at
appraisal and appropriate guarantees sought to compensate for the GOM procurement procedures. Once
into the project, IDA appeared unable to persuade GOM to improve the situation. In fact, the inefficient
procurement process has remained substantially the same through to Credit closing as reflected by
procurement delays for additional equipment and spares - initiated in 1990 and delivered in early 1992.
6.    Project Results
6.1   Introduction. The project objective to expand irrigated agriculture through groundwater
development has been generally achieved, although with at least a three year delay compared to the
appraisal estimate. The second objective of developing an institutional capability and inter-agency
coordination in the groundwater subsector has been less successful because a planned follow-up project
was not taken up. As a result, the ID staff who have gained experience from the project and the ID
implementation divisions and their equipment have now been transferred to other work programs. Thus,
many lessons painfully leamed under the project may now be lost since there is no groundwater
development program on which to test and demonstrate alternatives
6.2   The performance of the irrigation service of the project is detailed in Annex 1. Most tubewells are
operated 'on demand', since at present water supply exceeds demand. There is no need to efficiently
manage the irrigation systems or to formalize a procedure to deal with water disputes. In fact, since there
is no water shortage, the arrangements designed by the consultants for sharing water between farmers has
not been fully tested or demonstrated. Water is informally allocated by the WUGs and/or tubewell
operators and there are no operational guidelines to assist WUGs in the management of tubewells.
Although there has been no detailed evaluation, irrigation system efficiency appears to be low, as would
be expected with supplies exceeding demand and there are no water charges. Since power costs are
directly proportional to the water supplied, the present low irrigation efficiency increases O&M costs
through additional energy costs.
6.3   Prior to December 1987, some wells operated on diesel but, apart from some Government farms,
these wells never provided a reliable irrigation service because of unpredictable fuel shortages and lack of
other inputs. Consequently, agricultural production data collected up to about 1990 has been at best
indicative, with considerable unexplainable variations in yields between wells. The project agricultural
impact at full development still cannot be estimated with certainty since the last wells were energized early
in 1991. However, the operational wells are generally performing as designed with the irrigated area
building up as farmers except the risks of changing from rainfed to irrigated agriculture. As would be
expected, this transition is being undertaken cautiously given the magnitude of the change involved, but
still is taking place at about the same rate anticipated at appraisal. One problem, as yet unresolved, is that
project monitoring has not been carefully designed to include all variables affecting irrigated agricultural
impact. Thus, variations in crop production cannot be compared to the quality and quantity of irrigation
service.



- 10-
6.4   Results. The ERR for the project reestimated for the PCR is about 8 percent compared to about
22 percent at appraisal as detailed in Annex 2. The shortfall in ERR compared to that calculated at
appraisal reflects: (a) serious delays in project implementation; (b) slower than expected response by
farmers to irrigation; and (c) shortcomings in the planning and design (para 5.4). However, the PCR
analysis is considered to be conservative since it assumes that: (a) the irrigation intensity at full
development will be only about 125 percent compared to 150 percent predicted at appraisal; (b) some 7
percent of the tubewells will fail because of poor water quality and soils, or for other technical reasons;
and (c) farmers will initially put about 40 percent of the irrigated area to irrigated sesame, giving low
returns at low risk. Under more optimistic assumptions, the ERR may increase to about 10 percent, if the
PCR analysis was to reflect a continuation of farmers' response to the incentives created by the recent
opening of free markets for agricultural produce (Case C in annex 2). There is strong evidence that the
project has now provided farmers with a substantial financial incentive to more fully utilize the irrigation
service.
6.5   Other Proiect Results. The main project objective of regional development in a dry zone area has
been achieved, but strengthening of the agencies involved has been only partly successful.  Many
shortcomings in institutional performance were due to sector issues and government-wide bureaucratic
constraints which could not be effectively addressed at the project level. The formal and on-the-job
training through technical assistance appears to have had only a marginal impact. However, the project
has provided GOM with substantial experience which will be useful if further groundwater development
programs are implemented.
6.6   Main Lessons Learned. The World Bank had good reason to assume that the project would be
successful given the four year "pilot phase" sub-project under UNDP (para 2.3). With hindsight,
although the "pilot phase" produced some useful data for the project, the result was a feasibility study and
should have been treated as such with the project area identified to little more than reconnaissance level.
Shortcomings, which emerged as the project moved to the implementation stage, included: (a)
insufficient detail on physical resources (soils, groundwater topography, etc.); (b) unproven assumptions
on irrigation and water management efficiency; and (c) an assumed developmental impact in groundwater
irrigated areas which had not been demonstrated. Furthernore, project performance depended on GOM
taking hard policy decisions on sensitive issues related to institutional strengthening and staffing, budget
provision for non-planned expenditures and basic improvements in procurement and bureaucratic
procedures. The rapid appraisal following the "pilot phase" subproject indicates that the World Bank did
not fully identify the potential risks in the first 'project' scale operation to develop groundwater.
7.    Proiect Sustainabilitv
7.1   The project will only be sustainable if full staffing and resources for O&M activities are routinely
provided and the WUGs provided with technical support. One long termn problem will be to repair and
replace the equipment which was procured from a wide variety of sources using foreign exchange. To
the extent possible under the Credit, the project has taken preventive maintenance action by procuring
about five years worth of spare parts, particularly for mechanical and electrical equipment of the
tubewells. Nonetheless, a water charge system will have to be designed and introduced to cover at least
the full O&M costs and the extension effort strengthened to encourage farmers to more fully utilize the
irrigation service. The project should be closely monitored to quantify the many lessons learned to date
and to enable remedial action to be taken as required. The procedures and processes for land and
agricultural development should continue to be tested and demonstrated and action taken to ensure that all
the inputs are available for irrigated agriculture (including fertilizers and improved seed varieties) and that
all farmers can receive an reliable and equitable irrigation service. The electrical power supply should be
sustainable. If necessary, there is considerable flexibility to accommodate power shortages by extending
the daily running hours to include night irrigation.
8.    IDA Perfornance
8.1   The project concept to support groundwater irrigation development was, and continues to be, a
sound proposition and given the four year "pilot phase" sub-project, it is easy to see why the appraisal
was optimistic - particularly with respect to procurement, the electrification program, the role of technical
assistance, and the limited priority given to O&M. Nonetheless, there is evidence that if the irrigation



- 11 -
subsector had been more fully evaluated at the time of appraisal, the risks (which soon turned into
problems) could have been better identified. As a result of the optimistic appraisal, the implementation
phase was only partly successful in fulfilling the project objectives and considerable effort was spent
correcting problems which may have been avoided. The "pilot phase" sub-project prior to appraisal
produced only a feasibility study and did not fully identify the technical and institutional risks of
developing a large scale groundwater irrigation investrnent. The siting criteria and procedures describe in
the SAR were not followed because of start-up delays. Another risk, not fully evaluated at appraisal, was
the assumption that GOM agencies would have the procedural flexibility, authority and incentive to
coordinate their project programs.
8.2   Supervision. The supervision performance was varied but, on average, was sufficient to identify
the causes of the shortcomings and make appropriate recommendations for curative action. However, it
is clear that the project was under-supervised during the critical start-up period particularly as problems
related to procurement developed. Lack of focus on the key issues earlier in the project cycle allowed
many problems to develop unchecked, such that the project substantially deviated from the plan envisaged
at appraisal. However, actions required to overcome the problems as they developed were generally
beyond the power of the project staff to address. One reason for weak supervision was that most
missions were split between two or more operations resulting in a superficial reviews which did not
thoroughly address the key issues (i.e., the causes of the delays and technical shortcomings). In fact, it
is fully understandable that many basic problems and constraints developed unchecked and the project
deviated from the plan envisaged at appraisal. During this period, considerable resources were used on
preparing the proposed Groundwater Irrigation II project while the first project was making negligible
progress. More focused supervision may have resulted in better value from the consultant services (by
revising their terms of reference) and agricultural support activities.
8.3   Once the project finally got underway in about 1987, the World Bank review process became
easier and the comprehensive aide memoires and detailed recommendations for improvements helped to
improve the situation. In particular, the World Bank supervisions during the Credit extension period
(1989 - 1992) helped to secure potential benefits and perhaps, more importantly, record the many lessons
which were learned from the implementation phase.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1   The project performance appears to be typical of a country undertaking groundwater irrigation
development on a large scale for the first time. Under difficult country circumstances, the agencies
involved managed to overcome a wide range of problems and, in the end, were able to exceed the project
scope with a saving in cost, even though the project took three years longer to implement than expected.
In fact, with the first three years primarily devoted to resolving start-up problems and constraints, the
effective implementation period was about that envisaged at appraisal.
9.2    Clearly the project could have gone better in that the best way to resolve a problem is to avoid it.
However, most of the causes of the problems were generic, sectoral or country-wide in nature and could
not be addressed through a specific project. Furthermore, it was understandable that the Borrower
should be less than enthusiastic with the numerous problems during the start-up period. The Borrower's
institutions managed to resolve most of the problems, albeit at some cost to the quality of the planning
and design. Nonetheless, the agencies now have the capability to successfully implement groundwater
development should GOM decided to continue with the program in other areas.
9.3   Throughout the implementation period, the administrative resources were insufficient for the staff
to perform effectively. One consequence was the persistent lack of reliable reporting and monitoring of
performance. Most reporting related to information available in the offices or from construction sites.
Thus, data tended to be limited to physical and financial progress; and, without perforrnance data and
related diagnostic analysis, was not sufficient for effective management. The field data collected by each
agency was seldom made available outside the respective project office for serious review or analysis.
As a result , the project status could not be consolidated since each agency seemed to have a different
format, time base and procedure for processing data. Reporting and monitoring could and should have
been given more attention. An important lesson for the Borrower should be the need for reliable
performance data for both irrigation service and agricultural production. Without reliable data, it is not



- 12 -
possible to have effective management or institutional accountability or evaluate whether Myanmar should
continue with public sector groundwater development.
9.4   The main lessons to be learned by the Borrower and agencies involved relate to improvements in:
(a) procurement procedures; (b) local funding and the budgetary process; (c) institutional capability,
responsibility, accountability and coordination; (d) the use of technical assistance; (e) quality control of
planning and design and appropriateness of the technology; (f) O&M of completed tubeweUl schemes; and
(g) monitoring and reporting. A fundarnental lesson to be learnt by the GOM is that diagnostic analysis
of project planning, design and implementation must be undertaken if similar new investments are to
benefit from the lessons to be learned.
9.5   The Borrower complied with most of the project specific covenants to standards that generally
prevail throughout the irrigation subsector. The financial statements and audit reports were satisfactory
but submission was generally delayed, reflecting the slow and complex procedures related to fiscal
control in Myanmar. However, the Credit Agreement would have been improved with specific
conditionalities related to project coordination, well siting criteria and site selection, quality control and
O&M standards. Stronger provisions could also have been made related to cost recovery, reporting and
monitoring, institutional strengthening and full provision of qualified staffing. Compliance with these
project activities were generally beyond the control of the project authorities.
9.6   Borrower's Strengths. The agencies involved performed remarkably well under extremely
difficult circumstances and have substantially succeeded in saving the project after a disastrous start..
Perhaps the most encouraging outcome has been that once a lesson was learned or problems were
identified, GOM and the agencies involved, in particular ID, have shown willingness to take whatever
action was feasible. In fact, the project was implemented almost entirely by the national staff since the
technical assistance made only a marginal contribution.
10.   Project Relationships
10.1  Throughout its implementation, the project was marked by the most cordial relationship between
IDA and GOM, although there were differences on the issues related to, inter alia, procurement delays,
the role of EPC in the project and availability of diesel fuel and lubricants until GOM took appropriate
action to address these shortcomings.
11.   Consultant Services
11.1  There was about 15 months delay in the employment of the consultants compared to the timetable
set at appraisal. Even with the slow start-up of project, the timing of the consultant services limited their
impacL Their main activity was to assist in irrigation agronomy and on-farm water management on the
assumption that the project work program would be completed as scheduled at appraisal. Unfortunately,
the first electrified tubewell systems were not operational until the last few months of the consultancy
which was completed in December 1988. Thus, even though the consultants provided the agreed staff
resources, their impact was severely limited. Much of the consultants' efforts had to be focused on
production of general guidelines and on the research farms with little opportunity to apply lessons learned
on the farmers' fields. Some useful work was initiated on water losses and irrigation efficiency, water
and soil quality considerations, land levelling, cropping patterns and irrigation practices. However, most
analyses were incomplete because the consultants did not sufficiently monitor the quantity or quality of
the irrigation service, or train national staff in water measurement. Lack of reliable data on irrigation
performance did not enable a diagnostic analysis of the consultant's preliminary conclusions and
recomrendations to be made.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.1 The SAR and legal documents provided a useful (but insufficiently detailed) framework for IDA
and GOM during implementation. If the details in the supervision reports had been fully endorsed and
understood at the working level by all project agencies, many implementation problems may have been
tackled earlier. The IDA implementation documentation was comprehensive and many of the supervision
reports (and aide memoires) were persuasive.



- 13 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECIIVE
(The Borrower has cooperated actively in the preparation of Parts I & m, but has not provided any
additional inputs for Part II).



- 14 -
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table I. Related IDA Credits
Credit Number                       Purpose                    Year of             Status
and Title                                                   Approval
483-BA         Rehabilitate and extend flood protecton embank-   1974    Completed in 1978.
Irrigation I    ments, repair construction equipment, supply
irrigation pumps to farmers, and construct jute
baling facilities.
642-BA         Construct new and rehabilitate existing flood    1975    Completed in 1985.
Lower Myarnar      protection embankments, excavate drainage chan-
Paddyland       nels, and reclaim abandoned land.
Development
745 -BA         Improve research capability of six central farms,   1977    Completed in 1984.
Seeds         develop seed program for rice and cotton, create
Development       processing facilities for seed and storage, pilot
project for groundnut seed storage in Lower
Myanmar, overseas training, and consultants.
835-BA         Flood protection and drainage of 175, 000 acres,   1978    Completed 1990.
Paddyland       including reclamation of 50,000 acres abandoned
Development II     lands, procurement of construction and agri-
cultural equipment, and establishing workshops
in the project area.
1031-BA         Construct 235 ft. high dam, hydropower station,   1980    Dam  and power station
Kinda         rehabilitate existing irrigation system for 88,000     completed and power ge-
(Nyaunggyat)      ac, construct new system for irrigation, drainage     neration started in 1985.
Multipurpose      and flood protection for 113,000 ac, and strength-    Irrigation commenced in
en MAS for trails on new crops, and procurement       entire new  area in June
of fertilizer.                                        1990.  Project completed
March 31, 1991.
1092-BA         Improve storage facilities at selected locations   1981    Completed 1986.
Grain Storage     within the country.
1245-BA         Provide essential transmission facilities for the   1982    Completed in 1990.
Power          generating stations in operation and under con-
struction; institutional development for opera-
tions; planning; and financial performance
including level and structure of electricity tariff.
1315-BA         Construct an 82 ft. high dam, rehabilitate and    1982    Works completed, irriga-
Tank          extend existing irrigation system for 5,000 acres.     tion and town water supply
Irrigation      Construct another dam, 92 ft. high for supplying      already commenced. Project
water to 850 acres of orchards, 2,000 acres of        closed in June 1990.
paddy, and Mudon town of 40,000 inhabitants.
Also strengthen ID for design and planning and
MAS for extension.
1616-BA         Strengthen seed production and management   1985    Project expected to be
Seeds         capability of MAS, and establish efficient seed        completed in 1994.
Development II     multiplication program.
1707-BA         Improve efficiency of rice milling through    1986    Project expected to be
Grain         rehabilitation of existing facilities and construc-    completed in 1994.
Storage II      tion of new mills.                                   I
1731-BA         Rehabilitate and modernize irrigation system for   1986    Project had delayed start due
Ye-U Irrigation    121,000 acres to stabilize paddy production,          to political disturbances.
Rehabilitation    strengthen ID mechanical wing for repairs and          Implementation is catching
inventory control of construction equipment, and      up.
prepare a Master Plan for rehabilitation of irriga-
tion systems in Central Myanmar.          I_I
Note:  The most recent and relevant Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) are Nos. 3845 and 6810.



- 15 -
Table 2. Project Timetable
Date                   Date
Planned                AOu
-  Identification W                                       March 1981
- Preparation/Preappraisal b/
-  Appraisal Mission              October 1983              9/28/83   g/
-  Credit Negotiations              4/11/83                 4/18/83
-  Board Approval                   5/17/83                  6/7/83
-  Credit Signature                    -                    7/18/83
-  Credit Effectiveness                -                    10/7/83   d/
-  Credit Completion                9/30/88                 6/30/92
-  Credit Closing                   6/30/89                 6/30/92   r/
Commuents:
a/  The project identification resulted from recommendations of a World Bank
Agricultural Sector Mission which visited Myanmar in 1977.
b/  The project was prepared through the Groundwater Exploitation and Pilot
Development Subproject under the UNDP (Myanmar) Umbrella Project. The
Subproject produced a Feasibility Report from countrywide reconnaisance level
studies of groundwater resoruces.
c/   The appriasal mission arived in Myanmar one month after the submission of the
UNDP feasibility report.
d/  There was one condition of effectivenesss which was fully complied with (Table 7).
e/  The Credit Closing date was extended three times to June 30, 1992.



Table 3. Credit Disbursements
Fiscal Year            1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
-US-------------------------- ----------------- US$ Million--------------------------
Appraisal Estimate g/    1.3    5.7    10.2    12.5   13.7    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0
Actual _I              0.0       0.2    2.1     6.2    7.6    10.4    12.7    14.5    16.0    16.4
Actual as % of Appraisal
Estimate g             0.0       3.5   20.6    49.6   55.5    74.3    90.7   103.5   114.3   117.1
Date of Final Disbursement: June 11, 1993 a/
Notes:
W   Original Credit closing date - June 30, 1989; revised Credit closing date - June 30, 1992 (see note e/ below).
V/  The disbursement percentage for civil works was increased from 50% to 100% from August 17, 1990. This was
done to reflect that costs of civil works compared to other project components was larger than anticipated at
appraisal. If the disbursement percentages had not been revised IDA would only have been able to fund about
65% of total costs, compared to 75% agreed when the Credit was approved.
LI Ir current value dollar terms, the percentage disbursement was lower than shown because of the change in
exchange rate between the dollar and SDR. The increased disbursements in US dollar equivalent terms is due to
depreciation in value of the US dollar.
d/  The Credit was closed on January 13, 1993 and then re-opened, as provided for in Operational Disbursement
Procedures (ODP) 6.06 of February 1993, to honor part of a withdrawal claim related to an eligible expenditure of
US$ 531, 573.42 for a contract to purchase spares for tubewells. The payment against this claim fully disbursed the
Credit.



- 17 -
Table 4
Sheet 1If 
Table 4. - ProJect Impeimentatlon
A. Project CompoDents
Ref No     Components                 Indicators             Units  Appraisal  Actual            Comments
Estimate
A     IRRIGATION
I Tubewells
Construcion of New TubeweUs        No.       106       120
Completion of Exisiting Tubewells  No.        25       25
2 Power Facilities
33/11kV Substations                No.        4         4
33kV Power Line                    Mile       16        16
11kV PowerLine                     Mile      115       119
Electrification (New Tubewells)    No.       106       120
Electrification (Existing Tubewells)  No.     25       22
3 Irrigation Networks
Excavation of Main Canals          Mile       50       59
Lining of Main Canals              Mile       50       59
Construction of Unlined Laterals    No       430       512   approx 4 miles per TW
Construction of Drains             Mile      100       113
4 Equipment
Well Components                    Sets      106       120   sufficient for all weUs
Drilling Rig Spare Parts           Sum        -       100%   sufficient for drilling pTogram
Drilling Equipment & Matenals      Sum         -      100%   sufficient for driUing program
Workshop Equipment                 Sum         -      100%
Survey Equipment                   Sets       7         7
Office Equipment                   Sets       1         1
Vehicles and Plant                 No.        61       67
Tubewell Spares                     %         20        30    % of items procured for works
Power Supply Spares                 %         20       20    % of items procured for works
5 Misc
Setting up Water User Groups       No.       131       145
B     AGRICULTURE
6 Construction
Research Farm Facilities           No.        I         1
Production Camps                   No.        6         6
Office for Demonstration Farm      No.        I
7 Equipment
Various Agricultural Plant         No.        7         7
Tubewell Components (for farms)    Sets       3         3
4-wheeled drive vehicles            No.       4         4
Motorcycles                        No.        4         4
Bicycles                           No.        26       26
8 Fertlizer /Cherricals
Urea                              MlTon    2321       2321
TSP                               M/Ton    2063        2063
MOP                               M/ron      799       799
Misc Chemicals                    M/Ton    2719       2719



- 18-                                Table
Sheet 2of 3
Table .  Project Implementation
B.  Present Status of Tubewells in Project Area  a/
Present          Remaining
Ring         No. of             Irrigated         Non-irrigated
No           Tubewells          Tubewells         Tubewells h/
Ix~       No.       :          No.                   No.
Part A. Oriiinal Proiect Tubewells
1      A  =  9)           A   =  9)              A   =   1)
)  31              ) 30                   )     2
B  =22)           B  =21)                B   =   1)
2      A      11)         A   = 11)              A        )
)  32              ) 31                         1
B  =21)           B   =20)               B  =   1)
3      A  =  2)           A   =  2)
)  37                                           2
B  =35)           B   =33)               B   =   2)
4      A  = 11)           A  =  11)              A   =   1)
)  31              ) 29                   )     2
B  =20)           B  =  18)              B  =   1)
Soubtotal         131                125                        6
Part B. Additional 14 Project Tubewells
2      A=   I)            A   =1)                A    =   )
)    5             )      5               )
B=  4)            B   =4)                B    =)
3      A  =  1)    I    A         1)      I      A    =  )
4      A=   I)            A       1)             A    =)
)    8             )      8               )       0
B  =7)            B   =7)                B    =)
Subtotal         14                   14                    0
Total            145                 139                        6
a/.   A = I cusec tubewells; B. = 2 cusec tubewells. There are four electrcial power
rings each controlled by a substation. Status of tubewell construction as of March, 1993.
b/   Causes of Low Utilization by Wells are as follows (March 1993):
Ref.                   Cause of Low Utilization                No. of Well Affected
Low irrigation efficiency due to sandy soil type             7
2        Low well discharge                                           3
3        Irrigation cannot all tubewell command area                  8
4        Low demand by farmers                                        6
5        Electrical breakdowns                                        6
6        Water quality                                                7
7 tubewell are cosidered to serious problems which are unlikely to be resolved
without major remedial works.



- 19-
Table 4
Sheet 3 of 3
Table 4. Project Implementation
C. Additional Equipment and Spares Procured a/
Ref.         Description                              Unit            Quantity
Part A. Pump Set Spares bl
a.  Johnston Turbine Pumps (1 cusec)               No.of Sets           9
b.  Johnston Turbine Pumps (1 cusec)               No of Sets           16
c. Audoli Turbine Pumps (1 cusec)                  No of Sets           26
c. Audoli Turbine Pumps (2 cusec)                  No of Sets          106
c. Audoli Turbine Pumps (1 cusec)                  No of Sets           26
PartB. Motor Control Switchboard
1.  Circuit Breaker                                No.                 176
2.  Transformer                                    No.                  60
3. Misc small items
Pan C. Electrical Power Line Material
1.  11 KV Lightning Arrestor (Single phase)        No.                  25
2.  33 KV Lightning Arrestor (Single phase)        No.                  10
D. Office Equipment
1. Electronic Teleprinter                          No.                   1
2.  Facsimile machine                              No.                   1
Notes:
a/  Procured in 1991/92 to ensure that there would be sufficient inported spare parts to sustain the
project tubewells for about five years after project completion.
b/  Spares for each type of pump set include, inter alia: discharge head; bearing spider, rubber
bearing; shaft sleeve; shaft coupling; top column shaft; pump bowl; impeller, pump shaft; and
tools and tool box. Number of spare reflect predicted annual maintenance requirements.



Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs a/
(US$ million equivalent)
Ref.         Project Component                 Appraisal                      Actual
Locl    Oreign   TOWa     Local FoegTtl
A   Well Construction                  0.82     1.94     2.75        1.85     1.92      3.77
B   Irrigation Distribution and Drainage  4.79  1.77     6.56       4.82      0.95      5.77
C  Engineering & Administration        0.74              0.74        1.62               1.62
D   Power Supply                       1.39     3.02     4.42        1.32     2.12      3.44
E  O&M                                 0.58     0.42     1.00       1.53                1.53
F  Agricultural Ext'n & Applied Research   0.28  0.17    0.44       0.30      0.12      0.42
G   Fertilizer & Chemicals                      1.87     1.87                 1.28      1.28
H   Technical Assistance and Training  0.07     0.98     1.05                 0.95      0.95
Project Evaluation                 0.01     0.02     0.03       0.02      0.05      0.07               o
Phase II Preparation                                            0.61                0.61
Petroleum Products                                                        0.46      0.46
Subtotal              8.68     10.20    18.88      12.06     7.85      19.90
Taxes and Duties                   3.12              3.12        1.42               1.42
Total                11.80    10.20    22.00      13.47     7.85      21.32
a/    The Actual Costs are as recorded in the audited accounts of the ID and AC converted at the exchange rate
used at appraisal (7.786 Kyats = 1.0 US Dollar).
The savings at closure are partly due to favorable exchange rate between the US dollar and SDR.



Table-5. Project Costs and Financing
B. Project Financing a/
Financing                                                  Credit           Revisedb/         Actual /
Source                                                   Agreement
----------------------(SDR Million)  /------------------
(a) IDA         Category
1      Civil Works  /                          2.78   (3.0)    5.67   (7.09)       6.14  (8.08)
2       Equipment, Materials & Spares          8.99   (9.7)    6.13   (7.66)        5.55  (6.96)
3       Consultant Services & Training         0.93   (1.0)    0.77   (0.96)       0.74  (0.94)
4       Petroleum Products                         -            0.43   (0.53)       0.44  (0.58)
5       Unallocated                             0.3  (0.3)          -         -         -
Subtotal               13.0 (14.0)    13.0 (16.24)         13.0 (16.56)
(b)  Domestic                                                    7.4  (8.0)    N/A    N/A            4.4  (5.58)
Total Financing        20.4 (22.0)       N/A   N/A         17.4 (22.14)
Com,,mentls
a/ US Dollar equivalent given in parenthesis.
l/ The Credit Agreement was amended on April 15, 1987 to support purchase of petroleum products not included at appraisal.
F/  As of June 11, 1993 when Credit was fully disbursed.
d/ Percentage of expenditures financed for civil works was increased from 50% to 100% for Category 1 on August 17, 1990.
Abbreviation:   N/A. - Not available.



Table 6. - Project Benefits
A. Direct Benefits a/
PCR Estimate
Appraisal             Appraisal                              at full Development
Thuturc Without" Project  "Fuwure With" Project   Actual in Closing Year  (2003 on)
Ref.       Indicators         Area      Production    Area    Production   Area    Production    Area    Production
(ac)       (Tons)     (ac)       (Tons)     (ac)       (Tons)    (ac)       (ToMs)
A. Irrigated Crops
Paddy HYV (Monsoon)                                                    1131       2149      2332       4431
Cotton                    1075        366       10000       6530       1015       599       1779        1050
Wheat                     717         430       10000       14700     7052       10579      11610      17414
Mung Bean                                       10000       6530
Sesame                    1075        263                             6901        621       11360       1022
Subtotal   2867        1059     30000       27760      14968      11799     24749       19486
Cropping Intensity  123%   b/           150%                   67%                  124%
B. Rainfed Crops
Sesame                   26083        2113      21322       1727       4373       262       1584         95
Cotton                                                                 1060       138       384          50
Chickpea                 23330        7303     20014        6264       1855       445       672         175
Wheat                    11898        3891                             2120       657        768        238
Mung Bean                11486        574       9986         499
Fodder/Sorghum            5949        779                              3843       346       1392        125
Irrigation Right-of-Way c/    215               2000
Subtotal  78961  d/  14660      53322  d/  8490        12191      1710       4416        633
a/ See Annex 1, Part I for PCR assumptions used in re-calculating project impact.
b/ Irrigation intensity on existing "pilot phase" tubewells as reported at appraisal. IDA supervision reports
about 75% irrigation intensity on existing wells in 1983/84 with shortfall due to deisel fuel shortages.
c/ The pre-project cultivated area lost for infrastructure right-of-way.
d/ Including about 46,700 acres assumed to be affected by the developmnent of the irrigated area (see Annex I for explanation).



- 23 -
Table 6
Sheet 2 of 3
Table 6. Project Benefits
B. Economic Impact a/
Appraisal     Estimated at   Estimated at Full
Ref.             Indicator                Unit         Estimate     Closing Date         a/
A.       Economic Rate of Return b/                     22%            10%             11%
B.           Basic Assumptions
Project Life bl                      years          20           15/35/50        15/35/50
Constant Prices used for Analysis    year          1983            1990            1990
Official Rate of Exchange          KyatlUSS         7.8             7.5            7.5
Standard Conversion Factor            No.           0.8             0.2            0.2
Wage Rate                          Kyat/day          8              18              18
Economic Price Farm Labor          Kyat/day         6.4             3.6             3.6
C.       Economic Farmgate Prices
Paddy                               Kyat/ton         -            3793 c/          3793 c/
Cotton                              Kyat/ton       6852            5605            5605
Wheat                               KyatAon        2138            1503            1503
Mung Bean                           KyatAon        2699              -               -
Sesame                              KyatAon        5390            4047            4047
Pluses and Misc. Crops              Kyat/ton         -             3892            3892
Chickpea (Kalape)                   KyatAton       1614              -               -
Fodder Sorghum                      Kyat/ton       1577              -               -
Onions                              Kyatton          -             2695            2695
Chilies                             Kyat/ton         -             12535          12535
Urea                                Kyaxton        3330            1568            1568
TSP                                 KyatAon        2557            1605            1605
MOP                                 Kyaston        1608            1350            1350
D. Annual Incremental Crop Production cl
Paddy                                Tons            -             4310            4310
Cotton                               Tons          5385            655             655
Wheat                                Tons          10379           15387          15387
Mung Bean                            Tons          6530              -               -
Sesame                               Tons          -650             540            540
Sunflower                            Tons            -              -12            -12
Chickpea                             Tons          -1038           -205            -205
Fodder Sorghum                       Tons           -75            -376            -376
Onions                               Tons            -             1087            1087
Chillies                             Tons            -              60              60
E.          Other Impact /d/
Farm Families saved e/                No.          6000            4365            4365
Incremental Farn Labor            MJman/days        0.3            N/A             N/A
Increase in Family Income           percent        160%            250%            250%
Foreign Exchange Savings            USSM            8.7            N/A             N/A
a/  See Annex 1, Part I for details.
b/ The ERR at full development reflects the impact of the new farmer's incentives to increase crop production.
c/ The exchange rate used in calculating the economic price of paddy is USS1.0 = Kyats 30 based on the
official exchange rate for paddy exported through joint ventures.
d/ Assuming that the average inrigated holdings is about 5.2 acres (Project Baseline Survey, October 1986).
e/  Excluding 715 families on holdings irrigated by the existing 25 tubewells (ie., some 3.0 acre per family).



- 24-
Table 6
Sheet 3 of 3
Table 6. ProJect Benefits
C. - Financial Impact a/
(1990 constant Kyats)
With Project Net Farm Iocome    j     Appraisal Estimate           Actual at Fug Development
from                             .
S ha. farm. putly in igated                 13150                             32700
a/ See Annex 1, Part I for details.
D. - Technkal Adistance and Training
App,isa1    ,      ,Eutir t,    PCR  stimate
0~~                    ~~     -E                  Cos   -t-  y   -t     -       Costf  0t-; j Ej-
Retf      0      'IC0             d4;0fftemff  Uniit  Qjtaniy    1 A 1;   Q   0.<uantity     F ; SSOO5:-
A          Technical Assistance a/                     38.00      500.00               223.90     789.8
a Irrigation Agronomist         MM      36.0                            31.6
b Groundwater Engineer          MM       1.0                             1.4
c Electrical Engineer           MM       1.0                             2.0
d Mechancial Engineer           MM       8.0                             1.0
e Unspecified b/                mm       4.0                            13.0
Total          50.0
B                 Training                              0.19       2.48                  n/a       0.42
1      Irnigation Department
(i) Overseas Tour              months   12.0                             2.0
(ii) Groundwater Enginecr      months   15.0                             12.0
(iii) Hydrologist               months   15.0                             12.0
(iv) Irrigation Agronomist      months   15.0
Geophysics                  morths                                    12.0
2    Agriculural Corporation c/
(i) Subject Matter Sp. (cotton)  months   12.0
(ii) Subject Matter Sp. (wheat)  months   12.0
(iii) Subject Matter Sp. (beans)  months   12.0
a/ Mobilized on 14 November 1985 and departed from Myanmar on 9 December 1988.
b/ Including: Computor Model specialist; Senior Agronomist; Drainage Specialist; Geophysicist; and Research Agronomi
c/ The ID overseas tours did not materialize.
d/ The AC did not utilize the training componenL



- 25 -
Table 7. Status of  Covenants
DCA                               Subject                               Deadline        Status A/
Section                                                              for Compliance ll
3.02(a(   To establish/maintain Project Steering Committee.                N/A              2
3.02(b)   Cause ID to appoint a Project Director and 3 Executive   October 7, 1983         2 Wl
Engineers for civil, electrical and mechanical divisions.
3.03      To employ consultants under agreed TOR.                          N/A              2
3.04(a)   Goods procures overseas to be insured.                           N/A              2
3.04(b)   Goods and services financed out of the Credit to be used         N/A              2/7
exclusively for the projecL
3.05(a)   Furnish plans, specifications, reports, contract documents,      N/A               3
etc. as the IDA shall reasonably request.
3.05(b)   Maintain records and monitor project progress.                   N/A             3 W/
3.06      Identify and survey at least 30 new tubewell locations and    June 30, 1984        2
CCAs.
3.07(a)   Cause water user groups to be established on each new            N/A               2
cubewell being/are commissioning
3.07(b)   Cause water user groups to be established on the 25   March 31, 1984              2
existing tubewells.
4.01(d)   Audit reports on accounts to be submitted to IDA not later       N/A               2
than 9 months after the end of each fiscal year.
4.03      EPC to charge the ID for power supply to project wells and       N/A               2
O&M cost of power distribution system.
4.04      To review periodically crop pricing system  to provide           N/A              _
incentives to the farmers.
4.05      To establish and maintain recovery of O&M  and capital           N/A              3 SI
cost, when procurement is modified or abolished, in
consultation with the Bank.
it I = unavailable; 2 = in compliance; 3 = partiauy in copnliance; 4 = not in compliance;
5 = to be waived/deleted; 6 = no longer relevant 7 = to be amended; 8 = not yet done.
h/ Condition of Credit effectiveness.
J/ Project performance records weme generally incomplte.
g/ Agriculturc policy was revised in August 1987, liriting Government procurement to industral crops only.
Private dealers started to trade in grains. Free market for cash crops.
si  Recovery is being parially effected through land and irrigaion tax.



- 26 -
Table 8
Sheet 1 of 2
Table 8.  Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs IL/
Planned                        Actual
Stage of Project Cycle
-------------------(Staff Weeks)---------------
Through to Appraisal           N/A                               4.5
Appraisal through
Board Approval                 N/A                              56.3
Board Approval
through Effectiveness          N/A                               0.9
Supervision 1b/                N/A                              95.1
Project Completion Report      (6.0)                            (6.0)
TOTAL                    N/A                            162.8
Comments.
a/ Staff inputs as of May 18, 1993; figures in brackets are PCR estimates; no details of planned
inputs are available.
b/ Planned staff inputs for supervision have been taken as about 7.0 staff weeks for typical
specific investment project.



Table 8.   Use of Staff Resources
B. IDA Missions  &11h
No of       Days in    Specialization    Performance
Stage of Project Cycle    MonthlYear   Persons       _iel i/(    Rpee=nted_/   RaLing Status ni   TI   of Problem fl
1.    PrJecl AprLl        10/82           3           22          (2)IE; E
Ii. A2ppisal to Board: (10/82 to 3/83)    1           15          E
111. Board AWraisal to
Effectiveness:    (3/83 tolO/83)
11/83          2           (3)         E, IE(GW)            -                 P, M, TA
5/84          2          (15)         E, IE(GW)           2/2                P, M, T(l)
10/84          1           (3)         E                  2/1                 P, O
4/85          3           (9)          E, IE, AE          2/1                P, TA
11/85          3           (7)         E, IE, AE          3/2                 P, TA
5/86          3           (8)         E, IE, A            3/2                T, TA, D
11/86          2          (10)          E, IE(GW)         312                 M, T(l & A)
6/87          1          (15)         IE(GW)              2/2                T, O
10/87          1           (6)         A                    -                 M, T(A)
5/88           1           12         IE                  2/1                D, T(A)
5/89           1            8         IE                  2/2                D, M, T(l)
290           1          (4)         D                    -                 T(l & A)
3)91          1            16         IE                  2/1                M, T
1/92          2           14          IE, S              2/2                 T(i &A), M
V. PCR                     4/93           1           12          IE                  -                  D, O
/(  Expected and actual staff inputs not available for the project through the MIS.
hl/ Figures in brackets are PCR estimate of project field days during multi project missions.
1 Number of days fromn start to finish of mission in field.
d/  Key to Specialization: IE = Irrigation Engineer, A = Agriculturalist; E = Economist; S = Sociologist; D = Disbursement
Specialist
Z/  Key to Stats:     Development Impact/Overall Status.
fl  Key to Problem:  M = Management; T = Technical; F = Financial; P = Procurement; TA = Technical Assistance;
0= Other (Project coordination and general project problems).



-28 -                                Annex 1
Page I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
CREDIT 1381 - BA
Proiect Irri2ation Performance
1.    Background. The Supplementary Volume to the Appraisal Report (dated May 16, 1983)
included a working paper No. 2 on "Design and Operation Criteria for Tubewell Irrigation
Systems". The project design assumed that: (a) absolute maximum daily operation would be 20
hours while about 14 hours/day would be preferred (so that wells were not operated during peak
demand hours to 18.00 to 22.00 hours). Overall conveyance efficiency was assumed at 0.9 with
a field application efficiency of 0.66. Field water requirements were calculated at about 5 inches
per (monthly) application, assuming that each holding was irrigated twice a month. The
calculations concluded that there would be a shortage of about 20 percent at peak demand periods
if daily pumping was restricted to 14 hours/day.
2.   It was also assumed that the tubewell irrigation systems would be operated on a rotational
basis and, as power supply could be assured, the rotation period would be 7 or 14 days
depending on the cropping pattern. Field turn-outs were to be provided for half acre or one acre
plots and the farmers were expected to subdivide their plots into small irrigation basins. On level
fields, at least two basins per acre were recommended for heavy soils, 4 to 9 basins for medium
soils and up to 20 basins on coarse textured soils. The TA component was supposed to finalize
the most appropriate operational principles for typical project wells. It was even contemplated that
night storage reservoirs might be constructed to avoid the need for night irrigation.
3.    Consultant's Work. The Consultant's Final Report was submitted in October 1988 before
the first wells were electrified. It was therefore not possible for the Consultants to test and
demonstrate their ideas on irrigation system and 'on-farm' water management, or to demonstrate
their recommendations for land preparation. More importantly, planning and design assumptions
(summarized in para 1 above) were never confirmed by site measurements or monitoring of
operational wells. The Final Report simply re-stated (and expanded) the assumptions made at
appraisal, again assuming (not measured) that system conveyance efficiency would be 60 per
cent. The operational recommendations were analyzed theoretically by the Consultants who
concluded that the systems could not be operated to respond to likely variations in the dominant
design parameters, particularly those related to operational principles. Thus, the Consultants
recommended that " the water delivery organization must be simple, assuring that each plot gets
sufficient water for its crops." This would be achieved by rotation on a three or four weekly
period with gross water application of not less than 4 inches. It is concluded that this
recommended operation practice would result in a system efficiency substantially less than that
assumed in the design. On the other hand, the irrigation requirements calculated for the project
using Penman and an average seasonal cropping pattern are likely to be conservative for most
farmers.
PCR Project Performance Evaluation
4.    Irrigation Perforrnance. The rate of build up of irrigated area is about that assumed at
appraisal and as yet, with few exceptions, all tubewell systems are underutilized, enabling an 'on-
demand' operation. The few tubewells with high irrigated crop intensity do appear to be managed
on a rotational basis with the arrangement acceptable to (and manageable by) the water user



-29 -                                    Annex I
Page 1
groups. There are large differences in performance of tubewells on the same electrical network
(i.e. the same power supply) which cannot be explained, given that irrigation supplies are free at
present. Under such circumstances, it would be expected that farmers would over-use the
irrigation service, if for nothing else to reduce the risk on crops grown under rainfed conditions
on part of their holdings 1/
5.    To evaluate farmer's response to the project, the irrigated area for all individual tubewells
(on an electric network ring basis) was compared to the tubewell running hours (as measured
from the solid state hour meter installed at each tubewell). For both the wet and dry seasons in
1990/91 and 1991/92, this enabled the hours of irrigation per unit area irrigated to be calculated
(Tables 1 and 2 of this Annex). Since the wet season in 1990/91 was the first time that two of the
four power network rings were operational , the analysis enabled the farmers' response to
irrigation to be assessed over four sequential crop seasons for a large number of wells. For all
tubewell systems, the equivalent hours to irrigate one acre (assuming a one cusec source) has
substantially decreased over the two year period, until it is now about the magnitude assumed in
the project design (i.e., about 4 to 8 inches per irrigation per unit area). This means that at
present, farmers are irrigated reasonably efficiently since the average crop yields are about that
assumed for irrigated crops at appraisal and compare favorably with other part of Myanmar. This
may indicate that the tubewell irrigation systems are distributing water supplies at about the
conveyance efficiency assumed at appraisal (or that system efficiency and irrigation use are both
lo ver than expected).
6.    As yet the D  and AC have not produced additional data to compare irrigation and
agricultural performance. The data does indicate that farmers are making the recommended
number of irrigations which means that on-farm water management practices are reasonable. It
also indicates that most fields, presently being irrigated, must have been reasonably prepared for
irrigation.
7.    Agricultural Perfornance. The irrigated cropping patterns at the time of the PCR indicate
that farmers are still risk adverse and reluctant to invest in what they perceive to be speculative
crops requiring a high level of inputs (compared to rainfed agriculture). However, an
encouraging sign is the substantial increase in irrigated area in 1992/93 which may reflect to
greater incentives to farmers with the open market for all farm produce (detailed in Annex 1). One
problem is that local authorities have not been able to stop farmers growing paddy which has high
water demand. As demand for irrigation increases, the value (and scarcity) of water will increase
and paddy will have to be banned. Introduction of water charges (in the near future) should
encourage farmers to take into consideration the marginal value of water.
8.    It is concluded that, even with some start-up problems still to be resolved, the project
impact predicted at appraisal will be achieved at full development. However, there is a risk that
farmers incentives may change in Myanmar. Consequently, this PCR makes conservative
assumptions on the average impact of the project which, inter alia, take into account: (a) the
variation in soil and water quality which have, as yet, not been fully evaluated; (b) average O&M
of wells which can be expected with farmer management; and (c) the fact the most farmers are risk
adverse and thus unlikely to maximize irrigated agricultural production.
1/.  The consultantfs report (confirmed by the PCR mission) that the maturity rate of rainfed crops is about 40% for early
monsoon crops, some 80% for wheat and 90% for cotton. The main reason for failure is lack of moisture and pest
damage.



MYAN
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION I PROJECT
IRRIGATION PERlARMANCE
AREA IRRIGATED (&Lres) (1990-91 Wet Season)"                                                              lRRJGATION SERVICE
Tubewell Running Hours of Irrigation
Sesame                Paddy                       Couon               Greengram          Other Crops                    Hours
__    ___  __ __  __________________     ____            _________   __________               Total           Equivalent      Equivalent
Ring                                                                                                                   Area           one cusec By well one cusec
No.   I        11     T       I   11    IlI    T         I     nI     T        I      11     T      I     11     T   Irrigated ActualJ4  hours5/ hoursfi/ hoursl/
I                           . -  -  -    -       -      -      -      -      -      -       .           -            -    -    ---   -    -
2   362      147    509    37    32       -     69                          (5)             5    (5)            5      583   10831    16120    18.6   27.7
3   (81)    (55)   136                                                                                                 136    2596    5192    19.1   38.2
4              -     -       -     -      -                    -      -             -                     -     ------
Total  443      202    645    37    32             69                           5              5      5            5      719   13427   21312    18.7   29.6
-- -   - ---   -   -   -   -   -    - -   -   -  -           -
AREA IRRIGATED (acresl (1991-92 Wet Seasm)i                                                              IRRIGATION SERVICE
Tubewell Running Hours of Irfigation
Sesame                Paddy                       Cotton              Greengram           Other Crops                   Hours      per uea iniyated
__________ __   ____          __________________         Total           Equivalent      Equivalent
Ring                                                                                                                   Area           one cusec By well one cusec
No.   I       11      T     I        II    HI       T      I       n       T      I      I   T      I     11     T   Irrigated ActualJ  hours5J hours/  hours2/
1  (277)   (128)   405   (2)        (2)             4    (1)      (1)     2    (4)           4   (16)   (16)   32   447    4428         7025    10.0    15.7
2   424      176    600  256       249     96    601   (10)    (10)    20   (25)            25   (68)   (68)  136  1388   11087    17581         7.9    12.7
3   414       97    511    30       19             49   (81)    (80)   161   (44)           44  (203)  (203)  406  1171       6295    12405      5.4   10.6
4   340       81    421    35       34             69  (160)   (159)   319                   -  (81)   (80)  161   970    9239    13795          9.5    14.2
Total 1455    482   1937  323         304     96    723   252    250   502   (73)              73   368    365  735  3976   31049    50806          7.8    12.8
1/  Wet season is taken as pre-monsoon (January to April) and monsoon (May to August).
2/  Numbers in brackets are assumed breakdown of total area irrigated to reflect likely number of irrigation of crops.
S   I = first irnigation; II = second irrigation I1 = third irrigation; T = totalof area irrigated(i.e., I + n + 11 = T or I + If = T).
4J  Number of nuning hours of tubewells.
5j  Nunber of running hours of equivalent one cuec (i.e., two cusec tubewell counted double since two lateral are served at a time).
6/ Tubewell total naming hours divided by area irrigated.
21  Equivalent one cusec tubewell houring hours divided by area irrigated.



MYANMAR
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION I PROJECr
AREA IRRIGATED (sacs) (1990-91 Dry Se_ _on#                                                              IRRIGATION SERVICE
TubeweO Running      Hours of ITigation
Wheat                 Cotton                      Vegetables          Other Crops                               Hours             per urea irrisated
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ ___  Total  Equivalent    Equivalent
Ring                                                                                                        Area               one cusec    By well  one cusec
No.    I        1         T        I        0        T       I    0       T      I         II       T     Irrigated   Actual4/    hours5/   hoursb/    hoursl/
1     (99)     (64)      163                                                                               163      1293        1921        7.9       11.8
2    1319       863    2182    (10)        (9)      19                          (59)      (59)    118    2319    10371          16516       4.4        7.1
3    (578)    (379)      957                                                   (375)    (374)    749    1706    10205          20372        6.0       11.9
4    (109)      (71)     180                                                                                180      2365        3085      13.1       17.1
Total   2105      1377    3482    (10)        (9)      19                          434       433    867    4368    24234          41894        5.4        9.6
ALREA IRRIG' ATED (acresl (1991-92 Diy SU /                                                              IRRIGATION SERVICE
TubeweU Running      Hours of Irrigation
Wheat                 Cotton                      Vegetables          Other Crops                               Hours             per area irrigated
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ ___  Total  Equivalent            Equivalent
Ring                                                                                                        Area               one cusec    By well  one cusec
No.    I        O          T       I        O        T       I    11      T      I         O        T     Inrigated   ActualA/    hours5/   hoursk/   hoursJ/
1    (505)     (39)     544    (16)        (6)      22                           (3)       (1)      4      570       1508       2644        2.6        4.6
2     911        76      998      13                13                          (40)      (28)      68    1079      3872        6036        3.6        5.6
3     788        75      813     197       28      225                          (77)      (30)    107    1145       2375        4529        2.0        4.0
4     346        47      393     114        8      122   (8)           t 8      (10)       (4)      14     537       2930       4280        5.5        7.8
Total   2550       188    2748    340         42      382     8            8                          193    3331     10685       17489        3.2        5.2
1/  Dry season is taken as Septenber to Decanber.
2/ Number in brackets are assuned breakdown of total area irrigated to reflect likely number of irigations of crops.
J   I - Firstirrigation; ni = Second irigation; T = Totalof a   irrigated (i.e.  + 1 = T).
/ Nutnber of running hours of tubewells.
:J Numnber of running hours of equivalent one cusec (ie., two cusec tubewell counted double since two laterals are served at a Limc).
j  Tubewell total running hours divided by area irrigated.
2/  Equivalent one cusec tubewell runriing hours divided by area irrigated.



- 32-                                Annex 2
Page 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATTON PRO1ECT I
CREDIT 1381- BA
Details of PCR Financial and Economic Results
1.    Background. The project impact predicted at appraisal assumed an increase in agricultural
production and farm incomes through irrigation where no other economical water source would
be available. It was implicitly assumed that, under the project, farmers would substantially
increase their use of agricultural inputs and also go for higher return (but greater risk) crops. The
cropping pattem would be 'controlled' crops - including cotton, wheat and mung beans- which
would be procured by Govemment at below the crop export or import prices.
2.    It was also assumed that some 6,000 families would benefit from the project, each with a
holding of about 10 acres of which some 3 acres would be irrigated and 7 acres rainfed. In this
respect, the appraisal analysis assumed that all farmers would have similar size and type of
holdings. Thus, it was assumed that: (a) the project would directly impact on some 66,700 acres
(i.e., about 20,000 irrigated acres to served by the new and existing wells and a surrounding
rainfed area of some 46,700 acres); and (b) farmers would devote less time to their rainfed area
once the irrigation service was provided and thus there would be a small loss of rainfed
production to be offset against the increase in irrigated agricultural production.
3.    In addition, the appraisal analysis assumed that 2,150 acres were being (fully) irrigated
from the 25 existing diesel tubewells with a cropping intensity of some 120 percent. The main
change in farming practice in this existing irrigated area would be a substitution of irrigated
mugbeans for irrigated sesame on some 30 percent of the tubewell command areas. It was also
assumed that about 10 percent of the cultivable (rainfed) land would be used as right-of-way for
irrigation infrastructure and thus go out of production after the project works were completed.
4.    PCR Findings. Most of the socio-economic assumptions at appraisal (summarized above)
were not based on field surveys, but appear to simply repeat the analysis assumptions used in the
'pilot phase' feasibility report. Subsequent project supervision reports indicate that the existing
wells never provided a reliable irrigation service because of unpredictable fuel shortages and crop
yields were much lower than predicted because of shortages of other agricultural inputs.
Furthermore, agricultural production data collected through the project period (up to about 1990)
has been at best indicative, with considerable unexplainable variations in yields between wells and
was substantially less than that reported at appraisal. The performance records do show that
farmers tried (encouraged by the project) but never adopted mugbeans as an irrigated crop because
of the low financial retums. The various appraisal assumptions on land use and farmers'
response under the 'present' situation have not been confirmed by data collected during
implementation.
5.    The PCR analysis has therefore been based on 'actual' perforrnance data as recorded by
the ID and AC (mainly during the period 1990 to 1993). One problem, as yet unresolved, is the
lack of reliable performance data because project monitoring has not been carefully designed to
measure all variables affecting irrigated agricultural impact. Thus, variations in crop production
cannot be compared to the quality and quantity of irrigation service. It is not possible to predict
whether the irrigation service could limit the project impact.
6.    The PCR analysis has assumed that the operational wells (some 7 percent of the wells
have technical problems) will continue to perform as designed with the area irrigated and the



- 33 -                                    Annex 2
irrigation intensity building up to full development level over a five year period (i.e., about
1998/99) as farTners incentives exceed the risks of changing from rainfed to irrigated agriculture.
As would be expected given the risks involved, farmers will make the transition from rainfed to
(high value) irrigated agriculture cautiously.
Results
7 .    Impact at Full Development. The project agricultural impact at full development still
cannot be estimated with certainty since the last wells were energized early in 1991 and farmers'
response to irrigation is changing rapidly due to the new incentives created by free crop markets.
In addition, farmers are not yet being charged for water and thus it is not possible with certainty to
assess how they will react once water ceases to be a free in terms of use of irrigation and crops
grown.
9.    Financial Impact. Table 2 of this Annex indicates that the 'free market' crop prices should
continue to provide a strong incentive to farmers to maximize production, reflecting the rapid
expansion in irrigated area since 1991. The net income should also enable farmers to purchase the
full package of inputs necessary to optimize crop production (i.e., the level of inputs assumed in
the PCR analysis).
10.   Economic Impact. Table 3 of this Annex details the cost and benefit stream assumptions
used in calculating the ERR and NPV for the PCR. Five cases were considered reflecting a range
of assumptions on future O&M costs and the level and rate of build up of benefits. The base case
(Case A of Table 3) gives an ERR of about 8 percent and assumes that the caution shown by
farmers up to now will continue into the future. However, Case A is considered to be overly
conservative since it assumes that: (a) the irrigation intensity at full development will only reach
about 140 percent compared to 150 percent predicted at appraisal; (b) some 7 percent of the
tubewells will continue to be non-operational because of poor water quality and soils, or for
technical reasons; and (c) farmers will continue to put about 40 percent of the irrigated area to
irrigated sesame, giving low returns at low risk.
9.    Sensitivity Analysis. A sensitivity analysis was undertaken to test what would happen if
farmers reacted to the project irrigation service is a less conservative way. These tests show that
the project is not very sensitive to either variations in future O&M costs or moderate (but
achievable) increases in benefits. Three tests (Cases C, D and E) were designed to more fully
reflect the farmers' response to recent incentives created by the 'free market' for agricultural
produce which should encourage farmers to more fully utilize the irrigation service. Under these
circumstances, the most likely future scenario would be Case C, giving an ERR of about
10 percent. This case assume that farmers will: (a) substantially decrease their area to irrigated
sesame with a corresponding increase the area to irrigated wheat; and (b) also reduce the amount
of irrigation provided (once water charges are introduced) to less than that assumed at appraisal
(and used to estimate the base case O&M costs). Not tested but technically possible, is the
assumption that the project irrigated command area can be increased by expanding the irrigated
commands of individual tubewells beyond that fixed at the design stage. This has happened on
some tubewells and if repeated through the project area, it is estimated that the total project
irrigated command area could expanded by at least 10 percent without any detrimental effect on
the existing irrigated area. This action, if taken over the next five years, would increase the ERR
by a further two percentage points.



- 34 -
Annex2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT 1
1990 Financial and Economic Prices
Financial Prices                     Economic Prices
Unit       Weight    K/Unit       K/long ton    K/lb     K/long ton       K/lb
(lb)
Paddy             Basket       46.0       64.29        3,131       1.4        3,793          1.7
Wheat             Basket       72.0      147.3         4,583       2.0         1529          0.68
Cotton            Viss          3.6       10.00        6,222       2.8        5,605          2.5
Chillies (Dry)    Viss          3.6       40.29       25,070      11.2       12,535          5.6
Sesame            Basket       54.0      313.18       12,991       5.84       4,047          1.8
Pulses            Basket       69.0      240.00        7,792       3.5        3,892          1.7
Onion             Viss          3.6        8.66        5,389       2.4        2,695          1.2
Groundnut         Basket       25.0      108.64        9,734       4.4        2,829          1.3
Ferfilzer
Urea              Ton                                  2,160       0.96        1,568         0.70
TSP               Ton                                  1,900       0.85        1,605         0.72
Potash            Ton                                  1,000       0.45        1,350         0.60
Manure (Kyat/load)                        40.00                                              8.00
(lther Inpults
Paddy             Basket       46.0      100.00        4,870       2.2                       2.00
Cotton            Viss          3.6       10.00        6,222       2.8                       3.00
Chillies          Viss          3.6       50.00       31,111      13.9                       6.70
Sesame            Basket       54.0      350.00       14,519       6.5                       2.20
Pulses            Basket       69.0      250.00        8,115       3.6                       2.00
Onion             Viss          3.6       10.00        6,222       2.8                       1.50
Groundnut         Basket       25.0      120.00       10,752       4.8                       1.50
Wheat             Basket       72.0      177.0          5500       2.5                       0.08
Labor
Human Labor (Kyaz/day          18.0                                                          3.6
Animal Labor (Kyac/day)        45.0                                                          9.0
J/  Seed prices have a 20% premium in economic analysis.



PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
GROUNDWATER IRRJGAnION PRO1ECT I
FnaDcial Farm Budgets at Pull Developmmt a/ b/
-: Eiiiii - 1 : . . . . Rainfed Crops                                                       ___
Orsmd;           Loa"l                                          GO RsfcDd          j       TOWa
Rd    - arn           USesnl                       t          J          Pubs.  0iow  u          Wbeo   Paddy  CoUon  Chlils SesI      t Ples  OnN    A           Wbea   Wbat
Yield          lon/we                 1.51    0.69     0.15    0.1      0.31    2.72    1.29    1.50    0.62    0.1     0.13    0.05    0.17    2.07    072    0.3    0.60
Prodhcuo       tow                   1.51     0.69     0.15    0.1      0.31    2.72    1.29    1.50    0.62    0.1     0.13    0.05    0.17    2.07    0.72    0.30    0.60
Price           Kyat                 3131    6ZE    2507    12991    7792    5389   9734   4583   3131    6222  25070   12991    7792    5399   9734   4583   4583
Gro Value       Kyat                 4728    4        3761    2        1 241    14651   12557    6875   1941    1182   3259      650   1325   11155    7N1    1375    2751
Coas            Kyat                 1973    2054    2389    1225    1061    1902   2769    1675    1786    1088    1792         545     886    1921    2322    1158    1374
Not lcome       Kyai                 2755    2239    1371       85:    1354   12756    971     52        156      94    1467     185    43    9234    4687    217   1376
CroppedAm       Aae         _        2332    177       444   11360      357     444     774   11610              280      90    2070     310      90             460
With Proj"at
bigted Ar       Acre       29000
Cropped Ame    Acre        20700                                                                                                                                                                L
CL                c         140.1    3267    249       6Z   15915               622    1084   16265
Raifed Area    Acm          3500
Cropped Arn     Acre       20700
Cropping lnmity %            16.                                                                           0      47      15     350      52      15              78       0
5HaFam                               0.79     0.60     0.15    3.34    0.1      0.15    0.26    3.93    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.08    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.02    0.00
Adjusd C.P.                          0.79     0.60     0.15    3.       0.1     0.15    0.26    3.93                             1.02
Fa  Ieam        Kyas2 227                     1341                      164    1917   254   20422                          0     187       0       0       0       0       0       32187
Witxn Projecd
ReAted Area    Acre        2017700
Crpped Arem     Aae        20700
Croppg inesty %             200.1                                                                          0    165      532   12243    1833     532       0   2721        0
Sli FPam                             0.00     0.00     0.00    0.01    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.0i    0.0t    0.40    0.13    2.96    0.44    0.13    0.00    0.66    0.00
Adjuaed C.P.
FarmI noea   Kyat                       0                0        0               0       0       0        0     38      189     311    29      1187   0         143       0        2061
x/ See Anmex 1 Table I for fiancial pric  and mumpti o
b/ For a typica 5 bha. Tigated fLm.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Project ERR and NPV Al
Case A                           Case                              Case C   -    -      -      -   CaseD                              CaE   = 
Year           Not  Bcadil                       NO B_ e_tt               Costs   Ict  B6nCft              Cow    1n-t -rcent                Coss  Imet  Bctoiit
Colts Bnefits Strewm  ERR  NPV  Costs BaKfits Strewn  ERR- NPV           Benrfils StIea   ERR  NPV         Benefits Stresam   RR  NPV      Bleneits Stream  ERR  NPV
TWi  W  T               % SM  wi SM SM                        S M  sm SM SM SM                    S %                        % SM  ST   TW   1
1983    0.89  -0.39  -1.28 0.08 -20.42   0.89   0.00  -0.89  0.09 -13.02   0.89   0.00  -0.89 0.095  -0.21   0.89   0.00  -0.89 0.099  7.01    0.9   0.00   -0.89 0.110 25.96
1984    12.45  -0.24  -12.69             12.45   0.00  -12 45              12 45   0.00  -1 2.45            12.45   0.00  -12.45               12.5   0.65  -11.80
1985    43.62   0.40  -43.22             43.62   0.65  -42.97              43.62   0.65  -42.97             43.62   0.65  -42.97              43.6   1.83  -41.79
1986   41.34   1.57  -39.77              41.34   1.83  -39.51             41.34   1.83  -39.51              41.34   1.83  -39.51              41.3   1.76  -39.58
1987    39.07   1.51  -37.56             39.07   1.76  -37.31              39.07   1.76  -37.31             39.07   1.76  -37.31               39.1   1.94  -37.13
19,,8    30.59   1.54  -29.05            30.59   1.94  -28.65              29.59   1.94  -27.65             29.59   1.94  -27.65               29.6   1.86  -27.73
1989    31.09   1.86  -29.23             31.09   1.86  -29.23              30.09   1.86  -28.23             30.09   1.86  -28.23               30.1   2.58  -27.51
1990    16.35   2.58  -13.77             16.35   2.58  -13.77              15.35   2.58  -12.77             15.35   2.58  -12.77               15.4   4.77  -10.58
1991    7.50   4.77  -2.73                7.50   4.77  -2.73                6.5   4.77   -1.73                6.5   4.77   -1.73               6.5  16.31   9.81
1992    9.42  16.31   6.89                9.42  16.31   6.89                8.42  16.31   7.89               8.42  16.31   7.89                 8.4  23.02   14.60
1993    6.00  23.02  17.02                5.00  23.02  17.02                5.00  23.02  18.02               5.00  23.02  18.02                 4.0  27.05  23.05
1994    6.20  27.05  20.85                5.00  27.05  20.85                5.00  27.05  22.05               5.00  27.05  22.05                4.2  35.71   31.51
1995    6.30  32.46  26.16                5.10  34.08  27.78               5.10  35.71  30.61                5.10  35.71  30.61                4.3  37.49  33.19
1996    6.40  36.63  30.23                5.10  38.46  32.06                5.10  40.29  35.19               5.10  40.29  35.19                4.5  45.50  41.00
1997    8.80  38.64  29.84                7.80  40.57  31.77                7.80  42.50  34.70               7.80  45.50  37.70                7.8  46.60  38.80
1998    8.80  38.54  29.74                7.80  40.47  31.67               7.80  42.39  34.59                7.80  46.60  38.80                7.8  47.60  39.80
1999    8.80  38.87  30.07                7.80  40.81  32.01               7.80  42.76  34.96                7.80  47.60  39.80                7.8  48.60  40.80
2000     8.80  40.27  31.47               7.80  4Z28  33.48                 7.80  44.30  36.50               7.80  48.60  40.80                 7.8  48.60  40.80
2001     6.4  41.27  34.87                 5.2  43.33  36.93                 5.2  45.40  40.20                5.2  48.60  43.40                 5.0  48.60  43.60
2002     6.4  41.77  35.37                 5.2  43.86  37.46                 5.2  45.95  40.75                5.2  48.60  43.40                 5.1  48.60  43.50
2003     6.4  42.27  35.87                 5.2  44.38  37.98                 5.2  46.50  41.30                5.2  48.60  43.40                 5.2  48.60  43.40
2004     6.4  4Z27  35.87                  5.2  44.38  37.98                 5.2  46.50  41.30                5.2  48.60  43.40                 5.2  48.60  43.40
2005     6.4  42.27  35.87                 5.2  44.38  37.98                 5.2  46.50  41.30                5.2  48.60  43.40                 5.2  48.60  43.40
2006     6.4  42.27  35.87                 5.2  44.38  37.98                 5.2  46.50  41.30                5.2  48.60  43.40                 5.2  48.60  43.40
2007     6.4  42.27  35.87                 5.2  44.38  37.98                 5.2  46.50  41.30                5.2  48.60  43.40                 5.2  48.60  43.40
2008     6.4  42.27  35.87                 5.2  44.38  37.98                 5.2  46.50  41.30                5.2  48.60  43.40                 5.2  48.60  43.40
2009     6.4  4Z27  35.87                  5.2  44.38  37.98                 5.2  46.50  41.30                5.2  48.60  43.40                 5.2  48.60   43.40
2010     6.4  42.27  35.87                 5.2  44.38  37.98                 5.2  46.50  41.30                5.2  48.60  43.40                 5.2  48.60   43.40
2011      6.4  4Z27  35.87                 5.2  44.38  37.98                 5.2  46.50  41.30                5.2  48.60  43.40                 5.2  48.60  43.40
2012      6.4  42.27  35.87                5.2  44.38  37.98                 5.2  46.50  41.30                5.2  48.60  43.40                 5.2  48.60   43.40
2013      6.4  42.27  35.87                5.2  44.38  37.98                 5.2  46.50  41.30                5.2  48.60  43.40                 5.2  48.60   43.40
2014      6.4  42.27  35.87                5.2  44.38  37.98                 5.2  46.50  41.30                5.2  48.60  43.40                 5.2  48.60   43.40
2015      6.4  42.27  35.87                5.2  44.38  37.98                 5.2  46.50  41.30                5.2  48.60  43.40                 5.2  48.60   43.40
2016 on    6.4  42.27  35.87                5.2  44.38  37.98         _       52  46.50  41.30_                5.2  48 60  43.40                 5.2  48.60   43401
Case A: Base Case
Case B: 5 parcent incease in benefri strean (inaease in yields); 20 perCImt reduction in O&M costs to reflect actual lower imgation rates.
Case C: 10 percet inaease in benefit strean (decease in we to seane and inaease in whet - higher incorne crop); 20 percent reduction in O&M costs.
Case D: 15 percent increase in benefit strewn (decrease in area to sesame nd increase in wheat - higher income crp); 20 percent reduction in O&M costs.
Case E: As in Case D above, bat full benefits achieved one year enrlier.












I



IBRD 16852R1
V.l:  /wgn                                                                                              '1/\/C      // !                  X
//sts o7 Dny     Budhlr Iay,I(\J/|/      I / /     ////           ,/
1~~~~~~~~                                                                  ~~  ~ ~~~OYAr ss /, ./ /// /  , i  /  i 
//''               /7'           \    2      1   
MYANMAR                                                                            I                                                ,
Thin ,nap han been   22015 '                                                                                                     22v1'
Thisn,cphos oon  repa red
by The World Bank.* staff
*ulseyfor the conv.,trc.
of readrsPand                         B for the                                                      ega
W-trna use of The World Bank
Gnoup The denomi-htons uned
and  the  bo-nd-riB sho-                                          A 
on this mop do not imply an the
port of Ts World Bank Group,
.ny judln,nt on the egcl
sttS.oyterritory or any3K
endo"aenrent or oeCeOptOn. ofK
juch boundares
'I SALINGYI    
MYANMAR
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
PROJECT AREA
--PROJECT BOUNDARY
o3     NEW 33/11 KV SUBSTATION, 1.5 MVA
.--.NEW  33 KV TRANSMISSION LINEJ
22a. 0--r-- NEW  11 KV DISTRIBUTION                                                                                  V
A      EXISTING 33/11 KVSUBSTATION
- *    *   EXISTING 33 KV TRANSMISSION  LINE
EXISTING 11 KV DISTRIBUTION( 70mm ACSR)
GROUNDWATER LEVEL(Feetl                               O.
-    -  -   TOWNSHIP BOUNDARIES                                                                             aung
ROADS                                                             Amyin
-      RAILWAYS
RIVERS
H,, 1/7, HILLS                                                                 hwegu
---    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
0               5              10              15
KILOMETERS __              '_'______
MILES
0           5                        ~~~~~~~~~~10/
1000 i5sfrA                                                            Tao Se,hngy,    15
MAY 1993






IBRD 16853R
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r o
'I-
Ares
r,.                                   _~~~~~~~~~V               ...... 
--                                   .       ...f.     ...
This mop ho. been  prepord                                                    .............
by The  World  BonkIs staff                                                                      _ 1 ......
eucluxsi~oy for the co-ien,.ce
of eod-  ond  is for the
intemol use of The World Book
Group.The denommnoloos wsd .u..e..
o2 d        bod    nundctin Ae  e            b
on thi mop do not impl,, on the
Port of The World Sonk Group.
ony judgmet on the legol
stftus of ony territory oron.
aodors.nreot or cceptance of
such boundorans 
~~~ J~~~        514 M; -A
MYA,NMAR
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
PROJECT BOUNDARY
ROADS
RAILWAYS
TOWNSHIP BOUNDARIES
SOI LS(TUBEWE LL PROJECT I AREA)
Active floodplain: varile soils. aubjact to rive rd
L   .   flooding and erosion.
22'000                    Inundation flodplain: variable soils, subact to                                                                                            224n  -
F    i   *lengthy seasonal flooding.                                                          2
Well drained l adium textured soIls on recnt and
young alluvi um; smooth, ner Ival land(0 - 2 %)
Moderately slowly drained, fine textured solls on i  rcnt to                                                                3 |
o ld alluvium; ssm,ootht, near l  dvel landlO -2%) ; flooding abeent    ,
or insignificant                                                             2
FE:-: :3d soils subjt to Intermittent smeaonal flooding 7
Ver slowly drained, vertic, dark clay. an recent to ancient
ru  alluvium; wmooth, near level lendlo -2%)n
Moderately to wall drained rmadium to fine textured red brown soils w
E     High terraces                                                              ) \           
nStnding water, including wmt, excavn    lath I  nd.    l      _ -2/
KILOMETERS?                                  10 5p                                                . . . . . .
MLS0                        5                        10                         )\   
MAY 19r93



