Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3576-BA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 13.0 MILLION
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE
UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
May 18, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1.00 Kyat = US$ 0.13
K 7.80    = US$ 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 inch                                =       2.540 centimeters (cm)
1 foot (ft)                           =       0.305 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                           =       1.609 kilometers (km)
I acre (ac)                           =       0.4047 hectares (ha)
1 square mile (sq mile)               =       2.59 square kilometers (sq km)
1 lb/acre (lb/ac)                     =       1.121 kilograms/hectare (km/ha)
1 pound (lb)                          =       0.454 kilograms (kg)
1 ton (long ton -2,240 lbs)           =       1.106 metric tons (ton)
1 imperial gallon (Ig)                =       4.546 liters (1)
1 kilowatt (kW)                       =       1,000 watts (103W)
1 Megawatt (MW)                       =       1,000 kilowatts (103kW)
1 kilovolt (kV)                       =       1,000 volts (103V)
1 kilowatt-hour (kWh)                 =       1,000 watt-hours (103kWh)
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)                 =       1,000,000 kilowatt-hours (106kWh)
1 Megavolt-ampere (MVA)               =       1,000 kilo volt ampere (106kVA)
1 cubic foot/second (cusec)           =       0.025 cubic meters/second
1 acre foot (ac ft)                   =       1,233 cubic meters (m3)
1 viss (Burmese measure of weight)  =         3.60 lbs or 1.63 kg



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AC         -    Agriculture Corporation
AMD        -    Agricultural Mechanization Department
ARD        -    Applied Research Division (of Agriculture Corporation)
EPC        -    Electric Power Corporation
ERR        -    Economic Rate of Return
GOB        -    Government of Burma
GRP        -    Glass Reinforced Plastic
HYV        -    High Yielding Variety
ICB        -    International Competitive Bidding
ID         -    Irrigation Department
K          -    Kyat
kW         -    kilowatt
kWh        -    kilowatt hour
LS Cotton  -    Long Staple Cotton
MAB        -    Myanma Agricultural Bank
MAF        -    Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MOP        -    Muriate of Potash
NPV        -    Net Present Value
OCC        -    Opportunity Cost of Capital
O&M        -    Operation and Maintenance
PS         -    Prudent Shopping
PSC        -    Project Steering Committee
PV         -    Present Value
SCF        -    Standard Conversion Factor
SMS        -    Subject Matter Specialist
SS Cotton  -    Short Staple Cotton
SV         -    Switching Value
TEM        -    Township Extension Manager
TIC        -    Textile Industries Corporation
TSP        -    Triple Super Phosphate
UNDP       -    United Nations Development Programme
VEM        -    Village Extension Manager
*               VTEM       -    Village Tract Extension Manager
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



a



BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       The Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
Amount:          Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) 13.0 million (US$14.0 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
Project
Description:   The project area includes parts of three townships, Monywa,
Chaung U and Budalin, which are located in the dry zone of
central Burma. The proposed project entails the construction
of about 106 new deep tubewells and the corresponding irrigation
and drainage systems. These new tubewells together with 25
existing wells would be electrified by a separate distribution
system to be constructed under the project. It is expected
that 28 of these new tubewells would have a discharge of
one cusec and 78, two cusecs, and that the net irrigable
command area would be about 97 acres per one cusec at full
development. The wells would be spread over a gross area
of about 130 sq. miles (83,200 acres), of which about
20,000 ac would be commanded by the project tubewells.
The project would provide for agricultural support including
extension, applied research, fertilizers and chemicals. The
project will also make provision for technical assistance and
training. About 6,000 farm families would benefit directly from
the project. At full development the total net incremental
production of the project would reach about 5,400 tons of seed
cotton, 10,400 tons of wheat and 6,500 tons of mung beans-.
For the average farm household whose farm would be partly
irrigated by the new tubewells, annual net farm income is
expected to increase by about 160%. The project would also
assist GOB's efforts to diversify crop production while
increasing the value of non-paddy cash crops. There are no
serious risks associated with the project since it is based
on proven approaches developed during the four-year Pilot
Phase.



-ii-
(US$ Million Equivalent) /a
Estimated Cost:                                       Local    Foreign    Total
Project Components
Tubewells and Associated Works
Well Construction                     1.3        1.7       3.0
Water Distribution and Drainage    4.4           1.6       6.0
Engineering Administration           0.6          -        0.6
Power and Supply Systems             2.6         2.6       5.2
O&M of Constructed Works             0.5         0.3       0.8
Agricultural Support
Agricultural Extension and
Applied Research                   0.3         0.2       0.5
Fertilizer and Chemicals              -          1.5       1.5
Technical Assistance and
Training                           0.1         0.9       1.0
Total Baseline Costs         9.8         8.8     18.6
Physical Contingencies               0.8         0.2       1.0
Price Contingencies                  1.2         1.2       2.4
Total Project Costs         11.8        10.2     22.0
Financing Plan:                                       (US$ Million Equivalent)
Local    Foreign    Total
IDA                                  3.8        10.2      14.0
Government of Burma                  8.0          -        8.0
Total                           11.8        10.2      22.0
Estimated                                     (US$ Million Equivalent)
Disbursement:                                     IDA Fiscal Year
FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89
Annual            1.3      4.4     4.5      2.3      1.2     0.3
Cumulative        1.3     5.7    10.2    12.5    13.7    14.0
Economic Rate
of Return:      22%
Staff Appraisal
Report:         4323-BA
Map:             IBRD 16852R
/a Includes duties and taxes amounting to US$3.1 million. The total project
cost net of duties and taxes amount to US$18.9 million.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
FOR A GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
1.        I submit the following report and recommendatioi- for a proposed
Development Credit to the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma for
Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) 13 million (US$14 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to help finance a Groundwater Irrigation Project I.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The latest economic report entitled, "Burma:  Priorities for
Continued Growth" (Report No. 3852-BA, dated May 7, 1982) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on May 10, 1982. Country data are shown in Annex I.
3.      The present leadership of Burma assumed the responsibilities of
Government (GOB) in 1962 and vested authority in a revolutionary council.
The Constitution was adopted in a nationwide referendum in December 1973, and
under it, the Pyithu Hluttaw (People's Assembly) was created with supreme
executive, legislative, and judicial authority. The Burma Socialist Program
Party (BSPP) was confirmed as the only authorized political party. The
Government's guiding philosophy stated in the 1962 document entitled The
Burmese Way to Socialism reflects a combination of traditional Burmese values
and socialist doctrine. Its economic objectives are set out in the Twenty-
Year Plan, which was adopted by the BSPP in 1972 and is being implemented
through a succession of Four-Year Plans. U Ne Win, who had been President
since 1962, announced his resignation just prior to the national election in
November 1981 and was succeeded by U San Yu, former Secretary General of the
BSPP. Insurgency remains a problem, particularly in the hills and border
areas, although there is definitely greater territorial control by the
Government now than at any time since Independence in 1948.
4.      During the 1960s and the early 1970s, the Government made substantial
progress in the attainment of its social and political goals, particularly in
terms of extending public ownership and Burmese control of economic
institutions. On the other hand, economic performance suffered over this
period, the major features being slow growth, a fall in domestic savings and
a shrinking of the external sector. In recognition of this poor economic
1/ Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as in the Presi-
dent's Report (Report No. P-3558-BA) dated May 5, 1983 for the Third Port
Project in Burma. The report was distributed to the Executive Directors
under cover of the Secretary's memorandum IDA/R83-59.



-2-
performance, the Government came up with a new development strategy in 1972
with the publication of the Twenty-Year Plan. The main objectives of the
Plan are to foster economic growth within the context of a socialist system,
to enhance economic strength and self-sufficiency by converting from an
agricultural to an agriculture-based industrial society, to eliminate
unemployment and to reduce income disparities. The main elements of this
strategy are: (a) to give higher priority initially to the directly
productive sectors, especially to agriculture, forestry, and mining; (b) to
make greater use of aid and trade; (c) to follow a price stabilization
program which emphasizes cost reduction, through increased efficiency in
industry and technical change in agriculture; and (d) introduce work
incentives and commercial principles, especially in the State Economic
Enterprises (SEEs).
5.      A wide range of policy reforms followed the publication of the
Twenty-Year Plan. While pricing policy still reflected the desire to provide
basic consumer goods cheaply and to prevent inflation, procurement prices of
a variety of agricultural products were raised substantially to improve the
economic position of the farmer. In industry, the Government increased the
ex-factory prices for many of the SEEs. Meanwhile, the official exchange
rate was devalued and the interest rate on savings deposits raised. In
addition to these pricing reforms the Government introduced a major tax
reform designed to restore the country's public finance to a sound basis.
6.      In part, as a result of these measures, and in part as a result of
favorable weather and increased capital inflows, GDP during the Second
Four-Year Plan (1974/75-1977/78) increased by an annual average of 4.7%,
compared to 2.7% in the previous decade. Gross fixed capital formation
increased by about 8% per annum in real terms, and domestic savings as a
percent of GDP also increased. The improved budgetary provision of the
Government lessened its dependence on the banking system, which, in turn,
contributed to a reduction in the rate of inflation.
7.      The growth momentum was sustained through the Third Four Year Plan
period (1978/79-1981/82). During this time, Burma achieved an average annual
GDP growth of 6.5% in real terms, accompanied by rising exports and stable
prices. This favorable performance has been largely due to (a) steadily
rising agricultural production, resulting mainly from the Government's
introduction of high-yielding varieties; (b) higher capacity utilization
primarily in industry; and (c) rapid increases in investment, particularly in
the public sector.
8.      The Government's introduction of an agricultural intensification
program, the Whole Township Extension Program, has contributed to a
revitalization of agriculture in Burma in recent years. Program coverage for
paddy expanded from 2% of paddy-sown area in 1977/78 to 51% in 1981/82;
during this period, paddy production increased by about 50%. The Program has
also been extended to other crops, including groundnuts, maize, wheat,
sesame, cotton, beans and pulses with good results. The Program has a number
of unique features which have contributed to its success, including the



-3-
participation of the People's Councils in coordinating production and
procurement, selectivity and concentration through a campaign approach,
mobilization of the community to provide additional labor and priority
provision of consumer goods to program areas to complement rising incomes.
The focus of the Government's agricultural program over the next few years
will be on the consolidation of past gains in paddy, with particular emphasis
on quality improvements in export rice, and further extension of the Whole
Township Extension Program to non-paddy crops. There are indications that
the dramatic increases in agricultural production in recent years have
highlighted the bottlenecks in complementary transportation, handling,
storage and milling facilities. In the coming years, the Government will
have to deal with these bottlenecks through investments in additional
capacity.
9.     Benefiting from increased domestic supplies of agricultural raw
materials as well as from a steady growth of intermediate good imports,
capacity utilization in the light and agro-based industries in the public
sector has improved. The increased level of economic activity during this
period is also reflected in the higher gross domestic capital formation. The
share of investment in GDP in constant prices increased from 15% in 1978/79
to 17% in 1981/82. On the other hand, the rapid expansion of public
investment, which accounts for 70% of the total, has been largely responsible
for the widening in the overall budgetary deficit from 10% of GDP in 1978/79
to an estimated 17% in 1981/82. Public savings have shown only a modest
growth, and the increasing deficit has been financed by large increases in
external assistance and domestic credit.
10.     Over the same period, merchandise exports increased in nominal terms
by 19% per annum, though the export growth in 1981/82, the last year of the
Third Four Year Plan period, was adversely affected by a sharp decline in the
international price of rice. Merchandise imports increased in current prices
by 20% annually. The current account deficit stabilized at about 6% of GDP,
and net disbursements of loans at around US$350-400 million a year. The
relatively small current account deficit reflects the Government's
conservative approach to balance-of-payments management, not the real import
needs of the country. The Government controls all imports through a foreign
exchange budget, drawn up in accordance with anticipated financing. Although
foreign exchange availabilities have improved, shortages of imported
intermediate and consumer goods still remain.
11.     The Government's planned annual GDP growth for the Fourth Four Year
Plan is 6.2%. In order to attain this ambitious target, the Government needs
to achieve: (a) continued success in the development of the agricultural
sector; (b) further improvements in capacity utilization especially in
industry; (c) a judicious choice of investment projects; and (d) sufficient
resources - both foreign and domestic - to expand the investment program at
the required rate. Over the medium term, rice exports will undoubtedly
continue to be the mainstay for Burma's foreign exchange earnings. However,
the Government's longer term strategy is to broaden the country's export base
through agricultural diversification and promotion of agro-based industries,



-4-
to reduce Burma's reliance on rice and teak and to insulate the economy
progressively from the international price fluctuations of less processed
primary commodity exports.
12.     Moreover, in order to maintain the growth momentum, the Government
will need to expand absorptive capacity for external assistance by
emphasizing institution building and management development to a much greater
extent than in the past. The Burmese planning and administrative system, as
it now exists, is complex and rigid in its manner of operation and appears to
focus excessively on the formulation of targets. Streamlining of the entire
planning and administrative apparatus, decentralization of decision-making,
and strengthening of the capability of Government entities to prepare and
implement projects are urgently needed.
13.     Burma's debt service ratio increased from 13% in the 1977/78 to about
28% in 1981/82, due primarily to a substantial increase in the loans from
private financial institutions and suppliers' credits. By March 1982,
Burma's external public debt, disbursed and outstanding, was approximately
US$1.6 billion. Burma's exports have been showing steady growth in recent
years, but the prospects over the medium term is less favorable. According
to the World Bank's price projections, Burma's terms of trade which had
deteriorated during the last two years would, at best, recover slowly over
the next four years. Moreover, because of the rising debt service burden
and because of Burma's low income level, external assistance should continue
to be on concessionary terms and should, in addition, finance part of local
cost requirements which cannot, at present, be covered adequately by domestic
savings. Local cost financing is particularly needed for the agricultural
sector where most investments have a low foreign exchange component.
14.     Burma is potentially one of the richest countries in South Asia.
Apart from an impressive natural resource base, it is endowed with a
relatively healthy and literate population. The crucial question is the
quality with which these resources will be managed and developed. The Bank
continues to discuss with the Government further improvements in economic
management (paras 12 and 18) which would help Burma realize its promising
potential for economic development as well as external assistance
requirements. Discussions on these topics are carried on jointly with other
donors and the IMF during the Burma Aid Group meetings which the Bank has
organized at the Government's request. The first meeting of the Group was
held on November 30, 1976, in Tokyo; and there have been four subsequent
meetings, with indications of increasing donor support each year.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
15.     Burma became a member of the Bank in 1952, IFC in 1956, and IDA in
1962. Between 1956 and 1961, the Bank made three loans totaling US$33.1
million, all for transportation projects. One loan for the Port of Rangoon
helped finance the reconstruction of cargo berths and storage facilities, and



-5-
the purchase of cargo handling and port equipment. Two loans helped finance
the post-war reconstruction and dieselization of the railways. All three
projects were satisfactorily completed and the loans fully disbursed by FY68.
16.     No lending was requested between 1962 and 1972.  IDA lending resumed
in 1973 and since then 20 credits totaling about US$536 million equivalent
(net of cancellations) have been made. About 60% of this assistance was for
the agricultural sector, consisting of twelve projects: irrigation pumps,
rubber, livestock, seed development, two paddyland development projects,
grain storage, two forestry projects, a wood industries project, the Kinda
Dam multipurpose project, and a tank irrigation project. About 12% of IDA's
assistance supported the rehabilitation of the transport sector through four
projects, namely inland water transport, railways, a second ports project and
a construction industry project. The remaining 28% of IDA assistance has
been for two projects in the telecommunications sector (10%), one project in
the mining sector (3%) and a power project (15%). Six credits have been
fully disbursed so far. On the resumption of operations 4n 1973 there were
some difficulties with disbursement performance. However, performance has
improved considerably particularly as agencies, such as the Irrigation
Department, have become more familiar with the Bank's procedures. In
general, IDA-financed projects have been carried out satisfactorily. The
proposed Credit would be the third in FY83. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IDA Credits as of March 31, 1983, and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects. IFC has made no investments in Burma.
17.     In the past, lending was partly constrained by incomplete knowledge
of some sectors and the lack of adequately prepared projects. Through the
ongoing projects and sector work, the Bank's knowledge of many sectors has
improved. A US$4.1 million UNDP technical assistance project (Burma Umbrella
Project), for which the Bank is the executing agency, has developed a project
pipeline suitable for external financing in priority sectors such as
agriculture, transport, power, and industry. Several projects, namely, Seed
Development, Rubber Rehabilitation, Power, Construction Industry and
Groundwater Irrigation were prepared under the Umbrella Project, which is now
in its third phase. Furthermore, the Association plans to continue its
technical assistance on a project-by-project basis to help improve Burmese
project preparation and implementation capabilities, as well as
administrative and managerial skills through in-service and overseas
training.
18.     The Bank Group strategy is aimed at easing the most immediate
constraints to growth and, particularly, at increasing and diversifying
production for export in order to alleviate the shortage of foreign exchange.
Within this overall strategy, primary emphasis is being placed on the
development of agriculture, forestry, and to a lesser extent, mining. Within
this framework and where possible, priority is being given to quick-yielding
projects. At the same time, financing of infrastructure improvements will
continue in the development of power and such areas as transportation,
telecommunications, and construction, mainly to rehabilitate and maximize
utilization of existing facilities.



-6-
19.     In line with the need to increase Burma's foreign exchange earnings,
many of the projects under active preparation are designed to have an impact
on increasing agricultural surpluses for export. Projects under preparation
include paddy development, tubewells, rubber rehabilitation, textiles
finishing plant and an integrated export commodity transport project.
20.     The Bank Group currently accounts for about 15% of Burma's total
external debt outstanding and about 1% of its debt service. In five years,
the Bank Group's share in the total external debt is projected to rise to
about 20% and its share in the debt service to about 2-3%.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture
21.     Agriculture, including livestock, forestry and fisheries, continues
to be the principal sector of the Burmese economy, accounting directly for
about 45% of GDP, 65% of the labor force, and 80% of total exports in
1981/82. Rice, the major agricultural and export commodity, is also a
significant source of government revenue through implicit taxation from
GOB-controlled pricing and exportation. Rice is planted on over 50% (13
million ac) of the total sown area (25 million ac) and accounts for more than
one-third of total agricultural output. Other main crops include sesame (15%
of the gross sown area), pulses (8%), groundnuts (5%), industrial crops (5%),
and plantation crops (5%). As a major export item, rice accounted for 77% of
agricultural export revenue in 1981/82, followed by blackgram (6%), jute
(6%), rubber (5%) and oilcakes (3%).
22.     During the 1960s and early 1970s, value added in agriculture rose
at only about 1.6% p.a., well below the prevailing 2.2% population growth
rate, and as a result the rice export surplus declined to less than 200,000
tons compared to more than 3 million tons pre-war. This unsatisfactory
performance can be attributed to a number of inter-related factors, including
unsettling changes in land policy, inadequate farmer incentives and the
initial failures of imported high yielding paddy varieties which proved
ill-adapted to local conditions.
23.     Faced with this situation, the government responded in two principal
ways. First, beginning in 1973/74, a series of policy reforms were
undertaken designed to improve incentives and provide for greater flexibility
in the farming sector: for instance, procurement prices were substantially
increased; mandatory procurement quotas were reduced; certain commodities
were decontrolled; there was a major tax and exchange reform; and Government
greatly increased its willingness to accept foreign assistance. Secondly,
emphasis was placed on evolving HYVs adapted to local conditions and
promoting their use, together with subsidized agricultural inputs, through a
major new government program (the Whole Township Extension Program). By and
large these policies have proved successful. Despite only limited further
price increases, incentives have been sufficient to encourage the adoption of



-7-
HYVs through the Whole Township Program. Consequently, between 1974/75 -
1981/82, paddy production increased from 8.4 million tons to 13.9 million
tons, and the overall growth in agricultural value-added averaged no less
than 7.2% per annum.
24.     Further production increases are no doubt possible through
intensification of areas already planted to HYVs and area expansion through,
for instance, low cost rehabilitation and land reclamation programs. There
is also considerable potential for crop diversification, and the Whole
Township program has been extended to other crops, in particular maize and
wheat and oilseeds.  Industrial crops, such as cotton, are also being given
greater attention and there is considerable potential for increased
production of horticultural crops, tree crops, livestock and fisheries. A
major GOB policy objective is to reduce dependance on rice exports in the
face of uncertain market prospects, in part through crop diversification.
25.     Nevertheless, while the prospects appear good, further increases in
paddy yields and a major crop diversification program will inevitably prove
more difficult to achieve than the past introduction of the highly profitable
HYV paddy technologies. The Government remains committed to a strong public
role in input supply, marketing and procurement and, through the People's
Councils, closely supervises the overall cropping pattern. However, if the
momentum achieved in recent years is to be sustained, GOB will need to keep
its general policy framework under close scrutiny in order to provide a basis
for further timely policy adjustments.
26.     In support of GOB's development strategy, IDA-assisted projects in
irrigation, flood protection and rubber have made a notable contribution in
increasing the planted area and further facilitating widespread adoption of
HYVs. IDA will continue to assist government in consolidating past gains in
paddy production while increasing efforts to diversify into non-paddy crops,
for instance through the crops to be promoted under the proposed projects.
In the context of its general economic reporting, IDA will also keep general
policy issues under review and will aim to broaden its dialogue on those
policy adjustments necessary to sustain rapid agricultural growth.
Irrigation Sub-sector
27.     Irrigation has been an important feature of Burmese agriculture for
many centuries. Burmese kings built river diversion and tank schemes in the
central dry zone and many new schemes were built during the colonial period.
The most notable of these were the flood control schemes in the Irrawaddy and
Sittang deltas, which significantly increased paddy cultivation and developed
Burma into a major rice-exporting country. Nevertheless, large potential
still exists for further irrigation development. In 1981/82, total irrigated
area was 2.6 million ac, only about 10% of the total cultivated area. Of
this irrigated area, only 14% was double-cropped.
28.     The main sources of irrigation water are river diversion schemes
(serving a total irrigable area of at least 1.6 M ac), dams and reservoirs



-8-
(serving around 190,000 ac) and pump schemes (serving about 380,000 ac) and
other (about 430,000 ac). In central dry zone of Burma, lack of reliable
irrigation water is one of the major constraints in increasing agricultural
production. Although rivers in the area could offer possibilities of pump
irrigation, seasonal fluctuations in river flows are so large that any lift
irrigation scheme would be extremely costly and technically difficult. In
the absence of reliable and economic source of surface water for irrigation,
groundwater provides the best alternative. The technical and economic
viability of groundwater irrigation in the project area was established
during the Pilot Phase (paras 33-34). Groundwater has traditionally been
exploited as a source of irrigation water through the use of maung dets --
buckets at one end of a pivoting arm that are lowered into shallow wells
through levers. More recently, Burmese farmers have begun using small
diesel-driven pumps to irrigate from shallow dug wells. These systems of
using groundwater are only effective where the water table is fairly near the
surface -- within about 20 ft of ground level. They do not normally yield
discharges of more than 0.5 cusec and are usually only used to irrigate small
areas for high-value crops such as vegetables or paddy nurseries. The
shallow dug wells currently provide irrigation water for about 39,000 ac, or
1.5% of the total irrigable area. Prior to 1977, when the Pilot Phase
started, deeper irrigation tubewells were not in use. Consequently, deep
tubewells are expected to play a significant role particularly in crop
diversification and regional balance in Burma's future agricultural
development.
29.     IDA has been closely involved in the accelerated activity in the
irrigation sector having thus far invested in a total of five projects, one
of which has been completed. IDA's overall investment strategy for the
irrigation sector has been designed to meet two primary objectives: (i) to
begin by providing quick yielding assistance to help increase national paddy
output through the financing of relatively simple projects; (ii) to
contribute to increasing the absorptive capacity of the Irrigation Department
to enable it to manage larger and more complex projects over time.
Accordingly the first irrigation project (Cr. 483-BA, US$17 million) was
designed to finance some 13,000 low-lift pumps for sale to farmers,
including, rehabilitation of minor flood embankments in the delta area,
equipment repair and feasibility studies. Although implementation of the
project took over two years longer than originally expected and total cost
increased by about 35% the project was successfully completed in 1980. By
1982 the net incremental production under the project reached 80,000 tons of
paddy, 37,000 tons of jute and 23,000 tons of miscellaneous crops. The
project is realizing an economic rate of return of about 27%.  This initial
investment was followed by two ongoing Paddylands Projects (Cr. 642-BA, US$30
million and Cr. 835-BA, US$34.5 million) which are financing flood protection
works in the delta area together with some pump irrigation and associated
activities. Progress under both projects has been satisfactory
notwithstanding some earlier delays mainly due to shortages of fuel and
construction materials. IDA is also financing a multipurpose hydropower and
irrigation development project on the Paunglaung river in Central Burma
(Nyaunggyat Dam, now renamed Kinda Dam, Cr. 1031-BA, US$90 million). The



-9-
most recent project approved in the sector was a tank irrigation project
(US$19 million). The Government's performance in making budgetary provisions
and meeting the local costs in these projects has been generally
satisfactory. One aspect which requires some attention is the Government's
performance in monitoring and evaluating the development impact of the
projects. However, the Government has recently introduced an improved system
in consultation with IDA and with the assistance of consultants.
30.     As a result of the increasing activities the demantds on the
Irrigation Department (ID) have also increased. To meet these demands ID has
expanded rapidly with authorized staff positions increasing from 6,800 in
1973 to about 20,000 in 1982. This rapid expansion has created strains
within the organization particularly in the area of planning and design.
Thus, Bank-financed projects have consistently included a technical
assistance and training component. In the field of groundwater irrigation,
technical assistance in exploration and pilot development has been provided
to ID for the last four years under the Burma Umbrella Project.
31.     Projects under consideration for the future include another
paddylands project, an irrigation rehabilitation and maintenance project for
existing systems, another multipurpose hydropower and irrigation project on
the Paunglaung, and another groundwater irrigation project being prepared
under the ongoing UNDP financed, Bank executed Umbrella Project. IDA is
supportive of GOB's current priorities to include smaller irrigation projects
which would diversify not only investment in irrigation to areas in need of
improvement and not covered previously but also the range of crops produced.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
The Project Area
32.'    The project area includes parts of three townships in the dry zone of
central Burma, namely, Monywa, Chaung U and Budalin. These townships lie at
the foot of the Arakan Yoma and the Chin Hills. The total population of the
project area is about 120,000 with 65% living in Monywa, 27% in Budalin and
8% in Chaung U.  About 25% of the rural families in the project area own no
land and the majority of these earn their living as hired farm laborers. The
average farm size is about 10 ac, but about 25% of the farmers have less than
4 ac. The main crops in the project area are paddy, sesame, groundnuts,
wheat, chickpea and fodder sorghum. Due to a combination of factors
including uncertain water supply, poor land preparation, and the relatively
low utilization of other inputs such as fertilizers and pesticides, the
overall present crop yields in the area are low.
Project History
33.     The Bank Agricultural Sector Mission in 1977 reported that suitable
conditions for groundwater development exist in the central dry zone of



-10-
Burma. In view of Burma's lack of experience in large scale irrigation from
groundwater, the Government, UNDP and the Bank decided in 1978 to include a
Groundwater Exploration and Pilot Development Sub-project ("the Pilot Phase")
under the Burma Umbrella Project, for which the Bank is the Executing Agency.
The ID has carried out the Pilot Phase with assistance by a team of
consultants (Groundwater Development Consultants, UK) contracted by the Bank.
Four survey areas were selected -- three in the dry zone in Sagaing and
Mandalay Divisions, and one in the intermediate zone in Pegu Division. The
total area covered was about 1.1 million ac.
34.     Work started in November 1978 and is scheduled to be completed in
December 1983. To date a total of 86 exploratory boreholes have been drilled
and 50 of these converted to pilot production wells, of which 25 are located
in the proposed project area.  Irrigation distribution channels have been
constructed at some of the more successful pilot wells. Well discharges range
from 0.5 to 2.0 cusecs and commanded area from 25 to 150 ac per well. These
investigations delineated sufficient groundwater potential for large-scale
irrigation development in Sagaing Division, centered on the town of Monywa,
where the proposed project would be located. The consultants submitted the
draft feasibility study report for the project in August 1982. The Bank
appraisal mission visited Burma during September/October 1982. The Staff
Appraisal Report entitled "Burma: Groundwater Irrigation Project I" (No.
4323-BA) is being distributed separately. A timetable of important events
relating to the project and special conditions of the proposed credit are
given in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from April 18
to April 22 1983. The Burmese delegation was led by H.E. U Kyaw Htain,
Deputy Minister, Ministry of Agriculture and Forests.
Principal Project Features
35.     The project would increase crop production and farm incomes in the
project area by expanding the irrigated area from about 2,000 ac in 1983 to
20,000 ac in 1989 through development of groundwater resources. The
capability of ID in groundwater exploration and development and of the
Agricultural Corporation (AC) in adaptive research and extension would be
strengthened. The project would include the following major components:
(a) construction of about 106 new deep tubewells and provision
of pumping equipment;
(b) construction of irrigation and drainage systems for these
106 new tubewells;
(c) construction of a power distribution system from the
existing 33 kV line to the 106 new tubewells and to 25
existing tubewells;
(d) provision of agricultural support including extension and
applied research and provision of fertilizers and chemicals;



-11-
(e) technical assistance and training; and
(f) monitoring and evaluation.
Project Description
36.     Drilling and Equipping of Tubewells.  About 106 new tubewells would
be drilled and equipped over a 3-1/2 year period by two rigs purchased during
the Pilot Phase. The depth to static water level in the project area ranges
from 20 ft. to 100 ft. below ground level. It is expected that 28 of these
wells would have a discharge of one cusec and 78 wells, two cusecs.  The
wells would be spread over a gross area of about 130 sq. miles (83,200 ac).
37.     Construction of Irrigation and Drainage Systems.  At each of the 106
new tubewell sites, an irrigation and drainage system would be built. The net
irrigable command area would be 97 ac per one cusec at full development. The
command areas of the 106 new and 25 existing wells would total about 20,000
ac. A lined main canal feeding to unlined earth field channels would be
constructed by the project except on very sandy soils where the entire main
canal and field channels would be lined (estimated at 10% of the systems).
Land levelling and preliminary cultivation would be carried out as part of
the government construction program and financed by the project. The farmers
are expected to sub-divide half acre blocks into appropriately sized basins
to construct channels from the government turnout to the basins.
38.     Electric Power Supply.  Present value analyses of various alternative
power sources for pumping indicate that electricity would be least cost if
the peak energy demand (between 6-10 p.m.) is avoided. The lack of diesel
fuel severely hampered the utilization of wells during the Pilot Phase. The
project would eliminate this problem by electrifying all the tubewells
including the 25 existing tubewells constructed during the Pilot Phase.
Under the Burma Power Project (Cr. 1245-BA) the Electric Power Corporation
(EPC) has installed a 132 kV transmission line connecting, Monywa with the
Kyunchaung gas turbine power station. The line is currently energized at 33
kV and has a capacity of about 15 MVA. A new 5 MVA, 33/11 kV substation was
completed at Monywa and serves the area.  Given the poor state of the
existing 11 kV lines connecting Monywa with Budalin and Chaung U, and
considering many institutional problems associated with integrated systems, a
separate distribution system would be built for the tubewells with 4 packaged
33/11 kV substations, each having an 11 kV ring equipped with 11/0.4 kV
transformation and low tension connections. During the earlier stage of
project preparation, the feasibility of including the electrification of 42
villages along with tubewell electrification was considered. However, on the
basis of potential consumer survey, it became apparent that only 20 to 30% of
K       the villagers could afford the connection fees.  Furthermore, EPC considered
electrification of the project area villages premature in light of its own
nationwide electrification program. The village electrification component
was therefore excluded from the project. Nevertheless the 11 kV power
distribution system will be built in such a way that it will allow future
connection for village electrification.



-12-
39.     Provision of Agricultural Support.  To ensure that farmers on new
and existing irrigation systems are able to reap full potential ber' fits from
water made available, the project would strengthen Agriculture Corporation's
(AC) adaptive research capabilities and agricultural extension services, and
improve the distribution of input supplies. Main investments in these
categories include additional staff, construction of six new production
camps, a demonstration farm, demonstration plots, equipment, and importation
of fertilizers and chemicals to cover initial incremental needs.
40.     Technical Assistance and Training.  During the Pilot Phase,
consultancy services were provided to ID in all aspects of groundwater
exploration and pilot development. Certain specific assistance, however,
would still be required in implementing the project, namely, tender document
preparation and bid evaluation, drilling and well construction, and in
particular water management/irrigation agronomy. For this purpose about 50
man-months of consultancy service would be provided by the project at an
estimated average cost of US$12,000 equivalent per man-month. Terms of
reference have been agreed by IDA. During negotiations assurances were
obtained from GOB that the consultants would be employed by ID on terms and
conditions agreeable to IDA (Section 3.03 of draft DCA). The project would
also provide overseas training for ID staff in hydrogeology, groundwater
engineering and irrigation agronomy (water management), and AC's Subject
Matter Specialists in wheat, cotton and beans. These fields have been
carefully chosen as those still needing strengthening. Study tours to
neighboring countries are also included in the project.
41.     Monitoring and Evaluation.  ID Project Director's Office would
monitor project implementation and submit quarterly progress reports to the
Project Steering Committee (PSC), which in turn would forward these reports
to IDA. Evaluation of project impact would be carried out under the
supervision of the Project Impact Evaluation Committee by a team appointed by
the committee. This team would consist of staff from the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forests, Ministry of Planning and Finance, and the Institute
of Economics. Terms of reference and format for reporting have been agreed
by IDA.
Organization and Management
42.     The Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF) would have overall
responsibility for project implementation.  The Irrigation Department (ID),
Agricultural Corporation (AC) and the Electric Power Corporation (EPC) would
be responsible for executing various components of the project. The Planning
and Statistics Department of MAF, Settlement and Land Record Department, as
well as the Ministry of Planning and Finance would be involved through the
Project Steering Committee (PSC) in project coordination and management.
Other agencies which would be indirectly involved with the project include
the Agriculture and Farm Produce Trade Corporation, Myanma Agricultural Bank,
Textile Industries Corporation and Food Industries Corporation.



-13-
43.     Three divisions within the Irrigation Department (Drilling, Civil
Engineering and Mechanical Engineering) would be responsible for the
following respective services: (a) drilling, hydrogeological investigations,
well construction and testing; (b) design and construction of irrigation and
drainage systems and on-farm development; and (c) mechanical engineering and
workshops. The appointment of a Project Director (Superintending Engineer)
and Executive Engineers for each of the three Divisions would be conditions
for credit effectiveness (Sections 3.02(b) and 6.01 of draft DCA).
44.     The Agriculture Corporation (AC) would be responsible for (a)
procurement and distribution of fertilizers and agricultural chemicals, (b)
construction of six production camps, (c) adaptive research in the project
area, and (d) strengthening of agricultural extension.
I~~~~~~~~~~
45.     The Electric Power Corporation (EPC).  EPC would construct the power
distribution system as a subcontractor to ID, which would procure necessary
materials according to EPC specifications. EPC would also operate and
maintain a part of the power distribution system and provide services for
major repair (para 54).
46.     Project Management and Coordination.  To coordinate work of the
various implementing agencies, a Project Steering Committee (PSC) would be
formed in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF). PSC would include
the Deputy Minister of MAF as Chairman, Director General of Foreign Economic
Relations Department, Ministry of Planning and Finance, Director General of
Planning and Statistics Department, MAF, Director General of the Settlement
and Land Record Department, as well as heads of ID, AC and EPC. The Project
Director would serve as member-secretary of PSC. The PSC would be
responsible for: (a) administering, reviewing and approving annual work
programs and budgets; (b) reviewing quarterly progress reports; (c)
coordinating project-related policies and solving inter-ministerial problems;
and (d) conferring with IDA on all project-related policy matters (Section
3.02(a) draft of DCA).
Implementation Schedule
47.     The project is expected to be completed in five years.  Assurances
have been obtained from GOB that at least 30 of the 106 well locations and
corresponding command areas would have been identified and surveyed by June
30, 1984 to enable ID to commence drilling and construction of wells (Section
3.06 of draft DCA).  In fact, under the extension of the Pilot Phase, ID and
AC have already selected 48 well sites and completed detailed survey of 24.
Other pre-project activities would also be conducted before October 1983
including preparation of tender documents. During the first year of the
project, ID will build-up its establishment to full strength, and construct
all infrastructure (housing, office, workshops and stores) to enable it to
carry out its responsibilities.
48.     The EPC would also finalize details of the design of the power supply
system during the first year. Major construction works would start in the



-14-
second year of the project (October 1984). The project would assume
responsibility for O&M of the 25 currently diesel powered tubewells
constructed and commissioned during the Pilot Phase. The first new tubewell
systems would be commissioned before the dry season of the third year and all
systems would be operational by the beginning of the dry season of the fifth
year.
Cost Estimates
49.     The project is estimated to cost US$22.0 million, including import
duties and taxes of US$3.1 million and price contingencies of US$2.4 million.
Foreign exchange costs would be about US$10.2 million or about 46% of total
costs. Costs were based on prices prevailing in October 1982 and were
updated to current 1983 price levels.  Engineering and administration costs
are based on proposed organizational arrangements and operational expenses.
A physical contingency was estimated for each cost item and would amount to
12.7% of civil works and 2.9% of equipment. These contingencies are
relatively small since cost estimates are based on the actual experience
gained during the Pilot Phase. Price contingencies for foreign currency
costs were estimated on the basis of projected annual inflation rates of 7.5%
in 1984, 7% in 1985, and 6% in 1986, 1987 and 1988. Price contingencies for
local currency costs were estimated at a projected annual inflation of 4%
throughout the project implementation period reflecting the mix of local
goods and services to be purchased. Since about 70% of the equipment and
materials are purchased during the first one year and half of the project,
the total price contingencies would be only about 13% of base costs.
Financing
50.     The proposed IDA credit of US$14.0 million equivalent would finance
about 74% of total project costs, including the full foreign exchange cost of
US$10.2 million and about 44% (US$3.8 million equivalent) of local costs,
net of duties and taxes.
Procurement and Disbursements
51.     Materials, equipment and vehicles, estimated to cost US$9.7 million,
including physical and price contingencies but net of taxes and duties, would
be financed by IDA and would be procured through ICB in accordance with IDA
guidelines. However, individual items, costing less than US$30,000 and for
which international tendering would not be practical, would be procured after
comparing prices from not less than three independent suppliers in accordance
with GOB procurement procedures acceptable to IDA. Such purchases, however,
would be limited to an aggregate amount of US$0.8 million.  A 15% preference
margin, or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended
to local manufacturers in bid evaluation under ICB procurement. Bidding
documents for all procurements estimated to cost US$100,000 or more and all
proposed awards related thereto would be submitted to IDA for prior review.
The civil works component of the project would include (a) drilling and well
construction (US$0.8 million); (b) power supply systems construction



-15-
(US$0.4 million); and (c) irrigation systems construction (US$4.7 million).
Items (a) and (b) would be too small to attract foreign contractors. Item
(c) would involve simple structures and small canals over a scattered area
and would not be suitable for ICB. There is no private construction industry
in Burma. Consequently, all civil works would be carried out by ID which has
demonstrated its capability in implementing such works under force account
during the Pilot Phase as well as in other projects at reasonable cost.
52.     Disbursements from the IDA credit would cover:
(a) 50% of local expenditures for civil works, including construction
of water points, irrigation and drainage systems, power supply
systems, service roads, and agricultural extension and
*                 research facilities;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported materials and
equipment, vehicles and spare parts;
(c) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manu-
factured materials and equipment;
(d) 75% of other local expenditures for locally procured materials and
equipment; and
(e) 100% of expenditures for consulting services and overseas
training of staff.
Disbursements for item (a) would be made against statements of expenditure,
documentation for which would be retained by the implementing agencies for
review by IDA upon request and audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA. All other disbursements would be made against full
documentation. The ID would be responsible for preparation, review and
submission of all applications for disbursement to IDA. It is expected that
disbursements would be completed by 1989.
Budgeting, Accounts and Audit
53.     GOB has agreed to provide separate unaudited accounts for each
project component within six months after the end of the fiscal year to be
followed by certified copies of the audited accounts and auditors report
within nine months of the end of the fiscal year. The accounts are to be
maintained by respective implementing agencies and collated by PSC. The
accounts would be audited annually in accordance with sound auditing
principles as applied by the Director General, Central Accounts Office,
acting on behalf of the Council of the People's Inspectors of GOB (Sections
4.01(d) of draft DCA).



-16-
Operation and Maintenance
54.     After completion of the project, responsibility for O&M of tubewells
and irrigation facilities would be transferred to the Maintenance Division of
ID based in Ye-u township. A civil works maintenance subdivision would be
established in each of the Monywa, Budalin and Chaung-U townships. One
subdivision for mechanical maintenance would be established in Monywa, which
would look after the whole project area. EPC would operate and maintain the
33 kV substation in Monywa, 33 kV lines and the four 33/11 kV substations.
EPC would also train pump operators/linemen, who would be employed by ID to
maintain 11 kV lines, 11/0.4 transformers and low tension lines. If major
repair is required for these facilities, EPC would provide it at cost. The
AC would retain its intensive program for agricultural extension for a
-nine-year period. Afterwards, it is considered that reversion to normal
levels of staffing and extension operations could be achieved without
undermining the progress made.
55.     Within individual irrigation systems (50 to 200 ac commanded by a
single water source), water user groups would be established with farmers
having land in the command area. Assurances have been obtained from GOB that
a water user group would be established for each well constructed by the
project before commissioning the well, and that for those 25 existing wells,
water user groups would be established by March 31, 1984 (Section 3.07 of
draft DCA). Although overall guidance on cropping patterns would continue to
be given by Township Agricultural Supervisory Committees, increasing
responsibility would be taken by the water user groups in making specific
decisions on location and timing of agricultural activities, timing of
irrigation, distribution of irrigation water, and designation of pump
operators.
56.     Energy cost consideration demands that pumps should not be operated
during the peak demand hours of 6-10 p.m. Practical operational
considerations suggest that night irrigation should be minimized. Thus the
absolute maximum daily operation would be 20 hours while about 14 hours/day
would be preferred. The tubewell irrigation systems would be operated on
appropriate rotational schedule which would be devised on the basis of
cropping patterns for each command and constraints such as avoidance of peak
power demand hours. The project provides a service of a full time resident
irrigation agronomist for three years to ensure efficient water management.
Cost Recovery
57.     Assurances have been obtained from GOB that EPC would charge ID fees
sufficient to recover (a) cost of power supplied to tubewells included in               p
the project and (b) all operation and maintenance costs of the power
distribution system (Section 4.03 of draft DCA).
58.    Overall costs to GOB have been estimated in terms of present values
(using discount rate of 10%) over the 20-year project life of: (a) total
capital costs (excluding price contingencies, taxes, and duties) (K88



-17-
million), (b) recurrent O&M (including energy costs) and equipment
replacement expenses (K21 million), and (c) subsidies on incremental
fertilizer inputs based on differences between international prices and
GOB-controlled prices (K49 million). The present value of the total costs to
GOB would thus amount to K158 million, GOB would recover some of its costs
from increases in income from land and irrigation water taxes (K1.2
million). 1/ These revenues combined, however, would recover only 6% of O&M
costs, or Tess than 1% of the total cost (capital plus O&M costs).  The main
sources of GOB cost recovery would come from indirect agricultural taxation
(procurement of controlled crops - including cotton, wheat, and mung beans -
at prices below the crop export or import values) (K90 million). These
amounts have been estimated as the differenee between the project border
prices and GOB's procurement prices appropriately adjusted for processing,
i4         storage and transport costs.  Putting these direct and indirect taxes
together, the project would recover 58% (K91 million) of the total of
construction and 0&M costs.
59.    The indirect agricultural taxation margin has recently been shrinking,
mainly due to declining international prices of agricultural commodities.
However, the overall cost recovery index of 58% is significantly higher than
under other similar irrigation projects in Asia. 2/ Care must also be taken
to maintain adequate production incentives to farmers. It is therefore
essential to maintain a balance between cost recovery and farmers incentive.
For this purpose during negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOB, as
was the case for other IDA financed irrigation projects in Burma, 3/ that GOB
would periodically review, and if necessary, revise its (cotton, wheat and
beans) pricing system so as to ensure adequate financial incentive to farmers
to make investments necessary to increase production; and that in the event
that the cost recovery index is eroded significantly through modifications to
the existing compulsory procurement system, GOB, in consultation with IDA,
1/ Depending on land quality and the availability of irrigation/drainage
infrastructure, farmers in project areas currently pay land taxes ranging
from K 0.50/ac to K 12.0/ac per year. Anticipating standard tax
reassessment by the Settlement and Land Record Department, increases in
land taxes in project areas are conservatively estimated to average about
K 2/ac p.a. beginning in Year 5. In addition to land taxes, a new Water
and Irrigation Tax Law was enacted by the Pyithu Hluttaw (Peoples
Assembly) in March 1982. Under this law, any cultivated land supplied
with water by irrigation works built and maintained by the State will be
*              subject to an annual tax of K 10 per ac.
2/ For instance, a recent UN study (ESCAP 1981) shows that on five typical
irrigation projects, cost recovery indices varied from 14 to 41%.
3/ Lower Burma Paddyland Development Project I (Cr 642-BA)
Lower Burma Paddyland Development Project II (Cr 835-BA)
Nyaunggyat (Kinda) Dam Project (Cr 1031-BA)



-18-
will make adequate arrangements for the direct or indirect recovery of the
capital and O&M costs of the project (Sections 4.04 and 4.05 of draft DCA).
Project Benefits and Justification
60.     The project would increase agricultural production and farm incomes
through the construction of tubewell irrigation and the provision of
complementary infrastructural and extension services (including applied
research, fertilizers, chemicals and technical assistance) in an area where
no other economical irrigation water source is readily available and
extension services are inadequate. About 6,000 farm families would benefit
directly from the full combination of the water supplied as a result of the
tubewell investments and the complementary infrastructural and extension
services.  The benefitting farms would have an average of about three acres
of irrigated land and seven acres of rainfed land. For the average farm
household whose farm would be partly irrigated by new deep tubewells, annual
net farm income is expected to increase by about 160%. A further 715 farm
households, which already cultivate land irrigated by the 25 tubewells
constructed during the Pilot Phase, would also benefit from the project. The
reliability of irrigation water supply would be improved as their tubewells
are converted from diesel to electric motors. Their annual net family income
is expected to increase by about 70%. At full development (year 14), the
total net incremental production of the project would reach 5,400 tons of
seed-cotton, 10,400 tons of wheat and 6,500 tons of mung beans p.a. The
project would also increase annual farm labor requirements from about 1.2
million man-days without the project to about 1.5 million man-days with the
project. Since 26% of rural households in the project area have no land and
a further 25% have holdings less than five ac (and will therefore have aL
labor surplus at peak periods), there is a large pool of labor available for
such incremental employment.
61.     Based on projected world market prices, incremental tradeable goods
produced with the project at full development would represent a gross foreign
exchange value of about US$10.3 million equivalent p.a. Allowing for
increased foreign exchange expenditures (US$1.6 million) on fertilizers and
chemicals, as well as fuel, spares and replacements, the net annual foreign
exchange impact due to the project would amount to US$8.7 million equivalent.
Overall the Burmese economy would realize an economic rate of return (ERR) of
about 22% from total project investments, inclusive of physical
contingencies.
Project Risks and Sensitivity Tests
62.    Project Risks.  There are no serious risks associated with the project
since it is based on proven approaches developed during the four year Pilot
Phase. Some aspects of the project, however, deserve attention:
(a) Electric Power Supply. Use of electricity for tubewells with
the proposed magnitude is new to Burma. For this reason, provi-
sion has been made for consultancy services under a one-year



-19-
extension of the Pilot Phase to carry out surveys for detailed
design and tender document preparation for the electrification.
In addition, the project provides consultancy services to assist
EPC and ID in initially installing and commissioning electric
motors. During the operational stage, power fluctuations may
occur. To minimize such fluctuations and also to prevent damages
which may be caused by it, the project would provide a separate
electricity distribution system for tubewells and provide each
well with a capacitor.
(b) Cropped Area, Yields and Production. Lower production during
the Pilot Phase resulted mainly from an unreliable power source
(diesel), lack of efficient water management due to inexperience
C               of farmers and GOB officials as well as under-designed irrigation
systems. To mitigate these problems, the project would: (i) use
electricity instead of diesel as a power source; (ii) include a
three-year service of a resident water management specialist
(irrigation agronomist); and (iii) construct irrigation systems
on the basis of 97 ac/cusec command area. With these measures
and with an intensive agricultural extension and applied research
programs included in the project, project risks would be minimized,
and project farmers should realize expected production levels at
full development.
63.     Sensitivity Tests.  Sensitivity analyses indicate that the economic
viability is more sensitive to agricultural benefits than construction costs.
On the assumption that the opportunity cost of capital is 10% p.a., overall
costs would have to rise by 48%, or benefits fall by 33%, before the project
became economically non-viable. These results clearly indicate that the
project is economically sound.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Socialist Republic
of the Union of Burma and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
65.     A special condition of effectiveness for the proposed Credit is the
appointment of the Project Director (Superintending Engineer) and three
Executive Engineers (Section 6.01 of draft Credit Agreement); this is shown
in Section III of Annex III.
66.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



-20-
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 18, 1983
Washington, D.C.
J



-21-                                          ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
BURMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BURMA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                MOST RECENT ESTIMATE-
TOTAL             676.6                                   MOST RECENT         LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      103.9                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC               ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     50.0         70.0      170.0              261.4                     890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        55.3          62.5      67.4               448.7                     701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 21780.0        27346.0   34818.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 19.3            22.8      27.2                17.3                      32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          54.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           109.3
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         32.2         40.4       50.2               158.1                     255.9
(                   ,                 PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    203.7          253.4      327:1               355.9                    1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           38.2         40.3       41.2                36.8                      39.9
15-64 YRS.                           59.2         56.3       55.1                59.7                      56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.6          3.3       3.7                 3.5                       3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.9         2.3         2.4                2.0                       2.3
URBAN                                 3.7         4.0        4.2                 3.3                       3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        42.9         40.1      37.4                29.3                      31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        21.0         16.8       13.5               11.0                       9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.8          2.8        2.6                2.0                       2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..              ..        ..                19.3                      36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD fRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           100.0        101.0      102.0               108.1                     115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     95.7        102.4      103.0/c              97.3                     106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            51.6          56.2      57.1/i              56.9                      54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         10.9         12.0       11.4/c              20.0                      13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        24.7         18.3       12.8               10.9                       6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.8            48.7      53.7                57.8                      59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             158.0        127.9     100.7                89.1                      63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..        18.0       17.0/d              32.9                      32.0
URBAN                                  ,,        35.0       30.0/d              70.7                      51.9
RURAL                                  ..        13.0       13.0/i              22.2                      20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..        35.0       33.0/e              18.1                      37.7
URBAN                                  ..        45.0       38.0/i              72.7                      65.7
RURAL                                            32.0       32.0/i               4.7                      24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           15557.0       8898.8    5260.8/c             3297.8                    8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       8545.0/f    7471.6    4402.3/c              4929.3                    4829.4
POPULATIOR PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1520.8       1186.7    1137.6/c             1100.4                    1047.5
URBAN                              332.0/f      351.9      388.4/i             301.3                     651.6
RURAL                                    -   15413.3    7424.8/c              5815.7                    2597.6
f                                ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         34.0         ..                  ..                      27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.6           ..
URBAN                                  ..          ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..



-22-                                             ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
BURMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BURMA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  56.0         87.0      84.0/c             97.4                      96.2
MALE                  61.0         92.0      87.0/7i            101.0                     99.8
FEMALE                52.0         83.0      81.0/o              87.8                     92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  10.0         21.0      20.0/c             53.0                      37.6
MALE                  13.0         26.0      22.0/7              63.8                     41.1
FEMALE                 7.0         17.0      18.0/7              41.3                     34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X  OF SECONDARY)    0.5            0.8        0.1/c              1.7                     20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             42.0         46.6      54.4/c             37.7                      35.5
SECONDARY                             ..        32.1       37.1/;7            20.2                      25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         59.7/f         ..      69.7                52.1                     73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.8          1.1       1.2/c              1.5                       9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           5.3         14.6      20.6               35.4                     116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..        ..                3.2                      37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   11.3         14.8       9.7                16.4                     53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  6.0/i          7.8/h       ..                3.6                      2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10404.2       11725.1   13884.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    40.1        36.9       35.6               29.5                      33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 ..         69.9      67.1                70.0                     52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    ..          8.0       9.8               15.0                      17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 47.8         42.9      39.9                40.0                     38.5
MALE                                  58.0         54.7      51.5                51.8                     50.5
FEMALE                                37.8         31.3      28.3                23.8                     26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9          1.0        1.1                1.0                      1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.6/i
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.771         40.0/h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.57i          8.07oT
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS   16.5/i         21.0/7h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      94.0/c             133.8                    194.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..      68.0/c            111.1                     155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      50.0/c               ..                     178.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      36.0/i                ..                    164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       40.0               43.8                      24.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..      40.0               51.7                      41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
Ic 1977; /d 1976; /I 1975; /f 1962; /g 1964; /h 1972; /i 1958, Rangoon.
May, 1982



-23-                                                                              ANNEX I
OP BOOf M. LMCA&S                                                                        Page  3
tort-   &Lrhoa0 ch. du.a -o  to"' f.04 040000  p          ollY JoAssat rh    50 -00     Itt-lar0   .04 Iolualo. i- .Oo-Id 11.0 o   000.4d tOo.  o 1.., a. 0. Lotr--
.0 la)ly  bao b.rl   b...a   At Oh. 15.9 08 aruwt.Ot.   dsfl,itfOO   044 -aoaPco oad by 1 for.,bea  Co-Cot. L. roItooitg  rho date.  Th. dora -a,.0~
tholto. wa.io  to 4400Lbo rII"- of wpli 04. 1*410.~  oroad. oa  rhOd               Mito,     0.0.Ct* asIa, dif fa.tse,I   hat...oa.,.
lb. roooo        ..   a.- (I) tho o         -oary RIoop of Lho o           -jo  .t"  -a  (2) .  -dC.a  .y  rwOt  .ot sboh 199.0.   00  000.  tut rho rooo   Vr.*
of 'hp o,oO)or  o-arty (.00.9  for   "3110 100004~ 0Li LCpooooO" Sro.  V%be  "Mfl. 1o  00. .. otO   Oo 0fl .4  01410 Uoo' Is rh... bota-  of AcToep
osl-oloo   fftsLuoo).  0. rho rofoowou gr-op d.c. rhoaro.  .ro  0oylatI.. -ilgkto  a.rthed.L   -.s. too.o   fotL.raror .04 oh..  -L, 
soJoolty of lbo  -onal.. 1L. .ot  hasW ta.- f. orbht idtlres.  floe. t000 -oosro  of   - t-OIo   -M   Iho tOdi..toOO 4.p0045 00 rho ailabtlity of data
M.  L.-ot ato.m.   Ioora   mat ho  -aoLoot Ls  -otrag          Strao  of 0.0 LdtI.tar   to ooobor.  Ta...  -ur.. am  sly  -otolLa coooa  tho  -1-t If
T..aI - Totl _oof-     - a .VCIdtl10  1.04 cr0  -M  10.04o  -.-.; 1979 dat.                      cb.   .   nol  11.   ytor  opol a no   opa)hd
W oifro of tirlortcOal  ooo ooad ro.poorLIy or P.,Wooo.f 1                        ... llo01e id pabILo ado PrtrO   Sdobt&1 004 epWtLood hopitooL oldto
_oooro. .,ro   _04  ittoO_ gr40    o  to It. f al_o; 1979 da Z0.                   It.Llaoo  rooZtor.  loapttaL. sp  orltbi           p.oi-tty  clottf0
by or l:.uo 00phyo-Ldbl . 1obhL.Meoo p-.0)410  pOLOoDoIy otot
180  f1  AflA  10$)    IS  p-.. cPit. trr.. o  ooon  000. "LoIAa. cal-                       41.1 oar e.   oar L-Iotd".  bar1 al hoolta. haut.Lolo. h.altO
~~~~~~.i    -.hod a. 00,ld hook  Ole. (197-8-0 hoot.); tihO.                                004  dLol             IIror  totP -t9o.iY s t.ft.  hy A phy.iLos  (hot bY A
1970 .od 19t0 data.                                                                              041t1 As  ltat  00005  BOdl.. 010.)  btbro  oft fo -lp.o1000 AL
datos  04 pridt  o 11.1004 rasp of "stl-a  faollicl...  For ototis-
OfIjO  CISSIZ__T112_P1r  COPITA - Aob-tlcta.ni   of  -o.rrtl .-lay Ico                             tIrol yoo-.s  -rb.  h0-910010 101.40 WM0. PrL..ip.L/ooo.o.1 bo.rpoal.,
001010LY1  to killo9ro    of cool oq.olooot p.o copLtt; 190. 1970,  I0d 1979                     coroo.  tp- La:Lao   h.0.1t.. 00 L-oI."" 0.17  =4. total.
dota.MAil"Olaog  I                                                                                                  It" oan Iold0  - Total t.., of adlsalon  to ot di.hloooo.
tPtitAT12M 00  ITAL 4STATESTTCS
Ioa  Poototo,94Tt 10.00   A. of icly L; 1960, 1972, .04 !M994U00019G
urb.. P.-I"tto" (-or..trof 01091) - AdtIo of otobo to Lotol PoPotaloti;                          A       bho.o4roiO    f.iOp0   alfdas                   ooo  fLto    -oat-r
diff.obot dotit islo   of orha  a..-. 047 tfo  c-poroo1lity of "C.0                            04 10010 salt adid.  A hof a'f OP 10g.C asy 004   oat ho  -1.01404 Lo
I5c ..;rlo  190.0  1970. or4d Iwo dat.                                                 th. h-b.0.14 fot                 p-t"-ol  09*0.
fpo.slaol  Prolo-ttaaAra   ofo   0m                                                                                         0   ot-ttlo hAb  .4 00001 -  -na.B.o
P00 o00  L. ea y 000   C-- Cort p 1Lotla  pIo.Jrttoo. or. b0.04 00 1900                   0.   fpo..  i0r..L  1                           -rh0.  o . Wutot.   --mraoIn
tolpoolst.0      o   .04 0-  aod'o t.a -.tLlty 004 footL.1.ly oo.dolIa.p. IdAp-tlnly.  9-LL.oa  .-10.   .-ff.asoa o-                                       otot.a
Jr)o..  pait.o. forfrtrtlity Lrbs oflof  0.0101  o0o0-                                      aaood,4Pta   Pa-r..
L0. lit.  "--ot Ic tn bIteh 1000o10  tt.-ooty'o par -arL. toy.                            000   0ti-ttrloro   f  nloo       oa.oOO   0   oa 
loyal  laI  fd.aol. liLf  oopett.-y .otlsaoo  77.5 yos..  100 potr-                         Co,atoa   olIp010L               .tflyltltonjatt   0pt.th
t.r. E.o, fat,llity rota ALAI haro rho- a   .,l. tosoOLos 8.011 . to                       f totL. orb.. 004 0001 doOlILto   r-.p-tloly.
fol"tltt    o         Iodo   to1..0  1.01 A0d P,af.t  aly Plaool.8poo.ao
.h0oo0f  Is  ha  0010.  a   of rh.oo tf..  -inLotoOl. of asotilty                      EDUCATIO0
004 fotlltt  tras .fa  p02.t1.0 p      ti                           Al.             ad                                  d o104-4jd.   ...ll        -. .g4f8R
00010007i.Ololou- 0 atrtt par    poploto  tOr   00   roh5..fiiiflI -I2V oea4Iolo-Io.ttl.01   Mf
Lb. bIteh rot. L. oqoo  tO Pa. daarh rota,.d04Oa   0   5    toruOr-ool.    of nI a90 !t rho pltasy Lak-L AA                                           r.to.  of r0000
5010    - -000.  Thia La orblata  Idly oftar f.CUlIc  .t.  0Ti10t0                             p0)0.7 ochoo1-ama P.ptroa   _o.411  i-ld..                        Sd.40oad 6-Ll
th   apoOat  1-,1 of alt 050 toprdtotioa  cot..  09.0 ht parsrtlot                             Y---. b.t tt)oad f.otdltff-C. lo-oho of ,tiaty  0*-0t100   for
-f000  ra -ao   taI   zcl,The o.tiotl                  y popul,tlot .10  oa                  octrlaa athotrol    oalo  -flastaY .0.4 129 Poo.too
._rLat   one' rh   L0.10o  rho PP-loro   cOoe-rartart-os rIf  od         lL--t010                     - 00.0rPtl. aro 00100  r  b0.- th. offIial.  schoo  o.~.
10toYr200   a  rho rota of datlbo  of f.ettllry r.tarcraIp(oo-.S-ratoho      oa..0.04tal       ohtd0  ab . .   I.  . Co
Toro- to.r  rpLIto  LA rescod - lTh. y-a  00.   -trtlooa    oprOlrP-itda.   aol.  oooaisol.  0 0.0.b    Ollgtstbrl t                                                  oO_ f   P"",1
ot.N0111 00.toocfo.                                                                            -woill If 12 00 17 Y.a.a. of ap; cr.oodao   0.-0  0  po ly
P-.r o.        mi -Sd-,rosr poPrloolOO  9*0 Oqsr   ll-      (100 bot-oO ...                 VccorLooAl .oOll-As   ( ,.-0 of aaro  -r)-   ioatosl   tstcOts.-
-oa  ool  00 1920 90 oa  1979 dat.1000tohca.ldtll.  or.otho  p-ogr. O*hlobp ..t. L0d00
P.t  ko.6. N -ocotroAl 1oot- codotat ta tha   for oroolorl  od                                 -tlyoro  t.pa         ~tu.o  of octayLm.tlOtIa.
omy  M16. 1929 sd 1979 tot..Ptt-.tarao-  rOr.04oo.o-Ttlotas    0014.
Vtpoatt.O 00 Otootro  cot)- Chlldra  (0-14  orO Ye.orlo-o.(IS-                         ptry.4goarylo.  rtdbytmooftoatItrho
Y..o..)A,oa Latra  (0d   yarootd m   to porr Aro     of  "l-Yor 7090-                      coOr-p-diol 10,01..
Lartoa; 1960. 1970. oat 1900 data.                                                          4dtt4f9Y.o9j0r.(-Lttt0400(10ttOt                                         01)
Poorarlobot   o.(prot-to GM                   A-1iao  00-0h to.. of ..t.. L14-                   aoaPte..atotaL 04010 popolatlo.  p ISW  yLAor  .0  o.
Y-oor   .I potito  for10-0  19-0   0  1970-90.
Porlolo  C0.0 lto(.00.. -  rht    _ool Srort  -000  of -rbo  Popo-               COxSUKPTI00
I.ttoA Mf        M  90 -60   902..197040.Pas.ooa Car =                                                         ror thoro-r   ooolr       OaOgrcr   Ot0mo
Cro."  IIt  ot   pothua           - Jwtoo  li11. 0100hs Por 10te008o of  ild-roor                co.. aor        Aa thor .10t poroora;)rcuo    aooc.   00a 
P.P.,  ilo; 19.0 1970, 0.  1990 data.                                                          tittary .ohlclo..
Crod. D0010 Rtro (rat Lh-nmot  - A-La doorha p00 thoc....    o f 004-y-o                      tatto tacolver  (r   thouad  oo.atr  -All 1yp00 of r-ro=rafor 0d.4
LOoGOtr;100  1970, A0   900 dao.-                                                       hroaet   tonrL I011  P., Ohor-aa  of  .popol..IA; oroo 
It..   00.tocloeiot  - Itel oS o    of d-ao.htrt  00.  01  ho  0                         tcna  roralto-   Lr OOooo   004 La yoato W-  regL.IOtLoto.f rLdI
hortata  rortcloporta  If M.0 aoOrero    b...or ao-pc                         o.r-             La,   =. a   f fot; 4*00 IfZ0  P0.0  Y-a asy not ha o Obl..1-0
IL117 rMb.; osolyo  1070  0t0CO500 od4ot Lo  990.                    Id0.co  1900             sotcct      bsaoILahddIosLg
Foully PI1.0.10    Aoooto. u    .5t   1(12   0.0,)- A_.Io   oro   oetr                          IOrlt   ot0.00    ouslo  - TO rotoloor  for br-trat t
2.110  loOg     ot  loPrAC   sffOit'o.       or,.    fmrt                                        It o.0tPoo.04 toY-           h.  -Sr *0   oLa..ti-a of TV sr   L. 1offort.
01   EroLod - ...4 1.0 o.8. o         Yir..                                                    001010 o _el, praol  otrot o,mabr".do 004   eop.005
-44                                                  C;~~~~~~~~~polOt  .rt491001   0  ood.  504.I01 0.00   It toP L00rd-
.LidoOlo. o  all Loa -c.41t0.  trdrl.ato.  0404f.4ot00.0.i  nol  dorlol rho.  IIIort. doloi.   lo.s 0    .. A .'Lod010004
F rCa tro  E HM 0001044. I oirosro proootLa  oft000 000007 to000.4...14A0 P000
o001001 onrp  p004.00 plo. noibto; 1991-. lId- oat 198 ,,L',                    1010 CL l. r P0,0.     - lhc41  - loo.,,.lI          l    tob Ch. totltof
asa        -qoroar  o bot fort napli.  avIabe1 c-ostoy          ..f pt..                 co-dgppo.loo   l   os    .f11).  0trOOrto                                  r
rt. dAy.  cr011d00  o09pltao Co,a          of .-b protoortL.b laeO   la.                      tfraao ;16.  90.410 aa
P,0 o.oonodb0776  0.004 ht.; 0y0194L-6.a 197to fod I=04  0.11C0100   .040   o   oe   oo   ot;190   90a419   *
Pot oole .01fof ob,c00(00.0d'-P0000000o   .  tapdr.                                      PnII-i.acott  l eof) -1 totAl.. Dt              oats   ft4A -j  -.toiIs 0o
qalr-o.. f or  oU  oo -oOca   .0-I.".  b  OO   pr          =     M-dorabo                     P-00I4t000  fA rosl   1. L04  foaslo pooltAb1    aa  .aCloy
-Clr.o      of -10 ian  o bytoA .1pot    p.  dy  M   9  r tof bori            04l                     90 t004 1904           - dt..Th.. I 0  hasa  00.;195 1t00 yrtdt19Ot0  tatoa
p.l.  p000h.  of h   hc   0  oo  ohatol""0        P_.,l ptt. bod h-ab. 0-00-                     fl.0*5*o    000c   fOh                    S.tL t  00410-  tin  0044
orta or. 100.0  in  10.00 of 75gym  of total pototo 00423 0t  f  fOr f0000  ar  f.L"- Iaoa  snortt...Ab.ff..
0010-  dorrOto  a-a. ofoo    o  rh d .11rt. pOopot  .y Po  In rho TIr                       to          .0' 1   - al   fpos.10.0.   504  SatO
000014 lod Sofo; 1991465. 1970  oat 1977  dacs.                                               to60r  197  1.d.  0000
P_  010000..000tnc1.  0  0I1.0 -0100  00t91 of  to" ..401     L                                                                                              feip,
trio  dat   rof d 60  p0- loftI-   P.b 009110.1 1060,  1970       oft Ost*00                  ofD 00 70.0.14..        4..Tb           .  b.    -14'L                       .
Ptfo  PIoOC-t-. 0f 01000  1,00) 9-  Atoroo  o.0 Aofd Peor  of. 11..   Th.-  C lo             TOf 1toL.oln  o.t0--t-t-or         f t07     yoo.e~to aooo   of9 00000  loa.W.A
ALL   _    - lbchot005;V                   t  .. 1960, 197  004219S0doto.                     f0  00t.014 0t ltorpOrs  OttO- coc.r.10000
yeot 4rttt   f.0  (at100004   - OOdoo d-P.." by PrAD. codo Tho yoo                       farlta  00.cC R-trI  1000. of,0  (059 l   ca..to -5 rod 65 -4001
of ogtp.0 coooaao  Ilvohlrrbo  1900  177  004. 190J0."elt   .0t  100   .0   Oto   004  00   .0   00      li
"I0.0  to  "E0 Pot  P"0,0 of ootl.tt 1-  -total  Lran  andpl roft f-  00...ttItoat   tqnodo   Iaoooll00ta   octuta                                                          0
(toofpopo(011  .r4,  0  rrt P1091 roaao1ahle  19c..  tod17 da.                                afotot
star oapp4y !olod. PrAt                ores trAb-0   o-r.p.t.   thot  o000100a               00).04ttalL.                                    -d 00. 001li  Wo aIa - 0000 - 4 by orrLh -
rI. ah  ,00   to.  .oorocot    hi000'0, oprag. f.00010 -.      0.110t oLorl4o  p007bot   ott  ono,-thtr  of afro.I pe  0pt
Lr00.t0000. ofi 0001   lOpcIfa          19ptat0o  10 oro7   .   000d OZ                       oflr  .000 h- ldr.o.   h   cor.   os   oa   0dc 04tw   0   o
tHEAL      o  OoAot1000   a  00   0020   so.TH                         00.   .yr               ocal oTAGT GOdUPrStto    0.,ctof1101  r0000.
OorOa  0 0001. 10000  (00000 o  cecA--I   l   totIf   orb-... 004 rot.)  -            t-dA.-P                 U!-                 2Z1-I11               1   "r 
000  otlotico004 -tsp oft t00  0~10.000Orotiet  of            a 000y000.du    p..rq.,-.  A
la, tooootlrttono.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.t.Ib.
Po .alo plorot001.7000-PP              . 11040 II    rot...tdb. .f .....00                                                                   040d7 1902               I,.
asI  a0  ttal  sodoto  otoO.0000000  obooa  pArtoo  noites. 004                                                                            f   -.p.   .
0000.h10h5 aanltI.                                                                           R           Moo.



ANNEX I
-24-                                      Page 4
COUNTRY DATA - BURMA*
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN FY1981                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, cofstWOt ptices)
$ Million    %                      1971-76        1976-81        1971-81
GNP at Market Prices             5,571    100.0                      2.1             6.3           4.2
Gross Capital Formation          1,320     23.7                     -1.0            17.4           7.8
Gross National Saving              995     17.9
Foreign Saving a/                  325      5.8
Exports of Goods, NFS b/           472      8.5                     -7.2            15.2           3.4
Imports of Goods, NFS b/           774     13.9                   -10.5             21.3           4.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE, AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN FY1981
Value Added                 Labor Force           V; A; Per Worket
$ Million    %               Million    %                 US$
Agriculture c/                    2,595    46.3              9.0       66.7              288
Industry d/                         148    13.3              1.3        9.6              575
Services/Trade                    2;263    40.4              3.2 !/   23.7 !/            707
TOTAL                        5,606   100.0             13.5      100.0              415
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Public Sector                   Union Government
Kyats Million    % of GDP         Kyats Million      % of GDP
FY81          FY81                FY81            FY81
Current Receipts                        6,978 f/        18.8 f/           5,526            14.8
Current Expenditures                    5,066           13.7              4,945            13.3
Current Surplus                         1,912            5.2                581             1.6
Capital Expenditures                    6,534 g/        17.6 g/           1,393             3.7
External Assistance (gross)             2,732            7.4
MONEY; CREDIT; AND PRICES                          1975       1976      1977       1978       1979      1980       1981
(Kyats million outstanding at                     Mar.       Mar.       Mar.      Mar.       Mar.       Mar.      Mar.
end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                             5,342     6,052      6,377      6,631     8,017      9,619      11,213
Bank Credit to Public Sector                      6,222     6,445      6,213      6,550      7,194     8,990      10,885
Bank Credit to Private Sector                       639        956     1,489      1,706     1,728      1,653       1,651
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                  27.6      25.8       23.6       22.4      25.4       28.2        30.2
Consumer Price Index at Rangoon
(1972 = 100)                                   206.4      252.6      249.7     234.6      247.9      249.4      248.3
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index at Rangoon                  25.9      22.4       -1.1      -6.0        5.6        0.6        -0.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector                     26.8       3.6       -3.6        5.4       9.8       25.0        21.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector                    -6.7      49.6       55.8       14.6       1.3       -4.3        -0.1
---- - -- - ------- --_---------           -   - - _ =  _
*All data for FY81 are revised estimates of the Government of Burma.
a/  Defined as external current account balance excluding grants.
b/  Calculated on accrual, not payments, basis.
c/  Includes livestock, fishery, and forestry.
d/  Includes mining, power, and construction.
e/  Includes workers not elsewhere specified.
fl  Includes current surplus/deficit of public corporations.
g/  Includes capital expenditures of public corporations.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (FY81)
FY79     FY80      FY81                                                  $ Million
(US$ Million)   --
Exports (GNFS)                          260.2    442.3    520.4                  Rice and Rice Products                 205          43
Imports (GNFS)                          602.6    702.4    835.2                  Teak                                  109          23
Resource Balance                       -342.4   -260.1   -314.8                  Base Metals and Ores                    29           6
Animal Feedstuff                        8            2
Net Factor Income                       -13.6    -22.1    -26.2                  All Other Commodities                  127          26
Net Current Transfer                      12.5     15.4      16.5
TOTAL                           478         100
Current Account Balance                -343.5   -266.8   -324.5
Official Grant Aid                       59.6      65.5      96.2              EXTERNAL DEBT; March 31; 1981
Net M&LT Loans                          362.9    362.1    289.0                                                            US$ Million
Disbursements                         390.6    421.7    353.3
Repayments                             27.7      59.6      64.3                Outstanding and Disbursed                   1,516.7
Shor't-term Capital                      -6.7      -5.9      -0.9
Outstanding, including
Net Errors and Omissions                -14.2    -43.2    -13.5                    Undisbursed                               2,740.2
Overall Balance                          58.1    111.7       46.2
Gross Reserves (end-March)              162.1    258.9    274.8
Net Reserves (end-March)                  62.7    177.3    232.5               DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR FY1981                     Z
Ratio of debt service to exports of             20.1
goods and services
RATE OF EXCHANGE
1979 (End of Calendar Year)
SDR 1.00 - K 8.51                                                              IBRD1IDA LENDING; Match 31; 1983 (US$ Million)
US$1.00 - K 6.52
IBRD       IDA
1980 (End of Calendar Year)
SDR 1.00 -= K 8.51                                                               Outstanding and Disbursed                         240.86
US$1.00 = K 6.76
Undisbursed                                       294; 72
1981 (End of Calendar Year)
SDR 1.00 = K 8.51                                                                Outstanding, including
US$1.00  = K 7.40                                                                   Undisbursed                             --      535.58
As of July 31; 1982
SDR 1.00   K 8.51
US$ 1.00   K 7.87
not available
not applicable
South Asia Programs Department
Division C
April 1983
,r



-26-                  ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK/IDA OPERATIONS IN BURMA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of Match 31; 1983)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                      Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.  Year  Borrower            Purpose                 Batik     IDA    Uftdi8bursed
Three loans and six credits fully disbursed                    33.1   103.6           --
597      1975    Burma   Livestock                            -      7.5         1.52
642      1976    Burma   Paddyland Development                -    30.0          7.05
686      1977    Burma   Tin and Tungsten                     -    16.0          0.78
745      1977    Burma   Seed Development                     -      5.5         1.22
835      1978    Burma   Paddyland Development II             -    34.5         20.67
879       1978    Burma   Rubber Rehabilitation               -      4.5         2.31
949      1979    Burma   Forestry II                          -    35.0         19.05
958       1979    Burma   Telecommunications II               -    35.0         25.62
1031       1980    Burma   Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam               -    90.0        56.61
1092 b/   1981    Burma   Grain Storage a/                      -    23.0        18.86
1114 h~/  1981    Burma   Wood Industries I a/                  -    32.0        22.03
1245 b/   1982    Burma   Power I a/                            -    80.0        80.00
1253 b/   1982    Burma   Construction Industry I a/           -    20.0         20.00
1315 b/   1983    Burma   Tank Irrigation a/                    -    19.0        19.00
Total                                            33.1   535.6
of which has been repaid                       33.1        -
Total now outstanding                                -   535.6
Amount sold                         2.7
of which has been repaid          2.7             -
Total now held by Bank & IDA a/                      -   535.6
Total Undisbursed                                                    294.72
a/  Prior to exchange adjustments.
b/  IDA Sixth Replenishment Credits, principal amounts shown in US dollars
equivalent at date of negotiations, as shown in the President's Reports
and disbursed amounts shown in US dollars equivalent at the rate of
exchange for the SDR on March 31, 1983.



-27-                    ANNEX II
Page 2
D.  STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (As of March 31, 1983) 1/
Cr. No. 597    Livestock Projett; US$7.5 Million Credit of Detember 30, 1975;
Effective Date:  March 26, 1976; Closing Date:  June 30,  98
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. The milk plant is
expected to be completed by July 1983 and commissioning by September 1983.
(   Organization of the milk collecting centers is underway.  The Veterinary and Animal
Husbandry Department (VAHD) has equalled or exceeded the targets set for number of
villages to be covered, number of cows inseminated, semen produced, vaccine
produced, establishment of water points, and staff and farmer training. Nine
thousand acres of pasture remain to be established. The seeds have been procured
and establishment will be completed in May/June 1983 when rains begin. The
Institute of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science (IAHVC) has completed about
50% of the move to Yezin. The program of training and fellowships abroad has been
a success.
Cr; No. 642    Paddylatd D(velopmeftt Project; US$30.0 Million Credit of
June 21, 1976; Effective Date:  August 20, 1976; Closing
Datei Jitine 30, 1983
The project is about two years behind schedule due to delay in the procure-
ment of construction equipment at the outset of implementation. After the delivery
of equipment, construction progress had been satisfactory until 1982 when further
delays were encountered due largely to shortages of fuel and cement. A revised
implementation schedule envisages completion of the project, within the original
cost estimates, by end 1984/85. Preliminary survey suggests that substantial
agricultural benefits are being obtained in four completed polders.
Cr. No. 686    Tin and Tungsten Expansion Project; US$16.0 Million Credit of
Ma1itch 2-5; 1-97-7; Effective Date, Jfifie 13;, 1977; Cloitifg
Date:  March 31,     8
The dredge has completed delivery tests and is operative. MC2 is procuring
(  spare parts to avoid future delays of dredge operations.  In addition, MC2 has also
increased its efforts in training by sending selected staff to Malaysia. GOB has
advised the Bank that they would cancel $200,000 allocated for a sector study. The
(
I/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense and with the understanding that they do not pur-
port to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project
execution.



-28-                      ANNEX II
Page 3
project activity is nearly completed. The closing date has been put forward to
March 31, 1984 to complete small outstanding disbursements.
Cr. No. 745    Seed Development Project; US$5.5 Million Credit of November 14,
1977; Effective Date: February 14; 1978; Clo8itig Date:
June 307, 1984
Procurement, civil works, applied research, seed production, and seed
quality control continue to make satisfactory progress. Staff is now at full
strength. Overseas training is proceeding satisfactorily. The project has been x
extended by 18 months, to accommodate previous delays.
Cr. No. 835    Paddyland Development II Projett; US$34.5 Million Credit of
July 28, 1978; Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date! April 30, 1986
The project is proceeding broadly according to schedule. However, shortage
of fuel has caused slight delays in construction. Land reclamation is proceeding
at a satisfactory rate. The allocation of reclaimed land for settlement is await-
ing completion of the necessary surveys, and is a little delayed. The agricultural
extension service and other components of the project are progressing satisfac-
torily.
Cr. No. 879    Rubber Rehabilitation Project; US$4.5 Million Credit of
March 13, 1979; Effective Date: May 25, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, except for the delay
in the construction of the crumb rubber factory. Management performance is good
and the project has now made up for earlier delays in procurement. Project plant-
ing is expected to be completed by June 1983. Civil works is 74% of target, and
procurement is nearly completed. Disbursements totalled US$2.2 million up to March
31, 1983, compared with SAR estimates of US$3.8 million, largely due to the delay
in the construction of the crumb rubber factory which accounts for about 20% of the
credit. A team of geophysicists has visited the factory site in March 1983 to
advise on the equipment necessary to obtain the 10,000 gallons of water per hour
required by the factory. The present output is 2,000 gallons per hour with a
2-inch outlet.  If the test results are satisfactory, the factory would be com-
pleted by mid 1983. The Second Rubber Rehabilitation Project, appraised during
November 1982, has been negotiated.
Cr; No. 949    Fore8try II (East Pegu Yoma) Ptoject; US$35.0 Million Credit of
September 21, 1979; Effective Date: December 20, 1979;
Cloitig Date! Septenber 30, .1985
Implementation of the project is going well. Log extraction targets are
being met with the necessary balance with sawmilling capacity. The sawmill
rehabilitation program is achieving good results with capacity increases to date
totalling about 25,000 HT. The construction of the first of two new hardwood
sawmills is now complete and trial runs began in January 1983. Construction of the
second mill has now started. At Okkyin civil works is about complete and equipment



-29-                     ANNEX II
Page 4
is being installed. The plantation program is progressing well and ahead of
schedule with a total of 24,780 acres established versus the target for the same
period of 17,750 acres.
Cr; No. 958    Secotid Telecotmmnications Projett; US$35.0 Million Credit of
December 18, 1979; Effective Date: March 3, 1980; Closing
Date:  Dceember 31, 1984
The project, after a slow start caused by delay in the creation of the
project implementation unit and consequent delays in procurement action, is now
progressing satisfactorily. Overall the project is expected to suffer a delay of a
year and a half. Financial results continue to be satisfactory.
Cr. No; 1031   KiTda (Nyatnggyat) Dam Mtiltipurpoge Projett; US$90.0 Million
Credit of November 4, 1980; Effective Date:  November 19,-1980;
Closing Date:  Jute 30; 1987
Overall progress of the dam and allied structures has been impressive and
on schedule, except the diversion tunnel which was originally delayed by about two
months. All steel lining, upstream diversion channel and saddle dike 3 are com-
pleted and diversion tunnel concreting is 85% complete. Excavation of inlet struc-
ture/spillways/plunge pool, and construction of coffer dam core-filling and rock-
fill, saddle dike 2, and Kinda weir radial gate section are in progress. The
irrigation and agricultural development works are presently about 12 months behind
schedule due to delays in selection of the engineering consultant and procurement
of some equipment. Most of the equipment has now been delivered. The selected
consultant firm for irrigation/development works has recently started the plan-
ning/design works which are progressing well.
Cr. No. 1092   Grain Storage Project; SDRs 17.9 Million (US$23.0 Million equivalent)
Credit of Febrtary 6, 1981; Effettive Date:  May 4, 1981; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
Progress on construction of godowns has been held back by shortage of
cement and problems of local procurement of sawn timber. The Government has,
however, assigned high priority to allocation of construction materials sufficient
to speed up progress, under the coordination and monitoring of the Project Coor-
dination Committee. Engineering consultants have assisted AFPTC in finalizing
designs of mechanical equipment and prefabricated steel superstructures. A major
start on the rehabilitation of godowns, jetties and railway wagons is underway.
Cr. No. 1114   Wood Industries I Project; SDRs 25.8 Million (US$32.0 Million
eqeivalefit) Credit of March 26; 1981; Effettive Date!
June 25, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Project procurement continues on schedule. Most equipment contracts for
sawmills, plywood mills, and the furniture factory have been awarded. Civil works
construction for sawmills, furniture factory, and plywood mills is underway.
Project staffing needs to be strengthened to cope with the increased level of
activity expected in the future.



-30-                        ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 1245 Power Project; SDRs 70.1 Million (US$80.0 Million equivalent)
Ctedit of Jute 28, 1982; Effective Dates  September 28, 1982;
Closing Date:  April 30, 198/
The project would help establish an integrated approach to the development
of the Electric Power Corporation's (EPC) transmission facilities and contribute to
improving the efficiency of EPC's power system.  The project start up has been
satisfactory to date. Bid evaluation and tendering for equipment is slightly
behind schedule and a delay of two months is expected in awarding contracts. A
supervision mission is scheduled to return end-April 1983.
Cr. No. 1253  Construction Ihdustry Project; SDRS 18 Million (US$20.O Million
equivalent) Credit of June 28, 1982; Effective Date:
eptember 20, 1982; Cio&ifg Datet Detber 31, 1987
The implementation of the project continues to make good progress.  Selec-
tion of a consulting firm for the technical assistance to be provided under the
project has been made and the contract signed.  With respect to equipment procure-
ment, by early February 1983, Construction Corporation had already opened bids for
abut 70% of the total list of credit equipment and by the end of February 1983 they
were expecting to have opened almost all equipment bids.  In April/May 1983 Con-
struction Corporation will be presenting evaluation reports for IDA approval.
Cr. No; 1315  Tatik Irrigation Project; SDRS 17.9 Million (US$19.0 Million
equivalent Credit of February 4,?1983; Effective Date:
Aptil 22, 1983; Clogitig Date! Jutie 30; 1988
The project consists of two subprojects, each located in distinctly dif-
ferent regions, namely Kinmundaung and Azin. The Kinmundang subproject lies in
Magwe Division in the dry zone of central Burma. The subproject would provide
year-round irrigation for about 5,000 acres. The Azin subproject is located in the
southern coastal area of Mon state. The subproject would provide irrigation for a
dry-season crop in the area as well as a full drinking water supply for Mudon Town
which has a population of 40,000. Implementation is underway.



-31-
ANNEX III
Page 1
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare the Project
A Groundwater Exploration and Pilot Development Sub-project
(under the Burma Umbrella Project) was started in
November 1978 and is scheduled to be completed in
December 1983. This project has therefore benefitted from
four years of experience gained from the Pilot project.
(b) Agencies preparing the Project
Irrigation Department assisted by Groundwater Development
Consultants, UK
Agricultural Corporation
Electric Power Corporation
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association
The draft feasibility study was submitted to the Association
in August 1982.
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission
September 1982
(e)  Date of completion of Negotiations
April 1983
(f) Planned date of Effectiveness
October 1983
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Action
None



-32-
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III:    Special Condition
The appointment of the Project Director and three
Executive Engineers to head each of the Drilling,
Civil Engineering and Mechanical Divisions of ID
(Sections 3.02(b) and 6.01 of draft DCA).



IBRD  16852R
.N <                                                                     T 95th0D'  \    /   f7F  Ye-U'    .  O'l          APRIL 1883
INDIA                                                       0                       7
CHINA
BANGLADESH 
C,~~~~::~f                                                                             Aur :<\t,' '/                  S
$  2i'THAUND  -22                                                                                                          2215
Thsm- a b-e pw- rd t0                            E      <       (1             \(g(j
Id- .sd,       f,  nu                                                     - T YY ordn\nha Z .
and lb. W--l F--
Th,,-J-lSOe Th. d.-.d Oh
-e od M. bankd-set'
cnade-s -ap ds not ,5yt -on the
part use Wr tM Wold Bakthe                                                            i
beabnd l to rve toeflornat FiOnanceVhXJz\                                     /     I /          ]                                    -
CrOat,Of The entont,n=pSsat,oS                       @     yhXI                                          Kdka/~
-o and thtbouy oaney    S'lOeVfl
an' ;od0nintnt on th Boa' status
-~ ~ ~ ~~ a    X sAL"V >.a' 
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
PROJECT AREA                                           I >            P,yitkar
10  \/  )  Payikal          h mnn 
PROJECT BOUNDARY
NEW 33/11 KV SUBSTATION, 1.5 MVA
NEW 33 KV TRANSMISSION LINE
-22sn0        ~- NEW 11 KV DISTRIBUTION
g     EXISTING 33/11 KV SUBSTATION                     ,(    .                 K
ii  *.----  EXISTING 33 KV TRANSMISSION LINE               )NI77  \\
-    .-----.--- EXISTING 11 KV DISTRIBUTION( 70mm ACSR)       \     47'
-_--G ROUNDWATER LEVEL(Feet)                    a                (CuU
TOWNSHIP BOUNDARIES                                                              Chaung  
ROADS
RAILWAYS
RIVERS
HILLS                                                        hwegu
-   -  - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0            5             10           15 '-u--
KILOMETERS  _               'I______          _\_/
MILES6                       5                     10               d
95 00,                    ~                        ~'~2      TB SiqOyi 9505.



