Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  4323-BA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
May 16, 1983
South Asia Projects Department
Irrigation I Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1.00 Kyat = US$ 0.13
K 7.80    = US$ 1.00
W4EIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 inch                                 =       2.540 centimeters (cm)
1 foot (ft)                            =       0.305 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                            =       1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                            =       0.4047 hectares (ha)
1 square mile (sq mile)                =       2.59 square kilometers (sq km)
1 lb/acre (lb/ac)                      =       1.121 kilograms/hectare (km/ha)
1 pound (lb)                           =       0.454 kilograms (kg)
1 ton (long ton -2,240 lbs)            =       1.016 metric tons (ton)
1 imperial gallon (Ig)                 =       4.546 liters (1)
1 kilowatt (kW)                        =       1,000 watts (103W)
1 Megawatt (MW)                        =       1,000 kilowatts (103kW)
1 kilovolt (kV)                        -       1,000 volts (103V)
1 kilowatt-hour (kWh)                  =       1,000 watt-hours (103kWh)
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)                  =       1,000,000 kilowatt-hours (lO6kWh)
1 Megavolt-ampere (MVA)                =       1,000 kilo-volt amperes (103kVA)
1 cubic foot/second (cusec)            =       0.025 cubic meters/second
1 acre-foot (ac ft)                    =       1,233 cubic meters (m3)
1 viss (Burmese measure of weight)             3.60 lbs or 1.63 kg



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AC              Agriculture Corporation
AMD             Agricultural Mechanization Department
ARD             Applied Research Division (of Agriculture Corporation)
EPC             Electric Power Corporation
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
GOB             Government of Burma
GRP             Glass Reinforced Plastic
HYV             High Yielding Variety
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
K               Kyat
kW              kilowatt
kWh             kilowatt hour
LS Cotton       Long Staple Cotton
M               Million
MAB             Myanma Agricultural Bank
MAF             Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MOP             Muriate of Potash
NPV             Net Present Value
OCC             Opportunity Cost of Capital
O&M             Operation and Maintenance
PS              Prudent Shopping
PSC             Project Steering Committee
PV              Present Value
SCF             Standard Conversion Factor
SMS             Subject Matter Specialist
SS Cotton       Short Staple Cotton
SV              Switching Value
TE4             Township Extension Manager
TIC             Textile Industries Corporation
TSP             Triple Super Phosphate
UNDP            United Nations Development Programme
VEM             Village Extension Manager
VTEM            Village Tract Extension Manager
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
|their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|






BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     INTRODUCTION           ...............................................                1
II. SECTORAL BACKGROUND                                ...2
Agricultural Sector...........                                                        2
Irrigation Subsector ............                                                     3
Power Sector                          ......... ....                                  4
IDA Involvement ..         ..       ... ...... .. . ......           . .              5
III.  PROJECT AREA ......................... . . . ....5
Area Selection and Topography . . . ...........................                       5
Soils .................................                   .. ..                      6
Climate 6.................. 6
Groundwater Resources 6 . .              .... o.... .                  ....          6
Population, Land Tenure and Farm Sizes                    .....                       8
Present Agricultural Situation                       .....                            8
Agricultural Support Services                            .....9
Input Supply -  .......                 .....11
Transport                           .....11
Power Supply and Demand                         .....                               12
TV. THE PROJECT .12
Project Objectives ..            .         o . .......        ..........            12
Project Components..   ...... . ...                                                 13
Project Planning Criteria .13
Detailed Features of Tubewell Irrigation Systems .13
Construction and Design of Wells                   . . .13
Pumping Units....                                                                 14
Well Head Facilities                           . . .14
Canal Drainage Systems and Structures                  . . .14
Land Levelling and Preliminary Cultivation.                  .                    15
Electric Power Supply                     . . .15
Energization of Existing Wells                    . . .16
Agricultural Supporting Services                      .         ..16
Technical Assistance and Training                 .       .                         17
Monitoring and Evaluation                     . . .18



-2-
V.    PROJECT COST AND FINANCING .................................          18
Cost Estimates         .............................................  18
Financing     .............................. ....................    20
Procurement        ................................................  20
Disbursements   ...............   ....................................  20
Accounts and Audit          .........................................  21
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .21
Organization and Management ................................         21
Implementation Schedule .22
Operation and Maintenance .23
VII.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES ..24
Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production .24
Crop Marketing and Pricing .25
VIII. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .27
Introduction .27
Selection of Power Source .28
Farm Income .28
Cost Recovery .29
Project Benefits and Justification .31
Project Risks and Sensitivity .32
IK.  RECOMMENDATIONS ............33
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1  - Site Selection Criteria and Procedures .35
ANNEX 2  -  Project Area and Implementation Data .38
Table I  -  Distribution of Farm Sizes in the Project
Area Townships .38
Table 2 - Water Balance .39
Table 3  -  Optimum Economic Well Configurations .40
Table 4  -  Recommended Numbers of Pump in Various Duty Ranges              41
Table 5 - Procurement Schedule .42
Table 6  -  Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production .47
Figure 1 - Implementation Schedule .48
Figure 2 -  Proposed Crop Rotation, Labor and Draft Power
Requirement .49
Figure 3 -  Project Organization - Construction Phase .50



-3-
Figure 4 -  Project Organization - Operational Phase .............                        51
Figure 5 - Flow Chart for Irrigation Management .52
ANNEX 3 - Cost and Expenditure Data                      ...........53
Table 1 - Cost Summary .53
Table 2 - Well Construction .54
Table 3 - Water Distribution and Drainage .55
Table 4  -  Engineering, Supervision and Administration .56
Table 5 - Power Transmission and Transformation .57
Table 6 - O&M of Constructed Works                          .....58
Table 7  -  Agricultural Extension and Applied Research .59
Table 8 - Fertilizers and Chemicals .60
Table 9 - Technical Assistance and Training .61
Table 10 - Project Evaluation .62
Table 11 - Schedule of Expenditures .63
Table 12  Proposed Allocation of the Credit .64
Table 13 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .65
ANNEX 4  -  Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services  .66
ANNE 5 - Financial and Economic Analyses .69
Table 1  -  Farmgate Prices Used in Farm Budget and
Economic Analyses    ..69
Table 2a - Price Derivation - Wheat.. .                                                   70
Table 2b - Price Derivation - Cottonseed    ..71
Table 2c - Price Derivation - Cotton                    ..72
Table 2d -  Price Derivation - Mung Bean (Pedishwewa)    .                  .73
Table 2e -  Price Derivation - Groundnuts and Sesame    .                  .74
Table 2f - Price Derivation - Fertilizers    ..75
Table 3 - Least Cost Analyses for Power Source   .                       .76
Table 4 - Build-up Assumptions                    ..77
Table 5 - Crop Budgets - Financial Prices                    .        .78
Table 6 - Crop Budgets - Economic Prices    .                        .79
Table 7a - Farm Budgets - New Wells                 ..                                    80
Table 7b -  Farm Budgets - Improved Wells                              .                  81
Table 8 - Economic Real Flow                     ..82
Table 9 - Switching Values                         ....83
ANNEX 6  -   Selected Documents and Data in the Project File ......                       84
MAPS
IBRD 16852R - Project Area
IBRD 16853 - Soils






BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    This report appraises the first groundwater irrigation project in
Burma. The project would be located in the central dry zone of the country,
where most of the potential for economical run-of-river diversion schemes has
been utilized and some other means of providing irrigation water is required
to increase crop production and farm incomes. The project would be an
integral part of the Fourth Four-Year Plan (1982/83 - 1985/86), which aims,
inter alia, at maintaining high growth in agriculture and promoting export
and import substitution particularly through crop diversification.
1.02    The Bank Agricultural Sector Mission in 1977 reported that suitable
conditions for groundwater development exist in the central dry zone of
Burma. In view of Burma's lack of experience in large scale irrigation from
groundwater, the Government of Burma (GOB), UNDP and the Bank decided in 1978
to include a Groundwater Exploration and Pilot Development Sub-project ("the
Pilot Phase") under a UNDP Technical Assistance Project (Burma Umbrella
Project), for which the Bank is the Executing Agency. The Irrigation Depart-
ment (ID) has carried out the Pilot Phase with assistance from a team of
consultants (Groundwater Development Consultants, UK) contracted by the Bank.
Four survey areas were selected -- three in the dry zone in Sagaing and
Mandalay Divisions, and one in Pegu Division. The total area covered was
about 1.1 M ac.
1.03    Work started in November 1978 and is scheduled to be completed in
December 1983. To date a total of 86 exploratory boreholes have been drilled
and 50 of these converted to pilot wells. Irrigation distribution channels
have been constructed at some of the more successful pilot wells. Well
discharges range from 0.5 to 2.0 cusecs and commanded area from 25 to 150 ac
per well. These investigations delineated sufficient groundwater potential
for large-scale irrigation development in Sagaing Division, centered on the
town of Monywa, where the proposed project would be located.
1.04    The consultants submitted the draft feasibility study report for the
project in August 1982. An appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. H. Azumi,
P.M. Tamboli and K. Jechoutek (IDA) and W. Barber (Consultant) visited Burma
during September/October 1982. This report is based on the mission's
findings.



-2-
II. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
Agricultural Sector
2.01    Agriculture, including livestock, forestry and fisheries, continues
to be the principal sector of the Burmese economy, accounting directly for
about 45% of GDP, 65% of the labor force, and 80% of total exports in
1981/82. Rice, the major agricultural and export commodity, is also a sig-
nificant source of government revenue through implicit taxation from
GOB-controlled pricing and exportation. Rice is planted on over 50% (13 M
ac) of the total sown area (25 M ac) and accounts for more than one-third of
total agricultural output. Other main crops include sesame (15% of the gross
sown area), pulses (8%), groundnuts (5%), industrial crops (5%), and planta-
tion crops (5%). As a major export item, rice accounted for 77% of agricul-
tural export revenue in 1981/82, followed by blackgram (6%), jute (6%),
rubber (5%) and oilcakes (3%).
2.02    During the 1960s and early 1970s, value added in agriculture rose at
only about 1.6% p.a., well below the prevailing 2.2% population growth rate,
and as a result the rice export surplus declined to less than 200,000 tons
compared to more than 3 M tons pre-war. This unsatisfactory performance can
be attributed to a number of inter-related factors, including unsettling
changes in land policy, inadequate farmer incentives and the initial failures
of imported high yielding paddy varieties which proved ill-adapted to local
conditions.
2.03    Faced with this situation, the government responded in two principal
ways. First, beginning in 1973/74, a series of policy reforms were under-
taken designed to improve incentives and provide for greater flexibility in
the farming sector: for instance, procurement prices were substantially
increased; mandatory procurement quotas were reduced; certain commodities
were decontrolled; there was a major tax and exchange reform; and Government
greatly increased its willingness to accept foreign assistance. Secondly,
emphasis was placed on evolving HYVs adapted to local conditions and promot-
ing their use, together with subsidized agricultural inputs, through a major
new government program (the Whole Township Extension Program). By and large
these policies have proved successful. Despite only limited further price
increase, incentives have been sufficient to encourage the adoption of HYVs
through the Whole Township Program. Consequently, between 1974/75-1981/82,
paddy production increased from 8.4 M tons to 13.9 M tons, and the overall
growth in agricultural value-added averaged no less than 7.2% per annum.
2.04    Further production increases are no doubt possible through inten-
sification of areas already planted to HYVs and area expansion through, for
instance, low cost rehabilitation and land reclamation programs. There is
also considerable potential for crop diversification, and the Whole Township
Program has been extended to other crops, in particular maize and wheat and
oilseeds. Industrial crops, such as cotton, are also being given greater
attention and there is considerable potential for increased production of
horticultural crops, tree crops, livestock and fisheries. A major GOB policy



-3-
objective is to reduce dependence on rice exports in the face of uncertain
market prospects, in part through crop diversification.
2.05    Nevertheless, while the prospects appear good, further increases in
paddy yields and a major crop diversification program will inevitably prove
more difficult to achieve than the past introduction of the highly profitable
HYV paddy technologies. The Government remains committed to a strong public
role in input supply, marketing and procurement and, through the People's
Councils, closely supervises the overall cropping pattern. However, if the
momentum achieved in recent years is to be sustained, GOB will need to keep
its general policy framework under close scrutiny in order to provide a basis
for further timely policy adjustments. In particular, procurement prices
have now remained virtually unchanged for a number of years and, while incen-
tives have been sustained by free market sales and subsidized inputs,
increase in procurement prices could well become necessary if the more dif-
ficult tasks of further yield enhancement and crop diversification are to be
achieved.
2.06    In support of GOB's development strategy, IDA-assisted projects in
irrigation, flood protection and rubber have made a notable contribution in
increasing the planted area and further facilitating widespread adoption of
HYVs. IDA will continue to assist government in consolidating past gains in
paddy production while increasing effort to diversify into non-paddy crops,
for instance through the crops to be promoted under the proposed projects.
In the context of its general economic reporting, IDA will also keep general
policy issues under review and will aim to broaden its dialogue on those
policy adjustments necessary to sustain rapid agricultural growth.
Irrigation Sub-sector
2.07    Irrigation has been an important feature of Burmese agriculture for
many centuries. Burmese kings built river diversion and tank schemes in the
central dry zone and the British built many new schemes during the colonial
period. The most notable of these were the flood control schemes in the
Irrawady and Sittang deltas, which significantly increased paddy cultivation
and developed Burma into a major rice-exporting country. Nevertheless, large
potential still exists for further irrigation development. In 1981/82, total
irrigated area was 2.6 M ac, only about 10% of the total cultivated area. Of
this irrigated area, only 14% was double-cropped.
2.08    The main sources of irrigation water are river diversion schemes
(serving a total irrigable area of at least 1.6 M ac), dams and reservoirs
(serving around 190,000 ac) and pump schemes (serving about 380,000 ac) and
others (about 430,000 ac). In central dry zone of Burma, lack of reliable
irrigation water is one of the major constraints in increasing agricultural
production. Although rivers in the area could offer possibilities of pump
irrigation, seasonal fluctuations in river flows are so large that any lift
irrigation scheme would be extremely costly and technically difficult. In
the absence of reliable and economic source of surface water for irrigation,
groundwater provides the best alternative. The technical and economic
viability of groundwater irrigation in the project area was established
during the Pilot Phase. Groundwater has traditionally been exploited as a



-4-
source of irrigation water through the use of maung dets - buckets at one end
of a pivoting arm that are lowered into shallow wells through levers. More
recently, Burmese farmers have begun using small diesel-driven pumps to
irrigate from shallow dug wells. These systems of using groundwater are only
effective where the water table is fairly near the surface - within about 20
ft of ground level. They do not normally yield discharges of more than 0.5
cusec and are usually only used to irrigate small areas for high-value crops
such as vegetables or paddy nurseries. The shallow dug wells currently
provide irrigation water for about 39,000 ac, or 1.5% of the total irrigable
area. Prior to 1977, when the Pilot Phase started, deeper irrigation
tubewells were not in use. Consequently, deep tubewells are expected to play
a significant role in crop diversification and regional balance in Burma's
future agricultural development.
2.09    During the last few years, operations of ID have expanded rapidly.
Authorized staff positions increased from about 6,800 in 1973 to about 20,000
in 1982, and the number of major projects under implementation, from 8 to 17.
Its budget has increased nearly seven-fold. The rapid expansion has created
strains within the organization, particularly in planning and design. To
help ID ease this problem, a technical assistance and training component for
planning and design has been included in a recently approved tank irrigation
project (IDA Cr. 1315-BA). In the field of groundwater irrigation, techni-
cal assistance in groundwater exploration and pilot development has been
provided to ID for the last four years under the Burma Umbrella Project (para
1.02).
Power Sector
2.10    Since all the tubewells under the proposed project would be elec-
trified, the electric power supply is an important element of the project.
The Electric Power Corporation (EPC), under the Ministry of Industry II,
currently owns and operates generation facilities of 551 MW installed
capacity. Other government corporations own captive generating plants with
an installed capacity of 135 MW. The present EPC system consists of the
Hydrogrid system (337 MW), the Prome-Myanaung-Myaungmya system (85 MW), the
Mann system (36 MW) and other isolated power stations (93 MW). Construction
is now underway for plants that would produce a further 164 MW. An ongoing
project financed by IDA (Burma Power Project, Credit 1245-BA) would provide
facilities to integrate these systems. This project consists of transmission
lines, transformer substations and a load dispatch center linking the three
main grids.
2.11    The total energy generated by  EPC's power stations in 1981/82 was
1,393 GWh. The present generating capacity is sufficient to cover system
peak demand (the maximum demand in 1982 was 224 MW). However, due to the
lack of a transmission network to integrate the three isolated systems,
substantial amounts of potential energy generation cannot be utilized. The
present plant capacity factor of EPC is low. EPC's system losses are high,
amounting to an estimated 32% in 1981/82 mainly due to the high distribution
loss. A system loss reduction unit was established in November 1981 and it
is expected that these problems will be largely solved on completion of the
Power Project.



-5-
2.12    EPC's total energy sales in 1981/82 amounted to 950 GWh, of which
industrial consumption accounted for 53%; domestic, 30%; commercial and other
consumption, 17%. The maximum grid demand in MW is estimated to increase at
an average annual rate of 8.0% during 1982/83 to 1990/91. In 1986/87, the
installed capacity would be about 605 MW; maximum demand would be about 308
MW and units generated about 1,869 GWh.
IDA Involvement
2.13    IDA lending to Burma resumed in 1973 and since then 20 credits
totalling US$536.3 M equivalent (net of cancellations) have been made.
Reflecting GOB's priority in agriculture, about 55% of IDA assistance has
been for that sector, consisting of twelve projects: low lift irrigation,
rubber, livestock, seed development, two paddy land development projects,
grain storage, two forestry projects, wood industry, a major multi-purpose
dam, and a medium tank irrigation project. A power transmission project was
approved in 1982. So far only one (low-lift irrigation) of the above irriga-
tion projects has been completed. Although there was a cost overrun of about
35%, its objectives were fully met. Other on-going irrigation projects are
progressing satisfactorily although experiencing some delay mainly due to
shortage of fuel and construction material. The government's performance in
making budgetary provisions and meeting the local costs in these projects
have been generally satisfactory. One aspect in need of strengthening has
been the monitoring and evaluation of project impacts. However, GOB has
recently introduced a more effective system in consultation with IDA and with
assistance of consultants.
III. PROJECT AREA
Area Selection and Topography
3.01    The area surveyed during the Pilot Phase covered a surface of 320 sq
miles on an alluvial plain and included parts of the Townships of Monywa,
Chaung U and Budalin. It is bordered to the west by the Chindwin Piver, to
the east by a range of hills while the northern and southern boundaries
crossing the plain are not marked by specific physical features. From this
survey area the project area has been chosen on the basis of hydrogeological
condition, soils, land use, agricultural and economic conditions, and
farmers' demand for irrigation water. The selected area (Map IBRD 16852R),
covers a gross surface of about 130 sq miles (83,200 ac) after exclusion of:
(a)  the areas where groundwater is less than 20 ft below land sur-
face and thus is easily exploited by the private sector using
maung-dets (para 2.04) or centrifugal pumps; and
(b)  the areas where the groundwater level is greater than 100 ft
below land surface and well yields are lower.



-6-
3.02    The southern part of the project area drains directly to the Chindwin
by westerly flowing streams while the northern part of the project area,
separated from the Chindwin by low hills, is drained by the southerly flowing
Thade Chaung, which joins the Chindwin just north of Monywa. Regionally, the
land is flat, but the detailed relief is much more pronounced in the north
with much of the northern part of the area consisting of strongly undulating
land.
Soils
3.03    Map IBRD 16853 presents soil groups in the project area.  The
northwestern part of the project area has either slowly draining clay soils
or moderately to well drained, fine to medium textured soils on gently
undulating land with flat slopes. The southern part includes a range of soil
types including well drained medium textured soils, moderately drained fine
textured soils and slowly drained clay soils. All the soils of the northwest
and south are suitable for irrigation and, with the surveys available, and
the detailed soil surveys being conducted by ID (para 6.05), site selection
for tubewell irrigation systems should not present any problem. In the
northeastern part of the area, on the other hand, there is a broad tract of
truncated variable soils on eroded, strongly undulating land interspersed
with areas of slowly drained, fine textured soils. Areas suitable for
tubewell irrigation, however, do occur throughout this tract.
Climate
3.04    The region has a tropical monsoon climate with a wet season from May
to October, a cool dry season from November to January and a hot dry season
from February to April.  On average, about 85% of annual rainfall occurs
during the months of May to October. The project area lies within the dry
zone of central Burma at the foot of the Rakhine Yoma and the Chin Hills.
The mean annual rainfall is about 32 inches, but rainfall varies from year to
year (the 1971-8i record includes years with rainfall as high as 55 inches
and as low as 17 inches). The rainfall regime typically has a bimodal dis-
tribution and July is generally drier than May-June and August-October.
However, rainfall is generally erratic and localized; torrential storms also
occur, during which several inches of rain may fall within a few hours.
3.05    December and January are the coolest months with average maximum
temperatures less than 85oF and average minimum temperatures below 650F. In
February and March temperatures rise and peak in April when the average
maximum exceeds 100oF. The monsoon period remains relatively hot with daily
maximums averaging about 94oF. Relative humidity exceeds 70% from May
through December but falls to near 40% during the hot dry months of March and
April. Winds are generally light except during cyclonic storms.
Groundwater Resources
3.06    In the project area, suitable aquifers exist to support the proposed
development under the project. The aquifer system is formed by alluvial



-7-
deposits which contain beds of unconsolidated sand and gravel, and the under-
lying Irrawaddian formation that includes weakly cemented fine to coarse
sandstones and gravels, and is overlain by beds of clay in the south. The
proportion of aquifer material between the uppermost deposit of alluvial silt
and clay and the Irrawaddian formation is generally about 70%. The thickness
of alluvium varies within the project area from a maximum of about 200 ft in
the north, thinning to the south and east. Depth to water level increases
from about 20 ft to 100 ft below land surface in a west-to-east direction
across the project area. The upper 10-40 ft of the alluvium is typically
formed of clay and silt deposits. Drilling has demonstrated the presence of
the Irrawaddian formation at depths of 300 to 600 ft.
3.07    An analysis of available data acquired through the Pilot Phase indi-
cates that the lateral permeability varies from about 0.005 ft/sec (medium
permeability) in the upper aquifer layers to about 0.0016 ft/sec (low per-
meability) in the lower layers, and the specific drawdown from 5.0 to 20
ft/cusec. The aquifer systems are recharged by direct infiltration from
rainfall and by deep percolation and lateral movement of groundwater from
flows in the streams which originate from the eastern mountain range. Dis-
charge components include outflows to the Chindwin, evaporation from shallow
water table areas, transpiration by vegetation and abstraction (pumping) by
existing wells. Essentially all discharge under existing conditions occurs
between the western boundary of the project area and the Chindwin.
3.08    Data are not available to calculate precisely the water balance in
the project area. However, an analysis of the approximate parameters deter-
mined from the pump tests carried out on various wells under the Pilot Phase
indicates that the annual lateral flow through the project area averages
about 20 M ft3 per sq mile, and the vertical infiltration, including release
from storage due to water level fluctuations amounts to about 4 M ft3 per sq
mile. The total groundwater potential would thus seem to average about 24 M
ft3 per sq mile, of which about 70% or 16.8 M ft3 could be recovered without
mining the aquifer substantially. Assuming that a well would be pumped on
the average about 2,600 hours per year (or 185 days, 14 hours daily), the
average capacity of the wellfield should be limited to about 1.8 cusecs per
sq mile.
3.09    The groundwater quality in the project area is variable.  Electrical
conductivity (EC) ranges from less than 1,000 umhos/cm to about 2,000
umhos/cm. Sodium absorption ratios (SAR) generally fall within the range of
2.5-7.5. Residual sodium carbonate (RSC) ranges from 5 to 10 meq/L. When
classified for irrigation, the waters present a medium to fairly high
salinity hazard and a low sodium hazard. Groundwater in the project area is
considered generally suitable for irrigation. However, because of medium to
high salinity of water, provision of drainage works is essential and has been
provided under the project. The waters present minimal corrosion problems
but have some tendency for incrustation. The proposed use of glass rein-
forced plastic (GRP) tubular materials for production sections in the wells
would eliminate any possibility of corrosion and would also minimize the
incrustation hazard.



-8-
Population, Land Tenure and Farm Sizes
3.10    Population.  The total population of the three townships affected by
the project, Monywa, Budalin and Chaung U, is about 377,000. About 70% live
in rural areas spread over 107 village tracts. Of these, the project area
covers a total of 53 village tracts with a population of about 120,800 in
about 24,150 households. About 65% of the project area population live in
Monywa Township; 27% in Budalin; and the remaining 8% in Chaung U. Although
the agricultural sector is the most important economic activity, there are
also well diversified service and manufacturing sectors, particularly in
Monywa Town. This town with about 100,000 population would be the main
market for project agricultural produce, especially cotton, since Monywa is a
major textile processing center employing 60% of the Town's work force.
3.11    Land Tenure.  Based on the land reform laws and regulations enacted
from 1953 to 1963, all land ownership rights are formally vested in the
state. A farmer has lifetime cultivation rights to land allocated to him and
can normally bequest this to his children, provided they remain farmers.
There has been no radical redistribution of land in the project area in
recent years, and land cultivation rights are unevenly spread. About 25% of
rural families in the project area own no land. Although some of these have
non-farming occupations, many earn their living as hired laborers, and there
appears to be no shortage of available labor to be hired.
3.12    Farm Sizes.  Annex 2, Table 1 summarizes overall distribution of
farms by size in the project area. The average farm size (10 ac) is larger
than the national average of about 6.0 ac, but many farmers have much smaller
holdings; a quarter of farmers have less than 4 ac. These farmers would
probably supplement their on-farm incomes by working for other farmers, thus
adding to the pool of hired labor available.
Present Agricultural Situation
3.13    The main crops in the project area are paddy, sesame, groundnuts,
wheat and chickpea. In Budalin, and Chaung U, paddy is the most important
grain crop while wheat is the main grain crop in Monywa. The bimodal charac-
ter of the rainfall distribution with an early monsoon period of rain from
mid-April to July averaging over 11 inches encourages planting of short
duration crops. Of these a 75 day growing period sesame variety is the most
common. A large portion of this crop fails due to insufficient or excessive
moisture during the growing season. Other crops planted during the early
monsoon period are maize, cotton and groundnuts. Following the often dry
month of July, the main monsoon rains (about 19 inches) fall in August to
October, during which period paddy is grown. After the main rains, the
remaining land is ploughed and harrowed in October for later monsoon crops of
wheat, chickpea, maize and groundnuts. All these crops depend largely on
residual moisture and late rainfall in November. In years of low monsoon
rainfall or absence of rainfall in November/December, crop failure and very
low yields from winter crops are widespread. The present average cropping
intensity is about 115%.



-9-
3.14    Bullock power is utilized by a majority of farmers for land prepara-
tion. In the last two-three years, new seed of high yielding varieties of
several crops has been distributed by the Agricultural Corporation (AC) and
has been readily accepted by farmers. Chemical fertilizers are only avail-
able through AC, which rations them to farmers planting government-planned
crops. Overall average fertilizer use in the project area is insignificant.
Pests are at present only a major problem with cotton and in food storage.
Present crop yields are low. The existing cropping pattern and average
yields together with those projected with- and without-project are summarized
in Annex 2, Table 6.
Agricultural Support Services
3.15    The Irrigation Department (ID) of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forests is responsible for construction and maintenance of surface and
groundwater irrigation schemes. In the project area, ID is responsible for
the groundwater investigation program within the three project townships.
The technical staff of ID's subdivision in Monywa consists of one assistant
engineer, five sub-assistance engineers and two part-time engineering sur-
veyors. The sub-division is responsible for maintenance work of existing
irrigation systems in all project townships.
3.16    The Agricultural Corporation (AC) of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forests is responsible, inter alia, for agricultural extension and research,
the coordination of fertilizer and agricultural chemical distribution, and
seed multiplication and distribution. Within AC, two research divisions are
operative--the Applied Research Division (ARD) at Gyogon (Rangoon) and the
Agricultural Research Institute at Yezin. The Extension Division is also
located at Rangoon. ARD administers 24 seed farms and 18 central farms
scattered throughout the country. Its objectives are to multiply and produce
high quality seeds. The farms are organized by crop; those producing paddy,
groundnut, cotton, jute and sesame are receiving development support,
improved facilities and technical assistance under an IDA-financed project
(Cr. 745-BA). Cotton research is also being supported under a UNDP/FAO
project. The central farms are responsible for plant breeding, crop selec-
tion, yield testing, cultural and fertilizer experiments and extension
manager training. Applied research is carried out in 16 central experimental
stations distributed throughout the country, one of which is located in the
project area at Kyehmon. The Extension Department has responsibility for
implementing agricultural plans, procuring and distributing agricultural
supplies and disseminating research information to farmers. The farm level
extension worker is the Village Extension Manager (VEM). Several VEMs are
supervised by a Village Tract Extension Manager (VTEM), who in turn reports
to a Township Manager. The township level staff are supported by officers at
divisional and national levels.
3.17    The Whole Township Extension Program are now the main vehicle for
extension activities, and have been in operation in both Monywa and Budalin
townships since 1980. A typical program has the following components:
-   establishment of a special committee to promote the program
at township level;



-10-
-   staff strengthening, particularly at the Deputy Township Manager
and VEM level;
distribution of HYV seed and increased provision of fertilizers
and chemicals;
-   promotion of a set of agricultural practices through intensified
contacts between different levels of the staff and through inten-
sified contacts between VEMs and villagers; and
-   mass mobilization activities at periods of maximum labor use
(harvesting, transplanting).
The central focus for a program covering 10-15 village tracts is the produc-
tion camp.  There are 5-7 such camps in a township.  The VTEMs and VEMs live
together at the production camp, which is also the center for publicity,
training session and input distribution.
3.18    Currently, AC has a total of 104 staff in the three townships.
Actual staffing intensities are such that the cultivated areas per extension
worker ranges from 2,600 to over 6,000 ac. Additional staff would be
provided under the project so that about 1,000 to 1,500 ac (150-250 farmers)
would be assigned per extension agent. Due to transport shortages, mobility
of the extension staff is limited.
3.19    The Myanma Agricultural Bank (MAB) is the main official source of
agricultural credit. It was established in 1976 to reactivate provision of
seasonal credit to farmers through township banks. The current interest rate
charged to farmers is 12% for seasonal and longer term loans. At present 29
crops are eligible for MAB loans, the main ones being paddy and oilseeds.
Paddy accounts for 82% of the total volume of lending. Term loans are made
to assist farmers in the purchase of bullocks and pumps. Farmers supplement
credit available from MAB by forward sales of crops to cooperatives and the
Textile Industry Corporation. MAB's loan recovery rate is about 90%.
3.20    The Agriculture and Food Products Trade Corporation (AFPTC), is the
main agency responsible for paddy procurement on a national basis. In the
project area only Budalin township is a surplus paddy area; the other town-
ships are rice-deficit areas to which AFPTC distributes rice procured else-
where in Sagaing Division. In the project area, AFPTC's main role is the
procurement of pulses and maize including mung beans. Textile Industries
Corporation (TIC) under the Ministry of Industry No. 1 has cotton buying and
processing facilities in Monywa, where 14 gins are maintained. Farmers
receive interest-free advance purchase payments for cotton at the rate of
K 210 /ac from TIC. Foodstuffs Industries Corporation (FIC) under the Minis-
try of Industry No. 1 is responsible for purchase of wheat. New facilities
for wheat storage are being rented in Monywa and FIC is planning to establish
a flour mill in Sagaing, about 90 miles from Monywa.
3.21      Cooperatives.  There are many cooperative organizations within the
project area. In each township there is a township cooperative society to



-11-
which varying numbers of other cooperatives are affiliated. One of the major
cooperative activities in every township is crop procurement and distribu-
tion. Crops are often procured on a forward sales basis. A cooperative aims
to buy a specific quota of various crops. The farmer is paid up to 70% of
crop value in advance. A second major function of cooperatives is the dis-
tribution of various rationed goods, on a quota basis, which are sold through
the village tract and township consumer cooperatives. At the village level,
the village tract cooperative undertakes distribution of fertilizers. A
cooperative advances fertilizers to farmers, who then pay at harvest. A
cooperative borrows from the MAB to finance fertilizer purchase, and farmers
pay a financing charge in addition to the normal transport and handling
charges.
3.22    Farmer's Group.  The Village Tract People's Council and the Peasant's
Asiayone, in collaboration with Burma Socialist Program Party (BSPP) and AC
at village-level, serve as an important forum for farmer groups. At
village-level, individual farmers are likely to be members of a number of
organizations. All farmers are represented by the local Village Tract
People's Council. Water user groups have been established to represent
farmer interests in some tubewell pilot schemes (para 6.08).
Input Supply
3.23     The township agro-economic surveys have shown that current fer-
tilizer usage in the project area is almost insignificant; average usage has
fluctuated between 1.4 and 4.5 kg/ac of urea, between 0.5 and 1.4 kg/ac of
triple super phosphate (TSP), and between 0 and 0.2 kg/ac of muriate of
potash (MOP). The recommended input levels for tubewell commanded areas for
various crops range from 14 to 110 kg of urea, from 27 to 110 kg of TSP and
from 0 to 40 kg of MOP per acre. Burma is a net importer of the three main
fertilizers and all incremental requirements of fertilizer will have to be
imported. Recent projections of overall fertilizer requirements made in
connection with the ASDB/OPEC-funded Crop Intensification Program (ASDB/1981)
indicate that even when local urea production capacity reaches 370,000 tons
per year in 1987, imports of urea will still be required.
3.24    Fertilizers are distributed and sold to farmers by AC at highly
subsidized prices which are uniform throughout Burma. Farmers or village
tract cooperatives handle transport from distribution points, usually town-
ship or production camp godowns. Demand for fertilizer invariably exceeds
the supply and therefore, a rationing system is currently operating with
priority usually given government-controlled and internationally traded
crops.
Transport
3.25    An all-weather highway from Mandalay, which continues north to Ye U,
serves the project area. Large numbers of privately owned passenger and
freight vehicles use the highway and there is reportedly considerable spare
capacity available if freight requirements increase. The railway line from
Mandalay to Budalin passes through the project area. Service is slow and
inefficient, and there is little spare capacity. Small vessels operate on



-12-
the Chindwin River throughout the year, but long distance bulk transport is
only possible from July to October. Consequently, most incremental demand
from the project would be met through road transport.
Power Supply and Demand
3.26    Until November 1982, electricity to the project area had been sup-
plied by EPC's two main coal-powered generators at Monywa (3.0 MW). These
generally only operated from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. on alternate days and supplied
the towns of Monywa, Budalin and Chaung U and the village of Alon. The
coal-fired plant supplied a limited number of daytime industrial consumers
for about eight hours per day. In 1981/82, about 2.4 GWh were generated in
the project area, of which about 2.2 GWh were sent out and about 1.6 GWh sold
to about 3,900 consumers. The high losses in the small system were
attributable to the inadequate and overloaded distribution system. The sales
split of electricity consumption by consumer category in 1981/82 was 77% domes-
tic/ commercial, 8% industrial, and 15% others.
3.27    The power supply has been significantly increased and become more
reliable with completion in November 1982 of a 132 kV transmission lines
connecting Monywa with the Kyunchaung gas turbine power station. The line is
currently energized at 33 kV to Monywa and has a capacity of about 15 MVA. A
new 5 MVA, 33/11 kV substation was completed at Monywa and supplies the area.
The substation is likely to be fully loaded by about 1985/86 (in addition to
the present connected load of about 1.5 MVA, new industrial and institutional
consumers together with 3,000 pending domestic and commercial applications
will increase the loading to about 4.5 MVA at peak within a few years).
3.28    Unconstrained potential demand (apart from irrigation) is estimated
to be about 4.5 GWh per year in 1982. This demand has been satisfied after
the recent connection of the project area to the grid. To accommodate fur-
ther consumption growth, EPC is planning to upgrade and reinforce the exist-
ing distribution network in the area. This will involve replacement of
distribution transformers, and, eventually, reconductoring of the 11 kV
lines.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
4.01    The project would increase crop production and farm incomes in the
project area by expanding irrigated area from about 2,000 ac in 1983 to
20,000 ac in 1989 through development of groundwater resources. The
capability of ID in groundwater exploration and development and of AC in
adaptive research and extension would be strengthened.



-13-
Project Components
4.02    The project would include the following major components:
(a)  construction of about 106 new deep tubewells and provision
of pumping equipment;
(b)  construction of irrigation and drainage systems for these
106 new tubewells;
(c)  construction of a power distribution system from the
existing 33 kV line to the 106 new tubewells and to 25
existing tubewells;
(d)  provision of agricultural support including extension and
applied research and provision of fertilizers and chemicals;
(e)  technical assistance and training; and
(f)  monitoring and evaluation.
Project Planning Criteria
4.03    Out of the 83,200 ac gross surface of the project area, about 106
commands would be selected based on appropriate physical, agricultural and
institutional factors. Detailed site selection procedures agreed with GOB
are presented in Annex 1. Including the command areas of the existing 25
tubewells, the total net command area under the project would amount to about
20,000 ac.
4.04     The project water supply would be provided by 25 existing tubewells
with a total command area of 2,150 ac, 28 new 1 cusec tubewells serving about
2,720 ac and 78 new 2 cusec tubewells serving about 15,130 ac. Abstraction
would be about equally distributed over the development area. Thus 2 cusec
wells would be spaced about 5,500 ft apart and a 1 cusec well would be
located about 3,900 ft from an adjacent 1 cusec well, or 4,700 ft from a 2
cusec well. The water duty at well head would be 1 cusec per 97 ac and
annual utilization is expected to reach 2,600 hours at full development.
Detailed Features of Tubewell Irrigation Systems (Annex 3, Tables 2-6)
4.05    Construction and Design of Wells.  The wells would be drilled by
direct circulation rotary drilling using bentonite mud fluid. Drilling would
be carried out by the two existing drilling rigs purchased during the Pilot
Phase. 1/ The project would provide spares and consumables (Annex 3, Table
2). A pilot hole would be drilled at each site to determine actual aquifer
conditions and then reamed to 20 inch diameter to the design depth of the
pump chamber and to 12 1/4 inch diameter for the production string. The pump
chamber would be mild steel and the production string of GRP pipe and screen.
A 1 cusec well would have a pump chamber of 10 inch internal diameter (i.d.)
1/ Truck mounted hydraulic drilling rigs with mud pumps, direct circulation
and reverse circulation swivels. One more rig of the same type purchased
during the Pilot Phase would be used for further exploration of new
areas.



-14-
and a production string of 6 inch i.d. and a 2 cusec well would have a 12
inch i.d. pump chamber and 6 and 8 inch i.d. production string. Annex 2,
Table 3 presents theoretical optimum well configurations for a range of
discharges and initial depths to water level.
4.06    Pumping Units.  Vertical lineshaft pumps powered by vertically
mounted electric motors or electric submersible pumps would be installed.
The starter relay would be of Star Delta type and a capacitor of suitable
size and a low voltage protection device would be incorporated in the circuit
for pump motor protection. A solid state meter would be installed to record
the hours of operation of the pump unit.
4.07    Well Head Facilities.  The pump house would be of wood and bamboo
construction with a concrete floor around the well head plinth. Pumped water
would be delivered to a brick-built, cement-faced discharge box.
4.08    Canal and Drainage Systems and Structures.  Field boundary distribu-
tion would be reorganized in each tubewell command area to produce a rectan-
gular pattern of half acre blocks. The government distribution system would
be extended to the turn-out to a half acre block. The farmers are expected
to sub-divide half acre blocks into appropriately sized basins and to con-
struct channels from the government turn-out to the basins.
4.09    A lined main canal feeding to unlined earth field channels is
proposed except on very sandy soils where the entire government distribution
system would be lined (estimated at 10% of the systems). The main canal
would be of plastered brick with 1:1 side slope, a bottom width of 1 ft and a
freeboard of 5 inch set in 2 ft wide earth banks. The unlined field channels
would be constructed with compacted embankments with 1:1 side slopes, an
invert 9 inch wide at or about ground level and banks 2 ft wide. Compaction
equipment would be provided by the project. Sample quantities for lined and
unlined channels are listed below:
System Capacity    Lines 2 Cusec  Lined 1 Cusec   Unlined 1 Cusec
Channel          Channel          Channel
(cusec)               (ft)             (ft)             (ft)
1                   -              1,825           13,200
2                 2,310              365           24,400
4.10    Main canal division box and offtake structures of brick construction
with steel gates would be provided on 2 cusec systems. Brick built offtakes
with steel gates would be provided at junctions between the main canal and
field channels on 1 cusec systems. A suitable outlet would be installed at
each half acre turn-out from the field channels. Other structures include
drops, concrete pipe culverts for permanent road access, and wooden bridges
for ox cart access to farmers fields.
4.11    The field collector drains would run across the ends of a line of
half acre plots and parallel to the next downstream field channel. A nominal
depth of field drains of 2 ft is proposed. The main drain would run across
the ends of the field channels and would be sized according to the slope and



-15-
design discharge. Drop structures would be provided if land slope exceeds
permissible channel velocity.
4.12    Land Leveling and Preliminary Cultivation.  Land levelling, deep
cultivation, surface tillage and land smoothing would be carried out for all
the command areas as part of the government construction program and financed
by the project.
4.13    Electric Power Supply.  Present value analyses of various alternative
power sources for pumping indicate that electricity would be least cost if
the peak energy demand period (between 6-10 p.m.) is avoided (Annex 5,
Table 3). Lack of diesel fuel severely hampered utilization of wells during
the Pilot Phase. The project would eliminate this problem by electrifying
tubewells. Given the poor state of the existing 11 kV lines connecting
Monywa with Budalin and Chaung-U, and considering many institutional problems
associated with integrated systems, an entirely separate distribution system
would be constructed for tubewell electrification including new 33 kV lines,
33/11 kV substations and their attendant 11 kV transmission lines, 11/0.4
transformation and low tension (LT) connections. The service area extends
from north to south over about 26 miles and is roughly bisected by the
east-west Mandalay-Monywa road (Map IBRD 16852R). The demand would be evenly
spread over the area. A 33 kV line, now completed runs south to Monywa along
the Western border of the project area. The new system would consist of two
33 kV lines from the existing EPC substation in Monywa, four packaged 33/11
kV substations, each feeding an 11 kV ring.  All water points would be con-
nected to the 11 kV mains through 11 kV spur lines with 11/0.4 kV trans-
formers at each water point, thus minimizing the length of 400v connection
line. This configuration represents the least cost solution, since the load
is evenly distributed throughout the project area.
4.14    The connected load at the water points would total 2.5 MVA or total
about 2.8 MVA at the 33/11 kV substation in Monywa. A 1.5 MVA transformer
would be provided for each substation, and would be a packaged outdoor unit
with an indoor control cubicle and an on-line auto tap changing facility.
The capacity of these substations takes into account of possible future
village electrification. The whole tubewell system would, if necessary, be
de-energized by EPC operators at the sub-station(s) during peak hours.
4.15    Steel reinforced aluminum conductor (ACSR) would be used for all
voltages. The poles and cross arms would be of locally produced teak. The
main lines would be 50 mna ACSR and the spur lines of 30 mm2 ACSR. Estimated
lengths of conductors are 240 miles of 50 mm2 ACSR, 149 miles of 30 mm2 ACSR
conductor. A preliminary layout diagram for the 11 kV distribution network
is shown by Map IBRD 16852R. Detailed alignment would be made after exact
locations of water points are determined.
4.16    It is estimated that 64 x 25 kVA and 67 x 50 kVA transformers would
be required. 3 x 25 kVA and 3 x 50 kVA spare transformers would also be
procured. All 400 v line connections would be 4-core, 10 mm2, polyvinyl
chloride (PVC) insulated, steel wire armoured, PVC sheathed copper cable
direct to the well control box and thence in the same cable to the motor
junction box.



-16-
4.17    Energization of Existing Wells.  A total of 25 tubewell irrigation
systems have been constructed under the Pilot Phase. They have been equipped
with diesel engine powered pumps, but lack of diesel fuel presented an insur-
mountable problem for the proper operation of their systems. It is therefore
proposed that the pumping wells be converted to electric motor prime movers
to be energized by the electric power supply system.
4.18    This component would involve extending power lines to the existing
water points, replacing the diesel motors by electric motors and modifying
the drive to the pumps. Modification of the pumping units would involve
provision of a horizontally mounted electric motor prime mover to operate at
1,450 rpm and a step-up (1,450 to 1,850 rpm) gear box together with electri-
cal starter relays and pump motor protection devices.
Agricultural Supporting Services
4.19    To ensure that farmers on new and existing irrigation systems are
able to reap full potential benefits for the water made available, the
project would strengthen adaptive research and agricultural extension in the
project area and improve input supply.
4.20    Adaptive Research.  Aside from the limited experience during the
Pilot Phase, data on irrigated crops (cotton, wheat and beans) are not avail-
able specifically for the project area. It would therefore be necessary to
(a) investigate water management and improve agronomic practices; (b) test
various cropping and water management systems; (c) train agricultural staff
in irrigated cropping and (d) give demonstrations to farmers. Consequently,
the project would strengthen the existing demonstration farm at Kyehmon
(Monywa Township) and would provide for (a) a farm manager, (b) construction
of farm buildings, (c) purchase of farm equipment and (d) operation and
maintenance costs. In addition, an irrigation agronomy expert would be
provided for 36 man-months who, in collaboration with the cotton research at
Yezin and with the assistance of the Farm Manager at Kyehmon, would conduct
applied research on irrigated cotton, wheat and beans with a view to for-
mulating specific agronomic recommendations for irrigated crops within the
project area.
4.21    Agricultural Extension.  The village tract managers based at produc-
tion camps would be given special training in water management techniques and
in agronomic practices appropriate to irrigated crops. The project would
therefore provide for (a) construction of six new production camps; (b) a
farm manager; (c) a project manager (AC); (d) three SMSs; (e) four deputy
township managers; (f) seven VTEMs; and (g) 26 VEMs with adequate transport
(for detailed build-up and costs see Annex 3, Tabl,e 7). The project would
also establish demonstration plots in farmers' fields, three in Monywa town-
ship and one each in Budalin and Chaung-U townships.
4.22    Input Supply.   Substantial increase in fertilizer and agricultural
chemical utilization would accompany the expansion in irrigated cropping.
The project would finance foreign exchange costs of incremental fertilizer



-1.7-
and chemical imports. This provision would cover farmers' initial incremen-
tal needs, estimated at 2,300 tons of urea, 2,100 tons of TSP and 800 tons of
MOP and K 2.7 M worth of chemicals over four years. Detailed cost estimates
are presented in Annex 3, Table 8.
4.23    Credit.  To realize full agricultural production potential resulting
from project investments, provision of adequate seasonal and investment
credit to project area farmers would be essential. However, the existing
credit arrangements by MAB and advance purchase arrangements by TIC and
cooperatives for farmers growing government-controlled crops are reasonable
(paras 3.19-3.21), hence the proposed project contains no credit component.
Technical Assistance and Training
4.24    Consulting Services.  During the four year Pilot Phase, consultancy
services were provided to ID in all aspects of groundwater exploration and
pilot development. In addition to carrying out surveys and feasibility
studies, the consultants trained ID personnel in drilling, logistic support,
hydrogeology, irrigation design and agro-economic data collection, as well as
conducting a number of training courses and preparing manuals. As a result,
a Drilling Division and a Civil Engineering Division were established and now
are capable of carrying out most proposed project work on their own.
4.25    Certain specific assistance, however, would still be required in
implementing the project, namely, tender document preparation and bid evalua-
tion, drilling and in particular water management/irrigation agronomy. For
this purpose, the project would provide 50.0 manmonths of engineering con-
sultancy services including 36 manmonths of an irrigation agronomy expert.
4.26    It is envisaged that all the required consultants would be provided
from an internationally reputable consulting firm. Draft terms of reference
for the consultants are presented in Annex 4. The total cost of this techni-
cal assistance is estimated at US$0.6 M and its details are shown in Annex 3,
Table 9. Average manmonth cost would be about US$12,000 including billing
rates, travel, per diem and other reimbursable expenses. Assurances have
been obtained from GOB that the above consultants would be employed-by ID on
terms and conditions agreeable to IDA.
4.27    Training.  Training given during the Pilot Phase included two study
tours (Indonesia) and training programs in the consultant's home office (UK).
The project would provide a toal of 45 manmonths of overseas training for ID
staff in hydrogeology, groundwater engineering and irrigation agronomy (water
management), and a total of 36 manmonths for AC's SMSs in wheat, cotton and
beans. These fields have been carefully chosen as those still needing
strengthening. Study tours to neighboring countries such as India and
Bangladesh are also included in the project for observing groundwater irriga-
tion projects. The total cost of training is estimated at US$0.3 M. The
tentative training schedule is shown in Annex 2, Figure 1, and its budget
in Annex 3, Table 9.



-18-
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.28    Construction and Groundwater Monitoring.  ID Project Director's
office would monitor project implementation and submit quarterly progress
reports to the Project Steering Committee (para 6.04), which in turn would
forward these reports to IDA. The Drilling Division would collect lithologi-
cal and pump test data as production wells are constructed. A network of
observation wells has been established for water level monitoring under the
Pilot Phase. These would be expanded and strengthened by the Drilling Divi-
sion under the project. Provision is made for fitting an hour meter in the
electrical connection circuit to each well; monthly hours of operation would
therefore be available which, together with measurement of well discharge,
would provide estimates of monthly abstraction at each water point. Water
quality as well as pump and all performance would also be monitored by the
Drilling Division; and any deterioration of well yields and water quality
would be detected by monitoring the actual pump discharge and drawdown in the
well at six-monthly intervals.
4.29    Project Impact Evaluation.  Evaluation of project impact would be
carried out under the supervision of the Project Impact Evaluation Committee
I/ by a team appointed by the Committee. This team would consist of staff
from AC, the Project Appraisal and Progress Reporting Department and the
Institute of Economics. The team would conduct a benchmark survey at the
start of project implementation (report due December 1984) and a mid-term
review (report due April 1987), and would prepare a final report assessing
the impact of the project (due April 1989). About US$43,000 (Annex 3, Table
10) would be provided for this purpose. Suggested terms of reference and
format for reporting for project monitoring and evaluation have been agreed
with GOB.
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
5.01     The project is estimated to cost US$22.0 M including import duties
and taxes of US$3.1 M and price contingencies of US$2.4 M. Foreign exchange
costs would be about US$10.2 M or about 46% of total costs. Costs were based
on prices prevailing in mid-1982 and were updated to mid-1983 price levels.
Engineering and administration costs are based on proposed organizational
arrangements and operational expenses. A physical contingency was estimated
for each cost item and would amount to 12.7% of civil works and 2.9% of
1/ Chaired by the Director General of the Planning and Statistics Department
of MAF and consists of representatives from various agencies including,
as a key organization, the Project Appraisal and Progress Reporting
Department of the Ministry of Planning and Finance.



-19-
equipment. These contingencies are relatively small since cost estimates are
based on actual experience gained during the Pilot Phase. Price contingen-
cies for foreign currency costs were estimated on the basis of annual infla-
tion rates of 7.5% in 1984, 7% in 1985, and 6% in 1986, 1987 and 1988. Price
contingencies for local currency costs were estimated at an annual inflation
of 4% throughout the project implementation period. Since about 70% of the
equipment and materials are purchased during the first year and half of the
project, total price contingencies would be only about 13% of base costs.
Cost estimates are detailed in Annex 3, Tables 1 through 11, and are sum-
marized below:
PROJECT COST SUMMARY /a
% of
% of    Total
(Kyats Million        US$ Million)      Foreign  Base
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange Costs
Project Components:
Well Construction       10.1   13.6   23.7   1.3    1.7    3.0    57.5   16.4
Water Distribution
and Drainage          34.4   12.4   46.8   4.4    1.6    6.0    26.5   32.4
Engineering and
Administration         4.9    -       4.9   0.6      -      0.6       -     3.4
Power and Supply
Systems               19.9   20.2   40.1   2.6    2.6    5.2    50.4   27.8
O&M of Constructed
Works                  3.7    2.4    6.1   0.5    0.3    0.8    38.8    4.2
Agricultural Extension
and Applied Research  2.3    1.2    3.5   0.3    0.2    0.5    33.1    2.4
Fertilizer and
Chemicals              -     11.9   11.9    -       1.5    1.5   100.0    8.2
Technical Assistance,
Training and Project   0.7    6.8    7.5   0.1    0.9    1.0    90.1    5.1
Evaluation
Total Baseline Costs   76.0   68.5  144.5   9.8    8.8   18.6    47.4  100.0
Physical Contingencies  6.4    1.6    8.0   0.8    0.2    1.0    20.2    5.5
Price Contingencies      9.5    9.4   18.9   1.2    1.2    2.4    49.7   13.0
Total Project Costs    91.9   79.5  171.4  11.8   10.2   22.0    46.3  118.5
/a Includes duties and taxes amounting to US$3.1 M. The total costs net
of duties and taxes amount to US$18.9 M.



-20-
Financing
5.02    The proposed IDA credit of US$14.0 M would finance about 74% of total
project costs, including the full foreign exchange cost of US$10.2 M and
about 44% (US$3.8 M equivalent) of local costs, net of duties and taxes.
Procurement
5.03    Civil Works.  The civil works component of the project would include
(a) drilling and well construction (US$0.8 M); (b) power supply systems
construction (US$0.4 M); and (c) irrigation systems construction (US$4.7 M).
There is no private construction industry in Burma. Items (a) and (b) would
be too small to attract foreign contractors. Item (c) would involve simple
structures and small canals over a scattered area and would not be suitable
for ICB. Consequently, all civil works would be carried out by ID, which has
demonstrated its capability in implementing such works under force account
during the Pilot Phase as well as in other projects.
5.04    Materials, Equipment and Vehicles.  Materials, equipment and
vehicles, estimated to cost US$9.7 M, including physical and price contingen-
cies but net of taxes and duties, would be financed by IDA and would be
procured through ICB in accordance with IDA guidelines. However, individual
items, costing less than US$30,000 and for which international tendering
would not be practical, would be procured after comparing prices from not
less than three independent suppliers in accordance with GOB procurement
procedures acceptable to IDA. Such purchases, however, would be limited to
an aggregate amount of US$0.8 M. A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing
customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in
bid evaluation under ICB procurement. Bidding documents for all procurements
estimated to cost US$100,000 or more and all proposed awards related thereto
would be submitted to IDA for prior review. An estimated equipment procure-
ment schedule is presented in Annex 2, Table 5.
Disbursements
5.05    Disbursements from the IDA credit would be made for:
(a) 50% of local expenditures for civil works, including construction
of water points, irrigation and drainage systems, power supply
systems, service roads, and agricultural extension and
research facilities;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
materials and equipment, vehicles and spare parts;
(c) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manu-
factured materials and equipment;
(d) 75% of other local expenditures for locally procured
materials and equipment; and



-21-
(e) 100% of expenditures for consulting services and overseas
training of staff.
Disbursements for item (a) would be made against statements of expenditure,
documentation for which would be retained by the implementing agencies for
review by IDA upon request and audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA. All other disbursements would be made against full
documentation. The ID would be responsible for preparation, review and
submission of all applications for disbursement to IDA. The proposed alloca-
tion of the IDA Credit is shown in Annex 3, Table 12. The estimated credit
disbursement schedule is shown as Annex 3, Table 13.  It is expected that
disbursements would be completed by mid-1989. Experience on past
IDA-financed irrigation projects in Burma shows that disbursements lag expen-
diture projections by about one year.
Accounts and Audit
5.06    All GOB agencies maintain accounts according to procedures and forms
established by the Ministry of Planning and Finance. The Central Audit and
Inspection Office, acting on behalf of the Council of People's Inspectors, is
responsible for auditing GOB agency accounts and is acceptable to IDA as an
independent auditor for this project. Assurances would be obtained from GOB
that:
(a) separate accounts for each project component would be main-
tained by respective implementing agencies and collated by
the Project Steering Committee (PSC) (para 6.04);
(b) these accounts would be audited annually in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied by the Director
General, Central Accounts Office, acting on behalf of the
Council of the People's Inspectors of GOB; and
(c) PSC would send to IDA copies of the summary of the unaudited
annual project accounts within six months after the end of
the fiscal year, followed by certified copies of the audited
accounts and auditor's report within nine months of the end
of each fiscal year.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Management
6.01    The Irrigation Department (ID) would be responsible for overall
project implementation. Divisions within ID and their respective respon-
sibilities are listed below:



-22-
Division                         Responsibility
(a)  Drilling Division              Drilling, hydrogeological
investigations, well construction
and testing.
(b)  Civil Engineering              Design and construction of irri-
Division                       gation and drainage systems and
on-farm development.
(c)  Mechanical Engineering         Mechanical engineering and
Division                       workshops.
Annex 2, Figures 3 and 4 show how ID would be organized during the construc-
tion and operational phases. A Project Director (Superintending Engineer)
would be appointed to direct the construction and would be stationed in
Monywa. The Drilling and Civil Engineering Divisions have already been
established under the Pilot Phase. The Mechanical Engineering Division would
be established by end-1983. Appointment of the Project Director and the
Executive Engineers for the above three Divisions would be conditions for
credit effectiveness.
6.02    The Agriculture Corporation (AC) would be responsible for (a)
procurement and distribution of fertilizers and agricultural chemicals; (b)
construction of six production camps; (c) adaptive research in the project
area (para 4.20), and (d) strengthening of agricultural extension (para
4.21).
6.03    The Electric Power Corporation (EPC) would construct the power dis-
tribution system as a subcontractor to ID, who would procure necessary
materials according to EPC specifications. EPC would also operate and main-
tain a part of the power distribution system and provide services for major
repair (para 6.07).
6.04    Project Management and Coordination.  To coordinate work of the
various implementing agencies, a Project Steering Committee (PSC) would be
formed in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF). PSC would include
the Deputy Minister of MAF as Chairman, Director General of Foreign Economic
Relations Department, Ministry of Planning and Finance, Director General of
Planning and Statistics Department, MAF, and Director General of Settlement
and Land Record, as well as heads of ID, AC and EPC. The Project Director
would serve as member-secretary of PSC. The PSC would be responsible for:
(a) administering, reviewing and approving annual work programs and budgets;
(b) reviewing quarterly progress reports; (c) establishing interministerial
project-related policies and solving interministerial problems; and (d)
conferring with IDA on all project-related policy matters.
Implementation Schedule
6.05    The proposed implementation schedule is shown in Annex 2, Figure 1.
It is expected that the project would be completed in five years after com-
mencement in about October 1983. Assurances have been obtained from GOB that



-23-
at least 30 well locations and corresponding command areas will be identified
and surveyed by June 30, 1984 to enable ID to commence drilling and construc-
tion of wells around October 1984. Under the auspices of the Phase II Exten-
sion of the UNDP/IBRD Groundwater Exploration and Pilot Development, ID and
AC have already selected 48 sites and completed detailed survey of 24. Other
pre-project activities would also be carried out before October 1983 includ-
ing preparation of tender documents.
6.06    During the first year of the project, ID will build-up its estab-
lishment to full strength, construct all infrastructure (housing, office,
workshop and stores) to support the construction and later operation and
maintenance phases of the project. EPC would finalize details of the design
of the power supply system during the first year. Major construction works
would start in the second year of the project. The project would assume
responsibility for O&M of the 25 irrigation systems constructed and commis-
sioned with diesel engine prime movers during the Pilot Phase. The first new
tubewell systems would be commissioned before the dry season of the third
year and all systems would be operational by the beginning of the dry season
of the fifth year.
Operation and Maintenance
6.07    After completion of the project, responsibility for O&M of tubewells
and irrigation facilities would be transferred to the Maintenance Division
based in Ye-U township. A civil works maintenance subdivision would be
established in each of the Monywa, Budalin, and Chaung-U townships. One
subdivision for mechanical maintenance would be established in Monywa, which
would look after the whole project area (Annex 2, Figure 4). EPC would
operate and maintain the 33 kV substation in Monywa, 33 kV lines and the four
33/11 kV substations. EPC would also train pump operators/ linemen, who
would be employed by ID to maintain 11 kV lines, 11/0.4 transformers and LT
lines. If major repair is required for these facilities, EPC would provide
it at cost. ID would own the entire new distribution assets. AC would
retain its intensive program for agricultural extension program for a
nine-year period. Afterwards, it is expected that reversion to normal levels
of staffing and extension operations could be achieved without undermining
progress made.
6.08    Within individual irrigation systems (50 to 200 ac commanded by a
single water source), water user groups would be established with farmers
having land in the command area. Assurances have been obtained from GOB that
a water user group would be established for each well constructed by the
project before commissioning the well, and that for those 25 existing wells,
water user groups would be established by March 31, 1984. Although overall
guidance on cropping patterns would continue to be given by Township Agricul-
tural Supervisory Committees, increasing responsibility would be taken by the
water user groups in making specific decisions on location and timing of
agricultural activities, timing of irrigation, distribution of irrigation
water, and designation of pump operators. Annex 2, Figure 5 presents a flow
chart for irrigation management.



-24-
6.09    Tubewell systems would be designed for a water duty of 1 cusec at
the well head for about 97 ac. Energy cost consideration demands that pumps
should not be operated during the peak demand hours of 6-10 p.m. Practical
operational considerations suggest that night irrigation should be minimized.
Thus the absolute maximum daily operation hours would be 20 while about 14
hours/day would be preferred. Should the 14 hours/day water supply prove
inadequate in the future as irrigation intensity and water demand increase, a
small night storage reservoir of earth construction could be provided to
avoid night irrigation. The canal and channel designs are such that they
could be supercharged to carry up to 50% additional flow without design
modification.
6.10    Test results during the pilot phase demonstrate that the water dis-
tribution system with a lined main canal and unlined field channels and with
1 cusec flows in the unlined conveyance will deliver water to the half acre
turnout with overall conveyance efficiency of 0.9 if the earth channel sec-
tions are properly constructed and maintained and no spillage occurs. Over-
all field efficiency is assumed to be 0.66. However, such high efficiency
with unlined field channels will demand high levels of maintenance and care-
ful distribution practices by farmers. The project provides the services of
a full-time resident irrigation agronomist for three years to ensure this
efficient water management. The tubewell irrigation systems would be
operated on appropriate rotational schedules which would be devised on the
basis of cropping patterns for each command and constraints such as avoidance
of peak power demand hours. The Irrigation Agronomist would assist ID and AC
in determining the most appropriate rotational water supply pattern for the
systems.
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production
7.01    Agricultural Development with the Project.  With commissioning of
about 106 new wells, it is expected that potential for irrigating additional
17,850 ac (net) of land would be created at full development. In addition,
by electrifying 25 existing wells, agricultural production in their 2,150 ac
command area would be substantially increased. Thus, the project would affect
a total of 20,000 ac at full development. In this area, the major change
would be a shift from unirrigated sesame, groundnuts, chickpea and fodder
sorghum to irrigated, improved varieties of cotton, wheat and mung beans.
These three crops are best suited for inclusion in irrigated cropping pat-
terns on agronomic, economic, financial and social grounds. A 150% cropping
intensity in the irrigated area is recommended compared to 115% at present
and an expected 123% without the project. Although higher cropping inten-
sities in a smaller command area would be feasible, a proposed 150% cropping
intensity would allow a larger area to be irrigated and would allow farmers
to concentrate water applications onto relatively high value crops and hence
would provide best returns on investment. It would also spread project



-25-
benefits to a larger number of farmers, and would allow inclusion of a fallow
period in rotation, offering a substantial aid to weed control. The crop
calendar in the irrigated area, together with an estimate of labor and draft
power requirement, is presented in Annex 2, Figure 2. Yields of the three
crops included in the irrigated rotation are expected to rise over a five
year period from 130 kg to 650 kg per ac for cotton, from 330 kg to 1,470 kg
for wheat and 650 kg for mung beans (a new crop).
7.02    The socio-economic survey conducted during the Pilot Phase revealed
that land holdings are normally scattered and that, on average, only about
30% of a farmer's holdings would be included in a command area, while the
rest of his cultivated area would remain rainfed. The introduction of
irrigation is expected to result in changed cropping intensities and cropping
patterns in the remaining rainfed land (70% or 46,700 ac in total). Main
changes would be as follows:
(a) as the farmers are directed (by the Township Council) to grow
planned crops in the command area, they would concentrate
efforts on rainfed land toward home-consumption crops, espe-
cially sesame, chickpea and fodder sorghum;
(b) since the commanded land would make a heavy demand on labor
during peak periods, a cropping intensity on rainfed land
in the with-project situation would be slightly lower; and
(c) approximately 10% of land would be lost to new channels,
pumpsites and service roads.
7.03    Agricultural Development without the Project.  There would be some
agricultural changes without the project in the project area due to existing
wells sunk during the Pilot Phase and recent intensification of agricultural
extension activities and availability of inputs. However, rainfed farming
would continue to predominate and erratic rainfall patterns would cause low
crop maturation intensities. In absence of assured irrigation, farmers would
be less disposed to investment in improved seed, fertilizers and chemicals.
7.04    Overall Agricultural Impact.  Annex 2, Table 6 shows the present and
projected cropping patterns, yields and production in (a) areas commanded by
106 new wells (17,850 ac); (b) areas commanded by 25 improved wells (2,150
ac); and (c) the areas remaining rainfed but affected by new wells (41,640
ac). At full development (year 14), the project would yield annual incremen-
tal output of about 5,400 tons of seedcotton; 10,400, wheat; and 6,500, mung
beans.
Crop Marketing and Pricing
7.05    Cotton.  Seed cotton is procured in the project area by the Textile
Industries Corporation (TIC), which has major buying centers in Monywa.
Mobile buying centers are organized by TIC to purchase seed cotton at village
tracts. TIC aims to purchase 75 to 100% of the crop but in practice it
averages about 45% at official prices of K 7.00-K 7.50/viss (3.6 lb) for
long-staple (LS) cotton and K 4.50-K 6.50/viss for short-staple (SS) cotton.



-26-
TIC believes nearly 100% of incremental LS cotton produced with the project
would be procured by TIC. Seed cotton not purchased by TIC is either bought
by private gins (at K 5-6/viss) or is ginned in villages with lint being sold
to Monywa cotton mills.
7.06    TIC has 14 gins in Monywa which are pre-WWII vintage and in very poor
condition. Lint outturns are reported to be only 30-38%. All the lint
produced at TIC gins is sent to government factories in Palaik, Sagaing,
Meiktila (the major factory and TIC's head office), or Rangoon. Cottonseed
is either sold to farmers or pressed for oil and cake. Oil is sent to
Mahlaing for refinery by FIC, while the oil cake is sold to AFPTC for export.
7.07    TIC's total requirement of LS cotton in 1985 is estimated to be
74,550 bales (34,800 tons of seedcotton).  Incremental LS cotton production
with the project, about 5,400 tons p.a. at full development, would augment
TIC's total procurement by 16%, thereby reducing imports by an equivalent
amount. Currently, cotton imports (yarn, thread and fiber) account for about
7% of non-capital imports. Between 1974-76, the procurement price of LS seed
cotton was increased twice. At K 7.00/viss, the current TIC price is double
the 1974 price; nevertheless it is still 37% below the corresponding farmgate
price based on international prices.
7.08    Wheat.  Wheat is purchased by township cooperatives at K 60/basket
(72 lb), all of which is sold in turn at K 63.50 to the Foodstuffs Industry
Corporation (FIC). Currently, FIC transports wheat to Rangoon for milling;
however, FIC is expanding wheat storage facilities in the project area and is
planning to build a flour mill in Sagaing (60 mi from Monywa) with a capacity
of 70 tons of grain per day. This new mill is expected to become operational
by 1985/86, when the project's incremental production starts coming into
market. There are also a number of privately owned flour mills in the
project area. The open market price for wheat has been fluctuating widely
peaking at K 150 a basket in 1981 but falling after the 1982 harvest to K 60.
A financial farmgate price of wheat has been assumed at K 68 a basket at 1983
price levels.
7.09    Mung Bean.  Mung bean (Pedishwewa) is a relatively new crop in the
project area, introduced and promoted recently by AC because of export poten-
tial. It is expected that about 80% of the mung bean produced through the
project would be purchased by AFPTC at K 40/basket (72 lb) at its purchasing
center in Monywa. After bagging in the center, beans are transported by road
to Rangoon for export. At K 40/basket, the procurement price is less than
half the farmgate price derived from international market price. Considering
the prices of other pulses such as Kalape (chickpea sold to cooperatives at
K 50/basket and at K 56 to military), an increased procurement price of mung
beans would be desirable to boost farmer incentive.



-27-
VIII.  FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSES
Introduction
8.01    The following assumptions have been made in the financial and
economic analyses of the project:
(a)  Project Life and Phasing.  The project life would be 20 years
including a five-year construction period. Project benefits
would start in year 3 (1985/86).
(b)  Prices.  All prices are expressed at mid-1983 constant price
levels using an official exchange rate of K 7.8 = US$1.00.
Financial prices are assumed to remain unchanged in real terms.
All prices were computed at "farmgate." For economic analysis,
year-specific prices were used with appropriate adjustments for
freight, handling, processing, and quality differences. Local
costs and locally valued benefits were expressed in border kyats
through application of a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.8
and a transport conversion factor of 1.05. Shadow wage rates of
farm labor during both slack and peaks period were estimated to
approximate respective financial wages. Economic wages were
derived by adjusting weighted shadow wage rates with the SCF.
Annex 5, Table 1 presents prices used for financial and economic
analyses and Annex 5, Tables 2a to 2f show the derivations of
economic prices and cost recovery margins.
(c)  Opportunity Cost of Capital (OCC).  OCC for Burma has been
assumed at 10% p.a.
(d)  Crop Benefits and Production Costs.  Incremental crop benefits
were based on most probable yields attainable with project
investments and with assumed build--up rates (Annex 5, Table 4).
Crop budgets were prepared for the main crops considered for
cultivation under with and without-project conditions. Annex 5,
Tables 5 and 6 show the crop budgets of those in financial and
economic prices.
(e)  Capital Costs.  For economic analyses, capital costs, were
expressed on border bases with taxes and duties excluded.
Details of taxes and duties and physical contingencies are shown
in Annex 3, Table 1. Whereas the costs of drilling rigs (pur-
chased during the Pilot Phase) were considered fully depreciated
in financial analyses, economic analyses took into account of
resale value of the two rigs.
(f)  Other Project Effects.  The following minor or non-quantifiable
effects have been omitted from the economic analyses:
(i) incremental employment and value added generated from
commodity processing, handling, transport, and marketing;



-28-
(ii)  demonstration effects to farmers outside the project area;
and
(iii)  improved sanitation, reduced health care costs and improved
labor productivity (although the project would provide water
for irrigation, part of the water would also be used for
domestic purposes).
Selection of Power Source
8.03    An economic analysis was conducted for choosing the appropriate power
source for irrigation pumping. It was evident from experience gained during
the Pilot Phase that diesel supply was erratic and unreliable. Accordingly,
the comparison was made between installing a new electricity distribution
system with electric pump motors, and a set of irrigation pumps driven by
gas-fired motors with diesel starting fuel. Economic cost comparison of the
two alternatives is shown in Annex 5, Table 3. At all discount rates up to
about 20%, the electricity option is preferable to the gas option, as long as
pumps are not operated during power system peak period of the day.
Farm Income
8.04    Introduction of irrigation would lead to changed cropping intensities
and cropping patterns on effected rainfed land (para 7.02) and implications
of these adjustments have been considered in farm budget analyses. Farm
budgets (full development) have been estimated for the following four cases:
(a) Farms affected by the new wells:
-    5 acres:  34% of existing farms
-   10 acres:  the average size in the project area and accounts
for 30% of existing farms
-   20 acres:  the average size of large farms (over 10 ac) which
represent 36% of all farms and occupy 71% of the
total cultivated area.
(b) Farms affected by improved wells:
-   10 acres:  the average size in the project area.
8.05    Farm budgets of the above four cases are shown in Annex 5, Tables 7a
and 7b, and are summarized in Table 8.1 below:



-29-
Table 8.1: Summary of Farm Budget Analyses
Net Return   Return per   Return per
from Crops   Acre Owned        Manday
New Wells:
5 ac:  Without Project (K)             1,806            361         29.2
With Project (K)               5,202          1,040         46.8
Increase (%)                     188            188            60
10 ac: Without Project (K)             3,343            334         27.6
With Project (K)               8,773            877          45.8
Increase (%)                     162            163            66
20 ac: Without Project (K)             6,483            324         29.0
With Project (K)              13,857            693         43.8
Increase (x)                     114            114            51
Improved Wells:
10 ac: Without Project (Kyats)         5,144            514         32.2
With Project (Kyats)           8,773            877         45.8
Increase (%)                      71             71            42
Based on the above analyses, it is evident that the financial incentive for
farmers to participate in the project is substantial.
Cost Recovery
8.06    EPC Cost Recovery.  In line with the administrative arrangements
outlined in para 6.03, EPC would incur (a) incremental operating and trans-
mission costs to supply electricity to the project-related distribution
network, and (b) operating and maintenance costs of this network. To recover
incremental costs of electricity supply, EPC would charge ID a tariff. In
the absence of an appropriate tariff for agricultural consumers, EPC would,
for the time being, charge ID the existing industrial tariff appropriate for
the voltage and pattern of consumption. The industrial tariff would be
applied to supply at the 33 kV bus of the project-built substation, and would
be increased significantly above present levels in accordance with covenants
under the Burma Power Project (IDA Cr. 1245-BA).  In the event ID and EPC
should negotiate and agree to establish a new tariff for agricultural con-
sumers, GOB would transmit the details of the new tariff to IDA for review.
Furthermore, to recover recurrent operating and maintenance costs of the
distribution network, EPC would receive an appropriate fee from ID. Assuran-
ces have been received from GOB that EPC would charge ID fees sufficient to
recover (a) cost of power supplied to tubewells included in the project and
(b) all operation and maintenance costs of the power distribution systems.
8.07    Overall Cost Recovery by GOB.  As mentioned above, EPC would recover
its incremental costs from ID. This arrangement would be necessary to



-30-
safeguard the financial integrity of EPC, which is a State Economic
Enterprise required by law to be self-sufficient in financing its operations.
On the other hand, ID is a government department and the department's cost
recovery would be a part of an overall GOB cost recovery mechanism.
8.08    Costs to GOB have been estimated in terms of present values (using
discount rate of 10%) over the 20-year project life of: (a) total capital
costs (excluding price contingencies, taxes, and duties), (b) recurrent O&M
(including energy costs), and equipment replacement expenses, and (c) sub-
sidies on incremental fertilizer inputs based on differences between interna-
tional prices and GOB-controlled prices.
8.09    GOB would recover some of its costs from increases in income from
land and irrigation water taxes. 1/ These revenues combined, however, would
recover only 6% of O&M costs, or less than 1% of the total cost (capital plus
O&M costs). The main sources of GOB cost recovery would come from indirect
agricultural taxation (procurement of controlled crops - including cotton,
wheat, and mung beans - at prices below the crop export or import values).
These amounts have been estimated as the difference between the project
border prices and GOB's procurement prices appropriately adjusted for
processing, storage and transport costs (Annex 5, Tables 2a-2f).
8.10    Table 8.2 shows the PVs of project incremental cost recovery.
Table 8.2: Present Values of Project Incremental Cost Recovery
Recovery
Costs                               Recoveries              Rate
Capital Costs                 K  88.34 M  Cotton Procurement K 45.10 M
Recurrent O&M and Replacement   21.18    Wheat                     7.63
Mung Bean             37.14
Incremental Input                 48.58    Land Taxes              0.18
Subsidies                                  Water Taxes             1.04
Total                     K 158.10 M                       K 91.09 M    58%
1/ Depending on land quality and the availability of irrigation/drainage
infrastructure, farmers in project areas currently pay land taxes ranging
from K 0.50/ac to K 12.0/ac per year. Anticipating standard tax
reassessment by the Settlement and Land Record Department, increases in
land taxes in project areas are conservatively estimated to average about
K 2/ac p.a. beginning in Year 5. In addition to land taxes, a new Water
and Irrigation Tax Law was enacted by the Pyithu Hluttaw (Peoples'
Assembly) in March 1982. Under this law, any cultivated land supplied
with water by irrigation works built and maintained by the State will be
subject to an annual tax of K 10 per ac.



-31-
8.11    The indirect agricultural taxation margin has recently been shrink-
ing, mainly due to declining international prices of agricultural com-
modities. However, the overall cost recovery index of 58% is significantly
higher than under other similar irrigation projects in Asia. 1/ Care must
also be taken to maintain enough production incentives to farmers. It is
therefore essential to maintain a balance between cost recovery and farmers'
incentive. For this purpose, an assurance has been obtained from GOB, as was
the case for other IDA financed irrigation projects in Burma, 2/
that GOB would periodically review, and if necessary, revise its (cotton,
wheat and beans) pricing system so as to ensure adequate financial incentive
to project area farmers to make Investments necessary to increase production;
and that in the event that the cost recovery index is eroded significantly
through modifications to the existing compulsory procurement system, GOB, in
consultation with IDA, will make adequate arrangements for the direct or
indirect recovery of the capital and O&M costs of the project.
Project Benefits and Justification
8.12    Overall Impact.  The project would increase agricultural production
and farm incomes through construction of tubewell irrigation in an area where
no other economical irrigation water source is readily available. About
6,000 benefitting farm families would be better protected against the risks
of weather and would receive enhanced agricultural support services. On
average, benefitting farms would have about three acres of irrigated land and
seven acres of rainfed land. For the average farm household whose farm would
be partly irrigated by new deep tubewells, annual net farm income is expected
to increase by about 160%. A further 715 farm households, which already
cultivate land irrigated by 25 tubewells constructed during the Pilot Phase,
would also benefit from the project. The reliability of irrigation water
supply would be improved as their tubewells are converted from diesel to
electric motors.  Their annual net family income would increase by about 70%.
Although introduction of irrigation would result in some reduction in
agricultural production in the remaining rainfed areas, at full development
(year 14), the total net incremental production of the project would reach
5,400 tons of seedcotton, 10,400 tons of wheat and 6,500 tons of mung beans
p.a.
8.13    Employment Effect.  The project would increase annual farm labor
requirements from about 1.2 M man-days without the project to 1.5 M man-days
with the project. Most of the additional employment opportunities would
benefit under-employed farm family members, in particular during the dry
season when agricultural employment is low. An average farm (10 ac) is
likely to be a net hirer of labor in March, April, May, September and
1/  For instance, a recent UN study (ESCAP 1981) shows that on five typical
irrigation projects, cost recovery indices varied from 14 to 41%.
2/  Lower Burma Paddyland Development Project I (Cr.642-BA).
Lower Burma Paddyland Development Project II (Cr.835-BA).
Nyaunggyat (now renamed Kinda) Dam Multipurpose Project (Cr.1031-BA).



-32-
November with the project (Annex 2, Figure 2). Since 26% of rural households
in the project area have no land and a further 25% have holdings less than
five ac (and will therefore have a labor surplus at peak periods), there is
a large pool of labor available for such incremental employment.
8.14    Direct Foreign Exchange Effect.  Based on projected world market
prices, incremental tradeable goods produced with the project at full
development would represent a gross foreign exchange value of about US$10.3 M
equivalent p.a. Allowing for increased foreign exchange expenditures
(US$1.6 M) on fertilizers, chemicals, as well as fuel, spares and replace-
ments, the net annual foreign exchange impact due to the project would amount
to US$8.7 M equivalent.
8.15    Benefits to the Economy.  The Burmese economy would realize an over-
all economic rate of return (ERR) of about 22% from total project invest-
ments, inclusive of physical contingencies. At an OCC of 10%, the net
present value of the project would be about K 112.4 M (US$14.4 M). The
economic real flow of the project is presented in Annex 5, Table 8.
Project Risks and Sensitivity Tests
8.16    Project Risks.  There are no serious risks associated with the
project since it is based on proven approaches developed during the four year
Pilot Phase. Several aspects of the project, however, deserve attention:
(a) Electric Power Supply. Use of electricity for tubewells with
the proposed magnitude is new to Burma. For this reason, provi-
sion has been made for consultancy services under a 15 month
extension of the Pilot Phase to carry out surveys for detailed
design, and tender document preparation for the electrification
(para 6.05). In addition, the project provides consultancy
services to assist ID in initially installing and commissioning
electric motors. During the operational stage, power fluctua-
tions may occur. To minimize such fluctuations and also to
prevent damages which may be caused by it, the project would
provide an entirely separate electricity supply system for tube-
wells and provide each well with a capacitor.
(b) Cropped Area, Yields and Production. Estimates for these items
under the with-project situation used for economic analyses are
higher than those currently being obtained with existing pilot
wells. However, the lower production during the Pilot Phase
resulted mainly from an unreliable power source (diesel), lack
of efficient water management due to inexperience of farmers
and COB officials as well as under-designed irrigation systems
(average about 60 ac command area per 1.0 cusec well). To miti-
gate these problems, the project would:  (i) use electricity
instead of diesel as a power source; (ii) include the three-year
service of a resident water management specialist (irrigation
agronomist); and (iii) construct irrigation systems on the basis
of 97 ac/cusec command area. There are some risks that
97 ac/cusec may not be achieved due to lower irrigation effi-



-33-
ciency. Sensitivity tests show, however, that the area commanded
by a 1.0 cusec well could fall to 46 ac before the project
become economically not viable. Furthermore, the 97 ac/cusec is
to be attained at full development (nine years after construction,
a conservative build-up assumption). The estimate was also made
on the base of a carefully prepared water balance study (Annex 2,
Table 2) taking into consideration water stress during December-
January, which has been accounted for in yields. With these
measures and with an intensive agricultural extension and applied
research programs included in the project, project risks would
be minimized, and project farmers should realize expected
production levels at full development.
8.17    Sensitivity Tests.  Switching values 1/ were calculated to assess the
impact of variations in costs and benefit streams on the project. The
results are presented in Annex 5, Table 9. Assuming an OCC of 10% p.a.,
costs would have to rise by 48%, or benefits fall by 33%, before the project
became economically not viable. The economic viability is more sensitive to
agricultural benefits than construction costs. Those results clearly suggest
that the project is economically robust.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01    Assurances have been obtained from GOB that:
(a) consultants would be employed by ID on terms and
conditions agreeable to IDA (para 4.26);
(b) with regard to accounts and audits:
(i) separate accounts for each project component would be
maintained by respective implementing agencies and
collated by the Project Steering Committee (PSC)
(para 5.06);
(ii) these accounts would be audited annually in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied by
the Director General, Central Accounts Office, acting
on behalf of the Council of the People's Inspectors of
GOB (para 5.06);
1/ Switching value is the percentage change in the specified stream (benefit
or cost) that reduces the NPV of the project to zero at a specified
discount rate (10% p.a. is assumed for Burma but SVs were also
calculated at 8% and 12% p.a.).



-34-
(iii) PSC would send to IDA copies of the summary of the
unaudited annual project accounts within six months
after the end of the fiscal year, followed by certified
copies of the audited accounts and auditor's report
within nine months of the end of each fiscal year (para
5.06);
(c) at least 30 well locations and corresponding command areas
will be identified and surveyed by June 30, 1984 (para 6.05);
(d) with regard to water user groups:
(i) a water user group will be established for each well
constructed by the project before commissioning the
well (para 6.08);
(ii) for those 25 existing wells, water user groups will be
established by March 31, 1984 (para 6.08);
(e) regarding the EPC cost recovery, EPC would charge ID fees
sufficient to cover:
(i) cost of power supplied to tubewells included in the
project (para 8.06); and
(ii) all operation and maintenance costs of the power distri-
bution system (para 8.06).
(f) with regard to GOB's overall cost recovery:
(i) GOB will periodically review, and if necessary, revise
its (cotton, wheat, and mung beans) pricing system so as
to ensure adequate financial incentive to project area
farmers to make investments necessary to increase pro-
duction (para 8.11); and
(ii) in the event that the cost recovery index is eroded signi-
ficantly through modifications to the existing compulsory
procurement system, GOB, in consultation with IDA, will
make adequate arrangements for the direct or indirect
recovery of the capital and O&M costs of the project
(para 8.11).
9.02    A condition for credit effectiveness would be the appointment of the
Project Director and the three Executive Engineers to head Drilling, Civil
Engineering and Mechanical Engineering Divisions (para 6.01).
9.03    With the above assurances and condition, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of US$14.0 M on standard IDA terms. The borrower
would be the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma.



-35-                AIN  
ANNCE 1
Page 1 of 3
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Site Selection Criteria and Procedures
Introduction
1.      The purpose of site selection of tubewell command areas is to select
the most suitable areas, out of the Project Area, for groundwater irrigation
based on appropriate physical, agricultural and institutional factors.
Physical Factors
2.      For a site to be suitable, the following questions must be answered
positively:
-   Can a suitably yielding well (1.0-2.0 cusecs) be installed in
the proposed command area?
-   is the watertable depth in the right range (20 ft-100 ft)?
-   Is the actual well site in physical command of a large enough
irrigation area (at least 70 acres per cusec 1/)?
Is the area contiguous and generally level with no obstacles
to irrigation channels?
Is the command area free from annual flooding?
Is the command area outside existing or planned irrigation
schemes?
-   Is the area easily accessible?
If the answer to the questions is affirmative, the command area can be fur-
ther considered for agricultural and institutional evaluation. However, one
further physical factor of well spacing must be considered last of all; the
spacing between wells should not be closer than 4,000 ft for 1 cusec wells,
and 5,500 ft for 2 cusec wells.
1/ Considered to be the minimum acceptable. It is expected that on average
1 cusec would command about 100 ac. at full development.



-36-
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
Agricultural Factors
3.      The agricultural questions, which must be positively answered in the
site selection process, include:
-   Does the command area fall within acceptable categories as a
result of the soil surveys?
-   Is the soil sufficiently fine textured and well drained to
allow efficient use of irrigation water (not too sandy)?
-   Is the expected well water quality acceptable for the crops
to be grown on the soils of the area?
-   Do the farmers in the area have any experience of small-
scale irrigation (maung-dets, local pumps)?
Institutional Factors
4.      The following institutional questions must also be positively
answered:
-   Are the farmers aware of the benefits that would flow to  them
through the use of reliable irrigation supplies?
-   Are they willing to cooperate in the use of the well water?
-   Are they willing to assist in the maintenance of the well's
distribution system?
Are the farmers willing to form a water user group?
Selection Process
5.      It is proposed that the selection process is implemented in four
stages:
(a) The Irrigation Department, on hydrogeological grounds, define
areas within which a certain number of wells of stated capacities
can be sited. (This stage has largely been completed during the
Pilot Phase).
(b) The Township/Village Councils within these sub-areas suggest
tubewell command areas, chosen according to Irrigation Department
and Agriculture Corporation guidelines.



-37-
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
(c) The Irrigation Department and Agriculture Corporation staff visit
the suggested sites and check that they satisfy the technical
criteria. Analysis of their technical characteristics will be
carried out to arrive at a numerical rating. Best rated sites
will be approved.
(d) At all approved sites, meetings will be held to explain the
purpose of the Project and to obtain the farmers' agreement to
cooperate in the use and maintenance of the well. Once this
agreement is obtained, the site can be confirmed.



-38-
ANNEX 2
Table 1
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION ROJECT I
Distribution of Farm Sizes in the Project Area Townships
Percentage
Percentage    of
Number   Percentage                    of        Rural
of          of          Total       Total     House-
Farms       Farms         Area       Area      holds
(ac)
No Land                        -           -             0           0         26
Less than 2.00               5,520         14          6,382         2         10
2.00 to 3.99                 4,558         12         13,141         3          9
4.00 to 4.99                 2,987          8         13,271         3          6
5.00 to 5.99                 2,789          7         15,121         4          5
6.00 to 6.99                 2,123          5         13,587         3          4
7.00 to 7.99                 2,020          5         15,064         4          4
8.00 to 8.99                 2,057          5         14,532         4          4
9.00 to 9.99                 2,789          7         26,799         7          5
Over 10 Acres               13,860         36        283,582        71         26
Total              38,703        100        401,480       100        100



BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Water Balance - 1 Cusec Water Point Serving 100 Acres (Net)
Apr   May   June  July  Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec   Jan   Feb   Mar   Total
Effective Rainfall (in.)                                                -    2.2   2.4   0.6   3.1   3.0   1.2   0.9    -           -      -      -    14.4
Maximum Water Availability at Well
- 14 h/d (ac in. in month)                                          415   429   415   429   429   415   429   415   429   429   387   429               -
- 20 h/d (ac in. in month)                                           593   613   593   613   613   593   613   593   613   613   553   613              -
Irrigation Requirement at Plant (Penman Estimate)
(a) Cotton (SRTI), Planted Sept. 15
- 120 Days on 50 ac (ac in.)                                    -      -     -      -      -     -      85   155   185   130    -         -      555
(b) Pedishwewa, Planted June 1
- 90 Days on 50 ac (ac in.)                                     -      -     45   265    40    -        -      -      -      -     -      -      350
(c) Wheat (Yezin 2), Planted Nov. 15
- 105 Days on 50 ac (ac in.)                                                       -       -    -       _      70   130   220   160    -         580
Total at Plants (ac in.)                                      -      -     45   265    40    -        85   225   315   350   160    _    1485
Water Requirement at Well - Total Efficiency 0.59 (ac in.)              -     -      76   449    68    -    144   381   534   593   271    -    2516
Water Pumped at Well - Maximum 14 h/d (ac in.)                          -     -      76   429    68    -    144   415   429   429   271    -    2261
(a)  Deficiency at Well (ac in.)                                     -      -       0   -20      0    -        0  + 34  -105  -164        0    -      255
(b)  Deficiency at Plant (in.)                                       -      -       0   0.2      0    -        0  +0.2  -0.6  -1.0        0    -
(c)  % Deficit at Plant                                              -      -       0   - 4      0    -        0  +  8  - 19  - 28        0    -       -
Water Pumped at Well - Maximum 20 h/d (ac in.)                          -      -     76   449    68    -    144   381   534   593   271    -    2516
(a) Deficiency at Well (ac in.)                                      -      -       0      0     0    -        0     0      0      0      0    -         0
At peak pump in January, 19 hours pumping per day would be required to meet the Penman
requirement at the Plant with the assumed overall irrigation efficiency (0.59).
See para 8.1'(bi) for explanation of water stress during December-January.
I- tm
mDX
M 



ANNEX 2
40                           Table 3
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Optimum Economic Well Configurations, Q = 1 cusec
Water table depth                          30 ft   30-45 ft   45-60 ft   60-80 ft
Total drilled depth                 (ft)  127         152          187         217
Total cased depth                   (ft)  122         147         182          212
Upper well casing, 10 in. MS        (ft)   59          59          79          119
Upper well screen, 10 in. GRP    (ft)   10             20           20          -
Lower well screen, 6 in. GRP         (ft)   30         40           50          60
Lower well casing, 6 in. GRP        (ft)   20          25           30          30
Design pumping head                  (ft)   48         64          79          103
Initial drawdown                    (ft)  10.6       11.1         12.0         15.4
Optimum Economic Well Configuration, Q   2 cusec
Water table depth                        30 ft  30-45 ft  45-60 ft  60-80 ft  80-100 ft
Total drilled depth                 (ft)  182    232          242        272         344
Total cased depth                   (ft)  177    227          237        267         340
Upper well casing, 12 in. MS        (ft)   59       69         79        119         150
Upper well screen, 12 in. GRP    (ft)   10          20         20         -           -
Lower well screen 8 in, GRP          (ft)   40      40         40         50          60
Lower well casing, 8 in. GRP        (ft)   10       20         20         20          30
Lower well screen, 6 in. GRP        (ft)   30       50         50         50          60
Lower well casing, 6 in. GRP        (ft)   25       25         25         25          35
Design pumping head                 (ft)   53       68         84        105         135
Initial drawdown                    (ft)  15.8   15.9         16.9       17.9         25



-41-                         ANNEX 2
Table 4
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Recommended Numbers of Pump in Various Duty Ranges
Discharge       Theoretical Design Head         Motor Rating    Number
(ft)                      (KW)
1                      48                        7.5           11
1                     64                       ( 7.5            9
(
(10              8
2                      53                       15              5
2                      68                      (15              5
(
(20              5
2                      84                      (20              9
(
(25              9
2                     105                      (25              18
(
(30              7
2                     125                      (30             10
(
(35             10
106



FOFM NO. NOlS
(1-83)
Categorv I - Uell Construction. Irrigatien and Drainage
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EGUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                                       -0oaCT  Groundwater  Irrigation Project I
0505101.  _______
F                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4ET.O6
AN.               PROUR-    OS
9,700  Ft- Threaded                                ueo               
Seamless Ms Casing -SeE                                          
10" & 12NE
14,500  Ft - CR1' Casing                          .,,,so         -A
and Screen                        ICB    0.38    Ess -----
212 Fittings                    _____                  I-         --    
Rigs Mechanical                   NG      01
Spares                                             :Z- 
Rigs - Consumable                                                                                                                                           -77-H
Spares - Bits                     IB      00
Rigs - Consumable                 IE      01       EOC           --                                                  
Spares - Others ipr
106 Pumps and                     ICB    1. 11   FEEF                  4 4
Motors                                             ,A            ~          -
25 Motors and                     ICB    0.14   fOC...
Reduction Gears
9 Trucks  (10 Tons)               ICE    0.36   AOCO_o
8 Tractors -                      IB      07
Crawler (95 HPl)
4   ractors -IB
Wheel (60 HP)IC                           0.19   T0S C
.ND EV.L ATION CRITERIA                                                I,$IISl,C  OSA.  COCONSOIn1   rToC,VRT  TSCCOC,IFaou
_-ISACLEARANCE OF CUNS05CIEI                                            ISllI,rTC,,III TEC1 111OO
O  -WE%EO-ALI1ICATIONNOT1III                                                                                                                                               TT,CCC.TI
T~RA fIT EVACUATIn REROT AN. OE-OAENOATI-NSTCOn                          C<AC  i ECMIC  IN
O:IVAC,_E*RNCOFMRC0MUENDATICS.-o,.   I C
*Bid price including spares as appropriate.                                                                                                            ~H
0.1



FOPM NO. 1533
1   t-3)
Category  I - Well Construction, Irrigation  and Drainage  (Continued)
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EOUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
coosofo __     BURMA             __o,-  Grouudwater Irrigatiou Project 1
oe~srros O 10        OlM-ru*oOrl r-0                                                               -d    i.    -11                       '
--T.Toqous                 cSofM              -            S                       o                                                                                                   a
15 Pickups
.(4   i 4 - 3/4 Ton)              ICB    0.30   0*0
i -Low  Loader                   ICB    0.05   01_105    -=
6 - Land Levelling                                  .-                                         -
Attachments for                  ICB    0.11  I__  =
Tractor                                           . A
2 - V Ditchers                   ICB    0.030
2-Disc Harrows
(12 Ft)                          PS      0.011
2 -Disc Breakers----                                                                                                                                                       -------
(12 Ft)                          PS      0.010  Sl               Fi-        ft A   P
2-Spike Tooth
Harrows  (16 Fr)                 PS      0.004  01100                      4 u
Subsoils/ChiselPS                        001 100
EqipmntPS                                0.015   eos
o.gRh IT.A                                                                                                                                                                               --WtTgtDSIEl  -O -0  -     -O -k -wc  fSellAlhN  E  OUET       lA  eleSA leaao^cuvzT
Office                                                                                                                                                                        -.
Equipment                        PS      0.023  A -T
Workshop E.quiosent               ICB      .1
Compact ion Equipment                               A-
Tn c lud in g   Sp ares          IC B    0 .25pric e  i n  -r as  a p pro pri
XeWALI -T. ACT---                                                                                                                                                              00T000 quotatin  .. -
I-L -oL*aCreITA                                                        0--1'T -- .. 1-1 OAl. .1I1 0OU   TI) ,IUA                    05*1. -000I0S1                             CO-T,T,VC1,005
0-SMT  0e15   - 50C1TIs10 T010                                  fl0  II00C  CO0--u,AT-0  5  0  OCEISI A-50 OLIOIC T0 SOE                                                  -0-C*LCOeT00
O: -f -1SOROAIIAINTIC   .0050ENS-ATCO...Op N1
Bid price  including  spares as appropriate.                                                                                                                                                                                                       1
I   Csll for quotatioms.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               o~1



FORM NO. 1933
Category II - Power Supply
A.   33/11  KV  Transmission    Lines
-"Ta:    BURMA                                                       PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                                                   Groundwater  IrrigationProject  I
07T    -IT-        83    t 
____________________            L       US5 ) nI           s                           i              0 1
3- nT Connection to m                                                                     5
Existing y.PC  33/11  Kl' ICB                 0A 17
Substation
4 - Packaged 33/11 K'
Transformers                        ICB       0.1    "             O                 A n I
2
Condoictor (50 mm
AC   R)  &  Jointing                ICB       0 . 6W 5
p243  miles)------
Conductor   (30  amm                                                                                                                                                                            
ACSR)  &  jointing(149    ICB                 0.24~-                                                                   
mles)
Fitting:   Pin  Insu-
lators    33KV,  208                ICB       0.06                                                                                                         - '-- 
sets         3-T
Fittimg:    Tension  In-
sulators   (33  KV),  76    ICB               0.0   .....           -             -               ---                        
sets                                                    _- -                                                                                                                             - --- - - - - - - - - -
Fitting:    Pin  Insu------- 
lators   (11  KV),                  ICB       0.32            Z    -VAE
1,400 sets
sulators  (11  KV)                  ICB       0.2CAU9O --
290  sets                                                                                                                                                                                                        I I
Cement  Concrete                        a
and  Guys                           ICB       0 .2 2Ele
mu*LE,w.ATmN *050,4       lMOC'EEE~~~~~EIA*CT'OAS                                                                                   SEnIOR~~ -1 - - - --c  -        - u-,N-r
0-5,00psosTm 5 REO*UICVIN  OCMETSAIIDF OnER  O 0 EECEIATIOS NDRI OCDENS                                                   11T0  EIEE  A STEID-ITENAIOT
al  ACUD5D5TR*                                              IOSII  AROCI N  NC II DURNTT  DA1  NTSSDEIIIE I-T-TNEIIE IDN
.~uMrmcssTRsCTAI   D~AI C CERACElE PIrCTII ADS.  OCMNT                                                                         I  IIATEILETSIELD-OCUOMEITV
C-ISA CE.ERAMCEO' OOOEMENT$aNECEITERIE  A I.EUEIIIIITDTIONTO Sill                                                                          81~~-1-00IN-5 -I.
E...fla*AONEALI-EI- -I-T- .I                                                                                                            .1T'.' '.-TR ...07  STOT..
E.flEMEIlO$ RASPADT5RE00L,FIDTIONEAT                   ATII--T E   - I I.<IO, I---ODO ANITOOEIXMINCJOS Oll-N--NGAIAI,
* Bid price including spares  as appropriate.
0



FORM No. Is=
I1-1
Category I1 - Power Supply
B.  Low Tension Connection
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EOUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
COUNT"   BURMA                                                                                                                                               -T Groundwter Irrifttion  Project I
ourcA Ac5T<z              -sTreeet                                       ATO
25 KVA Transformers
(67 Mom)                          IB      05
50 [VA Transformers
(70ONos)                          ICB    0.84   RvSD-                                                      r                     
AZoivALUATloXculTeRlATUA                                                                                                                                                  -- -RNuf  -e*  -AmNA   -l -OU6T  -O -o  - -N61  -eerA    -l~  -or   -IV  -O
Fitting: Tension and
Pin Insulators                     ICE    0410      ViD
(131 sets)
Transformer   ProtectionT
(131 sets)                        1CR    0.40   TETE                          -~T-                       - - ---
Cable   and Earthing                                                                        -fL                   LL
(131 sets)                        ICB    0.08    ETS
Well Distribution
Board                              IC       .5      ....---                
*-TENLFCOINAC-w trensS*clTRT                                           TEOCET D^e=ANCT,O,  P^rcToADSDcSNss#LDLVH S. ST"O OG PROCLCUREMENTI
C_IDA CLORANOE O- DOEU4 nS ONE CRITE RIA                                . ISSUE                                                                                           - TAOT . To 00--sIN S
D-JM rEAAUALPFTCAT?S* OTlcr                                                                                                                                                     n *OTTN SOTD
MrSSErOE SONTRAOTEOR.5AALTFACETIOE DATA                                 T SUUTSTTCUw ,ATON DEPOT' ATC OEEAD AECOM4NESATlONS To 'OS                                            ASTC-NESTTTTS
A-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
-1_1AT. --.AT~ .1                                                         1-1 - COUI--AT ONs. *D-'T          41s  .-I TA                                                        cl-E ...(t T/.L ND
*Bid price  includling spares as appropriate                                                                                                                                           



FORM NO. 1935
(t'-.3
Category III - Agricultural Support, Technical Assistance and Project Impact Evaluation
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
-a-,9    BURMA                                                                                                                      ..oaT Groundwater Irrigation Project I
E,a   USM                                             SB
Tubewell Compoents &                                         Il 2 -4
Pump Units (3 sets)            ICB 0.027  toVm ED   _ _I
1 Tractor w/ Fork or
Back Scraper Blade             PS   0.015 ""'E-O  _              --4
10 4-Wheel Drive                                                                                                                                                             t
Vehicles                       ICB  0.154 "Y" 
Agric. Implements                                               t
for Research Fars              PS   0.028            ~          s       -
4 Motorcycles                  PS   0.010 59La55
59 Bicycles                    PS   0.006                                                                                                                                                                              N -  ,I
Urea (2,051 tons)              ICB   0.61                                            : at
TSP  (1,775 tons)              ICE   0.46                                      AN  Q""                ..5 8                                               I
MO(P (1.022 tons(              ICE   0L10
Chemicals                      ICB   0.60 "8-"
Off ice EquipmentPs                   o2
for EvcluationPS                     01
fEsSA.I.eADes ACD5                                                                                               USD000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
BilTs*l pri5ce5includL,IAiAngsares, asI,TPEPDTOappropriate.                                ~DOCADDDS*TA  DLDS o TEI-NTSATo*
x   Cal fSLASoUTrr quotations.SSAS S  OASSNST  SSOSTDSeASIE,DDSE                                                                                         A#fl,eaSI



ARNEX  2
Table 6
BUBMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production
Cropped Area                    Yield                     Production         Production
(ac)                      (ton/ac)                      (ton)               (ton)
Cultivated
Crops                              Area (ac)       P         V         W          P       V       W          p        V         w        W-W
I.  Areas to be Commanded by New Wells
Irrigated Crops:  Cotton                    -         -         -       8,925        -       -    0.653         -         -      5,828    5,828
Wheat                   -          -         -       8,925       -        -    1.470        -         -      13,120   13,120
Mung Beans                    -         -            8 925        -       -    0.653         -        -       5,828    5,828
Subtotal              -          -         -     26,75        -                -                              -         -
(Cropping Intensity)              -        (-)      (-)    (1.50)          -
Rainfed Crops  :  Sesame                    -       6,702    7,140        -       0.074   0.081       -         496       578      -      -  578
Chickpea                -        5,865    6,248        -      0.188   0.313        -      1,103    1,956        -     -1,956
Wheat                   -        3,352    3,570        -      0.310   0.327        -       1,039    1,167       -      -1,167
Fodder Sorghum          -        2,933    3,124        -      0.048   0.050        -         141       156      -      -  156
Cotton                  -        1 675    1 785        -      0.116   0.131        -         194      234       -      -  234
Subtotal              -                 21 86 
(Cropping Intensity)                      (1.15)   (1.23)    C - )
Total              17,850 1/ 20,528   21,867   26,795
(Overall Cropping Intensity)               -   -  (1.15)   (1.23)   (1.50)
II. Areas to Remain Rainfed but
Affected by New Wells
Rainfed Crops  :  Sesame                    -       15,635   16,650   19,029    0.074   0.081   0.081         1,157    1,349    1,541        192
Chickpea                -       13,681   14,574   17,864    0.188   0.313   0.313         2,572    4,652    5,591    1,029
Wheat                    -       7,820    8,328        -      0.310   0.327        -       2,424    2,723       -      -2,723
Fodder Sorghum          -        6,843    7,287    8,911    0.048   0.050   0.050           328       364       446        82
Cotton                  -        3,907    4,164        -      0.116   0.131        -         453      545       -      -  545
irrig. Infras.          -          -         - _                              -         -        -         -              -
Total              41,6402/ 47,886   51, 003   47,589          -        -        -        -         -         -         -
(Cropping Intensity)              -       (1.15)   (1,23)   (1.14)         -        -       -         -         -        -         -
III.Areas to be Com;anded by
improved Wells
IrrTated Crops:  Cotton                  - -           967    1,075    1,075    0.309   0.340   0.653           299       366      702       336
Wheat                   -          646       717    1,075    0.545   0.600   1.470          352       430    1,580    1,150
Mung Beans               -         -         -       1,075        -       -    0.653         -        -         702       702
Sesame                  -          967    1,075        -      0.223   0.245        -         216      263       -     -  263
Subtotal            2,150 3/  2,580    2,867    3,225                        -        -        -                       -
(Cropping Intensity)              -        (1.20)   (1.33)   (1.50)        -        -       -         -         -         -
Rainfed Crops  :  Sesame                    -        2,293    2,293    2,293    0.074   0.081   0.081           170       186       186      -
Chickpea                -        2,508    2,508    2,150    0.188   0.313   0.313            472      785       673   -  112
Fodder Sorghum          -        1,075    1,075    1,075    0.048   0.050   0.050             52       54        54       -
Irrig. Infras.          -          215       215       215       -        -        -        -         -         -
Subtotal            5,017 2/  6,091    6,091    5,733
(Cropping Intensity)              -       (1.21)   (1.21)   (1.14)         -        -       -         -         _        _         _
Total               7,167      8,671    8,958    8,958
(Overall Cropping Intensity)               -      (1.21)   (1.25)   (1.25)
IV. Total Area Affected by the Project
Irrigated Crops:  Cotton                    -          967    1,075   10,000    0.309   0.340   0.653           299       366    6,530    6,164
Wheat                   -          646       717   10,000    0.545   0.600   1.470           352      430   14,700   14,270
Mung Beans               -         -         -      10,000        -       -    0.653         -        -       6,530    6,530
Sesame                  r          967    1,075        -      0.223   0.245        -         216      263       -     -  263
Subtotal           20,000 4/  2,580    2,867   30,000
Rainfed Crops:  Sesame                      -      24,630   26,083   21,322    0.074   0.081   0.081          1,823    2,113    1,727   -  386
Chickpea                -       22,054   23,330   20,014    0.188   0.313   0.313         4,146    7,303    6,264   -1,038
Wheat                    -      11,172   11,898        -      0.310   0.327   0.327        3,463    3,891       -     -3,891
Fodder Sorgh            -       10,851   11,486    9.986    0.048   0.050   0.050           521       574       499   -   75
Cotton                  -        5,582    5,949        -      0.116   0.131   0.131         648       779       -         779
Irrig. Infra            -          215       215    2,000                 -        -        -              -             -
Subtotal   ~~372/ 74,504   78,961   53,322            -        -        -        -         -         -        -
Subtotal 4,5 /5,2
Total              66,657    77,084   81,828   83,322          -        -        -        -         -         -        -
(Overall Cropping Intensity)               -      (1.16)   (1.23)   (1.25)
V. Total Annual Incremental
Froduction ( w - w )
Cotton             5,385 ton
Wheat             10,379
Hung Beans         6,530
Sesame            -  650
Chickpea          -1,038
Fodder Sorghum   -   75
1/  Rainfed under P and W, irrigated under W.
2 Rainfed under P, V and W.
3/ Irrigated under P, W and W.
4/ Partly irrigated under P, W and fully irrigated under W.



-48-
ANNEX 2
Figure I
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Implementation Schedule
Pol-ot YG,I
No.                          Ao.,titi                                        -1                    1                    2                    3                    4                    5                   So1
I    TUSEWELL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS AND POWER SUPPLY
A     Pr-Project Atwic,tin
1      Dettiled SWil Su yra  in North.rn Pert of Project Area
2      De Fail    .I 12eceri.al Survey and PrIepartion of Spocif.catron   -
3      Pr,paration of Tender Do-umen-
4      Apprnmtntet of Key Sneff
a     PrOcunararte                                                                                                                                      -
1                  ~~~~~2
1      Tobecl11 CoPono -nro .
1    2
2      Rig Mehani.  Spre                                                              .......... 2
3      Impon-ed Driling Equ.i-cnt and Maneriole                                                           .2
4      P- et Tn-nmmi. or nd Transfornution Equipment                                                                                                                  I 2  .   Ou
5      Wokehftp Eqoipment -2
2                                        C
5      Vehicled and Plant fon Cor-tt-tio.i
7      Pump Unit.
8      Office end Srrmnn Equipm-nt
C     Cohtotuct,on 
1      Seletioi and Survey of Tub.ycIll Irrigation Syonem A-                             .................................................. ................
2      Grilling acd Coneenuction of Tubeonlila
3      Conetrnctlon Wf 33/11 KV S.b.-tneo-
4      Constru-t,on of t l  V Line
5      Construction  f New intition and Drin2 Sry-tes;
o      Cn--uci.n of PumP Houae ord fmrometc Acc
R o-2cino1Pm o2;adl                                               Imrt2eto pS2;...... ........ ................ ......................... .............
7      Inatalietiin of Pumping Unite end Connectilon                                                                       ...... ................................. ...............
8      Conet,on of Etietino Wells from DSmer to Eltottip
Po.raend Con      ntion                                                                                                               ......................
9      Building2 ion Coansrurtio e nd O&M                                                                                                                                                                          rE
D Operation end M.intT...ano 
1      Operetton and Meitenane.   ot Irrigation and Drainage                       0                                                                                                                                 
2      Operation and Mainten-nceof Po. , Supply Syatem-                                                                .........
E    Sttffing                                                                      0 dS
orilling Dwioiaie
CiMil Engi2-ing Ditielon
Mtrhaniat1 Engineering DGisin7_
It    AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT ACTIVITIES
A     Pro-Proijct Actitiat
1      Recruitment of Irigation Agrnnorilt [Water Matotgmeetl
2      Prp-i.tot of Tender D- -ume_
8     Pnecurem.n.
1      E-uip-mnt
2      Fe-ilie ,and Chrmirele
C     Con-truCtion
1      Demontr-tien Farm
2      Production Cnmp_
D     Saffing
1      Ectenaion Staff
2      Applied R.tearlh Staff (D-.mnst,ation Fam.d
III    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ACTIVITIES
A     Expet: Irrigation Ag,rnomiit (W1t.r ManaGerr-tl
B    Cori-ultent:
Ground-oter Engineer
Eleott,o  Enginr.r
Pump SpaoioIist
Agriculturiett 
Sil Pedoloiut
Ag4oultutal E-onomiat
IV    TRAINING ACTIVITIES
A     Irriga2ion Deparme-nt
1      Felloyhip:
a        Dreundycater Enginer_
b        Hydn pa22git_
0        Irrg.atIon Agnonrmit_
2      Study To-_                                                                                       
B     Ag,ioultutal Comoration
1      Flloethips:
5        Sukriem MetEor Spoo iBot iConten
b        Subiaeet Mtattr Sp22iali2t (Whetl_
Subjtat Matter Spni.l et 1Beaned_                                                                                                                                              Pr -   t t
V     MONITORING AND EVALUATION ACTIVITIES                                                  BSat Line S.,.ri ,                               Mid-t--meuem                               Co   cion RaCpon               |
Wenld Benk-24427



-49-
ANNEX 2
Figure 2
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Proposed Crop Rotation, Labor and Draft Power Requirement
Apr.       May         Jun.  L    Jul.  I   Aug.  I   Sep.            Oct.       Nov.  I   Dec.  I   Jan.            Feb.       Mar.
(Green Manure?                          Cotton (SRT 1)
Acre 1
Mu g Peishwwah                                                             Wheat (Yezin 21  
Acre 2                                     8         d                                                          110 d
Pair of Bullocks and Handler Days per Month          Cotton
Acre 1    Wheat         (2)                     4           4            2          2                      2           1          3
Acre 2  Threshing                        Mung                                                                Wheat
10         6           1            1                      7           3          4                                             10
Hand Labour in Man-Days per Month
Acre 1                                                                                                       Cotton
Wheat                   (1)                     2           8            6          6           7          8           7          5
Acre 2  Threshing                       Mung                                                                 Wheat
10         5           2           2          1           10           2          4          3           2           1          10
30                                                                                                                                              30
20                                                                                                                                              2
10                                                                                                                                              10nd Labour
Bull<Xt,       , ock 97                        Total Man DayssX
0                                                                                                                                              0
FApr.        May         Jun.        Jul.       Aug.        Sep.  I Oct.  I Nov.               Dec.        Jan.        Feb.       Mar.
World Bank-24433



BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Project Organization - Construction Phase
Project Steering Committee
Planning and Statistics Department
Irrigation Department
Agricultural Corporation                              Irrigation Departmefl
Settlement and Land Record Dept.
Electric Power Corporation
Foreign Economic Relations DePt.
Groundwater Irrigation Project I
Project Director
(Superintending Engineer)
Electric Powver    lA                                                                         lstto
Corporation     l                                                            Administraton
I          l
EPC Construcetion
Team for Electric
Power Supply
Drilling Division                                   Civil Engineering Division                                             Mechanical Engineering
(EeuirEngineer)                                    (Executive Engineer)                                                  (Executive! Engineer)
Drilling     Testing              ~~Construction                              Land                  Drilling                 Pntalain!pskso
Teams  Teams               Monyvva                             ~~~~~~~~~~Preparation    Maintenance                MaintenanceTem
l I                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Buildi up from t in
year 1 to 4 in year 4         Testing
I                        ~~~~~~Pumps
t   1  |  Stores  h                      Engines (diesel)
|   Mainitenance                                 - |  -Drilling       - 1<                Motors (electric)
|  Team     |- Construction                                                             Vehicles/Tractors
|  Monywa       |                                   Pu_mp           lls                                                                      S |
I)'
World Bank-24431



BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Project Organization - Operational Phase
Irrigation
Department
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Executive Engineer                     u     n
ExecutrveEngineer~~~~~~~~~~~~(Mech.)
Ye-U                                                                       Weiktila
Administration                                                                    Corporation
fPower Suppry System|
Civil Maintenance Sub-Divisions                             _
Xudalln      ~                  Chaung-U              YeYe-1                                                   Mechanical Maintenance Sub-Division
a n                                                                                         L    l[2   Kala | 
(AE.)  (XE)    I      (XE.)          g~~~~~~~~ 1I   KAEa.                                                   Assistant Enrgineer                                                                    1
AE)                                             (AE) I            (AE.)                                                MonEw)
_    Records  _    Records  _    Records                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Records
|  anh snce          n  Mant mn ||Man n  nce                                                      Feld     l                  
Teom   leum   TeMm aintenance                                                             sStores
Budalin           Monyva           Chaung-                                                      Teams
Prooosed Sub-division in the                                                          Wells                                                             Pumps                             tt
reorganization plan of ID                                                            Pump S,ts                         Testing                         Spares                               |
Distributlon Lines               Pump                            Tools
Existing Sub-divisions                                                                                                 Motors/Starters
L  --i                                                                                                                           Vehicles/iTractors
World Bank-24990



-52-
ANNEX 2
Figure 5
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT - I
Flow Chart for Irrigation Management
Ministry of Agriculture  ~Project Impact Evaluation
and Forests                     ~~~~~~Institute of Economics
and Forests                      ~~~~~~University of Rangoon
Irrigation Department
Irrigation                                   Township Peoples        I                             Agriculture
Dept-Maintenance           -                          Council      1          -r-ai
Exec. Engineer                           I    Elected Representative                                 Corporation
Assistant/         1                                                                             Subject Matter
Agricultural                                           j                                            Specialists
Engineers
Maintenance,                                                                                    Deputy Township
Operating Teams                          r-_                                                           Managers
I     Village Tract Peoples   I
I           Council           |
r               ,                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Village Tract Managers
Agricultural Development                           V
Supervision Committee
l                      l       ~~~~~~~~~Village Managers 
L I
Water Users Group
Nominated Operator
World Bank-24430



-53--
MAN
BRONCWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I               ANN                                       EX                  X 3
Cost Summary                                                                                    Table  1
(KRats Million)
HARD.                                                      Phxsical
WATER                       POWER I   DOM OF    EXTENSION I                   TECHNICAL                       Contingenucies
WELL     DISTRIDUTION I ENGINEERING I  SUPPLY  CONSTRUCTED   APPLIED    FERTILIZER    ASST, I   PROJECT                      -------
CONTRUCTION    ORAINADE    ADMINISTRATION OYSTERS    WORS             RESEARCH   AND CHENICALS TRAINING  EVALUATION Total          Z    Amount
I. INVESTRENT COSTS
A, BUILDING AND CIVIL WORKS
Irrigation                                                           5,05            29.03                                                                                             3             4,08  13.1    4,46
Power SuPPVl                                                                     -               -             2.19---                                                 - -              2.19   7.0    0.15
Agriculture                                                              --                                              -               0.74               -          --               0.74  10.0    0.07
Sub-Total DUILDING AND CIVIL WORKS                                       5.05           29.03                -    2.19             -         0.74              -          -- 37.01  12,7    4.09
0. EQUIPNENT, MATERIALS, AND SPARES
Esaunemet fur Wells                                                 18,60                -               -        --- -                                         -                      10,60  3.0    0.55
Enuipinent tar Power Supply System                                               -               -            37,34            ---                                                 - 37,34   5,3    2.00
Irrigation Dept. Esuipsent                                              -            13.76 8                                                                   -                       13.78   0.0    0.00
Agricultural Emuiement                                                   -               -               -        --                     0,59               -          -           -    0.59   0.1    0.00
Fertilizer and Chemoicals                                                -               --                       -                          -         11.91           -           -   11,91   0.0   0.00
Esuipinent fnr Project Evaluation                                        -               -                -       ---                                       -          -        0.09    0.09   0.0    0.00
Vehicles                                                                 -            4.02                -       --                     1,04               -      0.12         0.12    5.30   0.0    0.00
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT, NATERIALS, AND SPARES                              18.60           17.80                -   37.34             -         1.63          11.91       0.12        0.21   07.62   2.9    2.55
Tntal INVESTNENT COSTS                                                     23.66           46.83                    39,53             -         2,37          11.91       0.12        0.21  124.63   5.0    7,24
II, RECOIRREAT COSTS
A. OPERATIONS I NAINTENANCE
OlANof Constructed Yorks                                                ---                                      -         6.11             -              -          --               6.11   6,2    0.30
Agriculture DIN                                                                                                               -         0,32               -          --               0.32  10.0    0.03
Evaluation ION                                                                          --                       -                           -           -                    0.05    0,05  10,0    0.00
Sob-Total OPERATIONS A NAINTENANEE                                                                                            6.11          0.32              -          -        0.05    6.40   6.4    0.41
B. AONIHISTRATIVE AND GENERAL. EXPENSES
1. SALARIES
Irrig, Dept.                                                        -                -            4.90        ----                                                --                4,90   5.3    0.26
Airic. Corp.                                                        -                -               -        -            -         0.70                                           0.70   0.0    0,01
Electric Power Corp.                                                -                -               -     0.60            ---                                    --                0.60  15.0    0,09
Ukniversitnt-Economic Dept,.                                                                                     -    -                 -                                  0,07    0.07   0,0    0.00
Sub-Total SALARIES                                                      --                           4.90    0.60             -         0,78               -          -       0,07    6.36   5,5    0.35
Sub-Total ADMINISTRATIVE AND GENERAL EXPENSE                               --                           4.9D     0.60                      0.78               -          -        0.07    6.36   5.5    0.35
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE I TRAINING
Expatriate/Consultant                                                   ---                                      --           -                    -              4.60            -    4.60   0.0    0.00
Overseas Training                                                       ---                                      ----                                             2.32            -    2.32   0.0    0.00
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 1 TRAINING                                  ---                                      ----                                              7.00           -    7.00   0.0    0.00
Total RECURARENT COSTS                                                         -                -            4.90    0.60          6.11         1.10              -       7.00        0.121  19.01   3.9    0.77
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                        23.66           46,83             4.90   40.13          6.11         3.47          11.91       7-12        0.33  144.46   5.5    0,00
Physical Contingencies                                                    0,77            4.24             0.26    2.24         0.18          0.11              -          -        0.00     0.06   0,0    0.00
Price Contingencies                                                       2,12            5.94             0.61    4.71         1.34          0.37           2.65       1.00        0,02   1B8.5   4.9    0.92
Total PRJECT COSTS                                                          26,55           57,02             5.77   47,00          7.02         3.95          14.56       8.20        0.36  171.31   5.2    8,93
Taxes                                                                     510             5.91                    12.60                       0,50              -       0,05        0,10   24.13   2.6    0.63
Foreign Exchange                                                         15,10           13.79                - 23.55           3.30          1,30          14.56       7.64        0,17   79.40   2.3    1800



-54-
ANNEX 3
iBURMA                                                      Table  2
GROUNDWATER I RRIGATION PROJECT I
Well Construction
Detailed Cost Table
Base costs
Quantitg                                                  (Ktats '000)
Unit 83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  Total   Unit Cost  83/84   84/S1    85/86   86/87  87/8S   T,t--l
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. DRILLING COSTS
Mobilization                                        Sue       -      34     34      28      10     106      4,000        -    !36.P   136.0   112.0   40.0    424.0
Pilot Hole Drilling                                  ft       -  6,200  7,550  7,750  3,450  24!950            50        -    310.0   377.5   387.5  172.5  1,247.5
Reamins to 20 irn diameter                           ft       -  2,700  3.400  3.500  1.550  11,150            40        -    108.0   136.0   140.0   62.0    446.0
Reaming to 12 1/4 in diameter                        ft       -  3.500  4,200  4.250  1,900  13,850            22        -     77.0    92.4    93.5   41.8    304.7
Installatior, of Casing I Scer..                    ft        -  6,000  7,400  7,600  3,400  24,400             7        -     42.0    51.8    53.2   23.8    170.8
Uell 01velo ient                                   Su4        -      34     34      28      10     106      1,500        -     51.0    51.0    42.0   15.0    159.0
Mechanical Spares                                  Sum        1       -       -      -       -       1   950,000   950.0           -       -        -       -    950.0
Drill. Spares I Consumables (exc.fuel)             Sum        1       -      -       -       -       11,900,000 1,900.0            -       -        -       -  19900.0
Sub-Total DRILLING COSTS                                                                                             2,B50.0    724.0   844.7   828.2  355.1  5,602.0
P. TUBEWELL COMPONENTS
Casing-10 in ID MS w/ Screw Couplings               ft   1,700        -      -       -       -   19700        220   374.0          -       -        -       -    374.0
Screen-1O in ID GRP                                 ft      300       -      -       -       -     300        356   106.8         -        -        -      -    106.8
Casing-12 in ID MS w! Screw Couplings                ft   8,000       -      -       -       -   8a000        298 2,384.0          -       -        -       -  2,384.0
Screen-12 in ID GRP                                 ft   1,000        -      -       -       -   1,000        426   426.0          -       -        -       -    426.0
Casing-8 in ID GRP                                  ft   1,600        -      -       -       -   1,600        173   276.8          -       -        -       -    276.8
Screen-8 in ID GRP                                  ft   3,800        -      -       -       -   3,800        203   771.4          -       -        -       -    771.4
Casing-6 in ID GRP                                   ft   2,900       -      -       -       -   2,900        129   374.1          -       -        -       -    374.1
Screen-6 in ID GRP                                   ft   4,900       -      -       -       -   4,900        153   749.7          -       -        -       -    749.7
Reducer 12 in/8 in GRP                             No.       78       -      -       -       -      78      1,480   115.4          -       -        -       -    115.4
Reducer 10 in/6 in ERP                             No.       28       -      -       -       -      28      1,250    35.0          -       -        -       -     35.0
Adaptor 12 in/12 in MS/GRP                         No.       78       -      -       -       -      78        100      7.8         -       -        -       -      7.8
Adaptor 10 in/10 in MS/GRP                         No.       28       -      -       -       -      28         75      2.1         -       -        -       -      2.1
Gravel                                             ft3        -  S,OOO  6,700  6Y600  29700  21,000           3.4        -     17.0    22.8    22.4    9.2        71.4
Sub-Total TUBEWELL COMPONENTS                                                                                        5,623.1      17.0    22.8    22.4    9.2  5,694.5
C. PUMPHOUSE. WELL HEAD AND ROADS
Pumphouse   W Well Plinth                          No.        -      18     36      35     17      106    10,000         -    180.0   360.0   350.0  170.0  1,060.0
Discharge Box                                      No.        -      18     36      35     17      106      3,400        -     61.2   122.4   119.0   57.8    360.4
Access Road                                        Sul        -      18     36      35     17      106      7,600        -    136.8   273.6   266.0  129.2    805.6
Sub-Total PUMPHOUSE, WELL HEAD AND ROADS                                                                                    -    378.0   756.0   735.0  357.0  2,226.0
D. PUMP UNITS I PIPEWDRK
Pump Unit (I cusec x 48 ft head)                   No.        -      11      -       -       -      11    32,000         -    352.0        -        -       -    352.0
Pump Unit (1 cusec x 64 ft head)                   No.        -      17      -       -      -       17    38,000         -    646-0        -        -       -    646.0
Pump Unit (2 cusec x 53 ft head)                   No.        -      10      -       -      -       10    47,000         -    470.0        -        -       -    470.0
Puap Unit (2 cusec x 68 ft head)                   No.        -       8      -       -      -        8    53,000         -    424.0        -        -      -    424.0
Pump Unit (2 cusec x 84 ft head)                   No.        -      17      -       -      -       17    62,000         -  1,054.0        -        -       -  1,054.0
Pump Unit (2 cusec x 105 ft head)                  No.        -      23      -       -       -      23    75,000         -  1,725.0        -        -       -  1,725.0
Pump Unit (2 cusec x 125 ft head)                  No.        -      20      -       -      -       20    96,000         -  1,920.0        -        -       -  1,920.0
Discharge Pipe I Valve (1 cusec)                   No.        -      28      -       -      -       28      6,000        -    168.0        -        -       -    168.0
Discharge Pipe I Valve (2 cusec)                   No.        -      78      -       -       -      78      7,500        -    585.0        -        -       -    585.0
Installation I Transport                           No.        -      18     36      35     17      106      3,000        -     54.0   108.0   105.0   51.0    318.0
20% sPares on Pump Units                           Sus        -       1      -       -      -        1 1,318,000         -  1.318.0        -        -       -  1,318.0
Sub-Total PUMP UNITS I PIPEWORK                                                                                             -  8.716,0   108.0   105.0   51.0  8,980.0
E. CONVERSION OF EXISTING WELLS TO ELECTRIC POWER
Motor and Gear Boxes                               No.        -     25       -       -      -       25    36,000         -    900.0        -        -       -    900.0
Installation I Transport                           No.        -      -      13      12      -       25     3,000         -        -    39.0    36.0        -      75.0
20% Spares on Motors I Gear Boxes                  Sum        -       1      -       -      -        1   180,000         -    180.0        -        -       -    180.0
Sub-Total CONVERSION OF EXISTING WELLS TO ELECTRIC POWER                                                                    -  1,080.0    39.0    36.0         -  1155.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                   8,473.1 10,915.0 1,770.5 1.726.6  772.3 23,657.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                      8,473.1 10,915.0 1,770.5 1-726.6  772.3 23,657.5



-55-
DIEM                                                                             ANNEX 3
8RIMMATER IRRIGATION  RWECT I                                                                  Table  3
Water Distribution  & Drainage
Detailed Cost Title
Dawe Costs
Qumntita                                              (Keats '000)                     Phv.
- --------                                           - -   --- - ----------- ----------C--------------  ont. For.  Gross
Unit 83/84 84/85  85/86  86/87  87/99  Total  Unit Cost 83/84   84/85    85/86   86/87   87/88   Total  Rate  Exch. Tax Rate
1. IWVESTIENT COSTS
A. MATER DISTRIBUTItN I DRAINAGE SYSTEMS
Distri. Network I Structures (1 CStCe systet)    No.      -      6      12    10       -      28    91.000       -   546.0 1,092.0  910.0         -  2,548.0  0.15      0        O
Distri. Network I Structures (2 cUSte sYste.)    No.      -     12     24     25      17      78   149,000       -  1,780.0 3,576.0 3y725,0 2,533.0 11'622.0  0.15      D        0
Draixwe Network I Structures (I CUSte sYstem)   No.       -      6     12      10      -      28    219000       -    126.0  252.0  210.0         -   5S8.0  0.15       0        O
brai xse Network I Structures (2 cusec ssstin)   No.      -     12     24     25     17       78    30,000       -    360.0  720.0  750.0  510,0  29340.0  0.15         0        0
All- rce for FullY Lining 102 of Distri.S4stes  Sum       -      2      4      3       1      10   300,000       -    600.0 1,200.0  900.0  300.0  3000.0  0.15        0        0
Sub-TRI   MATER DISTRIBUTION I DRAINAGE SYSTEMS                                                                     -  3,420.0 6,B40.0 6.495.0 3,343.0 209098.0
8. Lwsd IzEPARATION
b- a    ading                                    acre     - 2.900  5,800  5.800  3,300  17V,00         286       -    829.4 1,658.8 1,658.8  943,8  5090.8  0.15        0        O
21v  (s.tivation                                 acre     -  2,900  5,800  SSO  3,300  17,800           92       -    266.8  533.6  533.6  303.6  1,637.6  0.15        0         0
S.n$;  sl LAND PREPARATION                                                                                          -  1,096.2 2,192.4 2v192.4 19247.4  6,720.4
C, IIT31NG I NUILDINGS (Additional)
rausirie                                         Sum      I      -      -      -      -        11,400.000 1,400.0         -       -       -       -  1,400.0  0.1       0        0
Offices                                          SuN      I      -      -      -      -        1   200.000   200.0        -       -       -       -    200,0   0.1      0        0
Uckshops                                         Sum      1      -      -       -      -       1  250,000   250.0         -       -       -       -    250.0   0.1      0        D
Stores                                           Su       1      -      -      -      -        1  350.000  350.0          -       -       -       -    350.0  0.1       0        0
Sub-Total HOUSING I BUILDINGS (Additional)                                                                    2,200.0        -       -       -       -  2,200.0
D. CONSTRUCTION vEHICLES I PLANT
Pickup Truch-1S crt,4x4                          No.      -     15      -      -      -       15   130,000       -  1,-50.0       -       -       -  1.950.0      0   0.7      0.3
Truck Diesel-10 tons                             No.      -      8      -      -      -        8  259.000        -  2,072.0       -       -       - 2.072.0      0   0.7       0.3
Crane Truck-10 tons                              No.      -      I      -      -      -        1  2669000        -    266.0       -       -       -   266.0      0   0.7       0.3
Tractor, Crawler-90  F                           No.      -      8      -      -      -        8   604,000       -  4,832.0       -       -       -  4,032.0     0   0.7       0.3
Tractor, VIheeled-60 WF                          No.      -      4      -      -      -        4   3039000       -  1,212.0       -       -       -  1.212.0      0   0.7      0.3
Land Lmllini Attach.                             No.      -      6      -      -       -       6   121,000       -    726.0       -       -       -    726.0     0   0.7       0.3
v Ditcher                                        No.      -      2      -      -      -        2    97.000       -    194.0       -       -       -    194.0      0   0.7      0.3
Subsoils/Chisel Plough                           No.      -      2      -      -      -       2    37,000        -    74.0        -       -       -     74.0     0   0,7      0D3
Disc. Marrow-12 ft                               NO.      -      2      -      -      -        2    37,000       -     74.0       -       -       -     74.0     0   0.7       0.3
Disc, Breaker-12 ft                              Not      -      2      -       -      -       2   32.000        -     64.0       -       -       -     64.0      0   0.7      0.3
Spike tooth Harrow-16 ft                         No.      -      2      -      -       -       2    13.000       -     26.0       -       -       -     26.0     0   0.7       0.3
Low Loader                                       No.      -      I      -      -       -       1  323,000        -    323.0       -       -            323.0      0   0.7      0,3
Copaction Eat                                    Set      -      7      -      -      -        7   234,000       -  1,638.0       -       -       -  1.630.0      0   0.7      0.3
Spare Parts (201 of above)                       Sue      -      I      -      -      -        1 2.347.000       -  2,347.0       -       -       -  2,347.0     0   0.7       0.3
Sub-Total CONSTRUCTION vENICLES I PLANT                                                                             - 15.798.0       -       -       - 15.798,0
E. SURvEY I OFFICE EQUIPMENT
Surv    Ewaipnent (Plane table, level. etc)      Sets    -       6      -      -      -        6   30.OOO        -    180.0       -       -       -    100.0      0   0.7      0.3
Office Esuipment (tympriter, copier,etcl         Sum      -      1      -      -       -       118500            -    185.0        -                    105.0     0   0.7      0.3
Sub-Total SUMvEY I OFFICE EQUIPMENT                                                                                 -    365.0       -       -       -    365.0
F. ilPW  EWUIPIYT I CONSOUABLES
Esuip. I Tools                                   Sum      -      1      -      -      -        1 1.438,000       -  1,438.0       -       -       -  IU438.0      0   0.7      0.3
Consumables                                      Sum      -      I      I       I      1       4    50.OOO       -     50.0   50.0   50.0   50.0   200.0          0  0.34     0.15
Sub-Total IIDR%SNIP EQUIPIENT I CONSUIARLES                                                                         -  I.488.0    50.0   50.0   50.0  1.638,0
Total IN4ESTMENT COSTS                                                                                           2,200,0 22.167.2 9 082.4 8,737,4 4,640,4 46.827.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                              2,200.0 22.167.2 9.002,4 8.737.4 4,640.4 46,827.4



-56-
ANNEX 3
Table 4
BURKA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Engineering, Supervision and Administration
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
Ouantitv                                                (K3ats '000)
Unit 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 Total Unit Cost 83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88  lotal
I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. DIRECTOR/DEPUTY DIRECTDR OFFICE
Director                                           MY       1     1      1      1     1      5    15,600   15.6    15.6    15.6    15.6    15.6    78.0
Deautv Director (also i.c. Civil Ens. Div.)   MY            1     1      1      1     1      5    13,200   13.2    13.2    13.2    13.2    13.2    66.0
Asst, Engineer                                     MY       1     1      1      1     1      5      5,400    5.4       5.4      5.4      5.4      5.4    27.0
Senior Acct./Office Superind.                      MY       2     2      2      2     2    10       4,800    9.6       9.6     9.6      9.6      9.6    48.0
Accountant                                         MY       2     2      2      2     2    10       4,000    8.0       8.0     8.0      8.0      8.0    40.0
Clerical I Accts. Asst.                           SuB       1     1      1      1     1      5    28,000   28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0   140.0
Peons, Laborers, etc                              Sum       1     1      1      1     1      5      6,000    6.0       6.0     6.0      6.0       6.0    30.0
Sub-Total DIRECTOR/DEPUTY DIRECTOR OFFICE                                                                       85.8    85.8    85.8    85.8    85.8   429.0
B. CIVIL ENGINEERING DIVISION
Asst. Executive Ensineer                           KY      -      1      1      1     1      4      6,000       -     6.0      6.0       6.0     6.0    24.0
Asst. Ensineer                                     MY       4     4      4      4     4    20       5,400   21.6    21.6    21.6    21.6    21.6   108.0
Agric, EnSirteer                                   MY      -      1      1      1     1      4      5,400       -      5.4      5.4     5.4      5.4    21.6
Sub-Asst. Ens/Forman/Draughtsman                   MY      8    26    26    26    26   112          3,840   30.7    99.8    99.8    99.8    99.8   430.1
Clerical Asst., Acctg. I Stores                    MY    0.5      1      1      1     1   4.5    20,000   10.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    90.0
Peons, Laborers, etc                               MY    0.5      1      1      1     1   4.5    12,000    6.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    54.0
Sub-Total CIVIL ENGINEERING DIVISION                                                                            68.3   164.8   164.8   164.8   164.8   727.7
C. MECHANICAL ENGINEERING DIVISION
Executive Engineer                                 MY       -     1      1      1     1      4    10,800        -    10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8    43.2
Asst, Engineer                                     MY       1     4      4      4     4    17       5,400    5.4    21.6    21.6    21.6    21.6    91.8
Sub-Asst. Ensineer                                 MY       2     6      6     6      6    26       3,840    7.7    23.0    23.0    23.0    23.0    99.8
Mech.y Welders, Electri.yFiltersietc              Sum,   0.3      1      1      1     1   4.3    75,000   18.8    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0   318.8
Clerical Asst.y Acctg. I Stores                  Sum.   0.3       1      1      1     1   4.3    20,000    5.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    85.0
Peons, Laborers, etc                              Sum.   0.3      1      1      1     1   4.3    12,000    3.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    51.0
Sub-Total MECHANICAL ENGINEERING DIVISION                                                                       39.8   162.4   162.4   162.4   162.4   689.6
D. GEOLOGICAL ENGINEERING DIVISION
Executive Engineer                                 MY       1     1      1      1     1      5    1O,BOO   10.8    10.8    10.8    10.8         10.8    54.0
Asst. Engineer                                     MY       2     6      6      6     6    26       5,400   10.8    32.4    32.4    32.4    32.4   140.4
Sub-Asst. Eng/Draushtsean                          MY       -     7      7     7      7    28       3,840       -    26.9    26.9    26.9    26.9   107.5
Clerical Assty Acctg. I Stores                   Sum    0.3       1      1      1     1   4.3    20Y000    5.0    20.0    20.0    201           20.0    85.0
Peons, Laborers, etc                              Sum    0.3      1      1      1     1   4.3    12Y000    3.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    51.0
Sub-Total GEOLOGICAL ENGINEERING DIVISION                                                                       29.6   102.1   102.1   102.1   102.1   437.9
E. OTHER OVERHEAD
DIM of Road Vehicles incl. Drivers Salaries  Sum    0.3           1      1      1     1   4.3   616,000  154.0   616.0   616.0   616.0   616.0 2,618.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                             377.6 1,131.2 1,131.2 1,131.2 1,131.2 4,902.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                               377.6 1,131.2 1,131.2 1,131.2 1,131.2 4,902.2



-57-
BURMA                                                                           ANNEX  3
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I                                                               Table  S
Power Transmission & Transformation
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
Quantits                                                (Kvats '000)
Unit 83/84 84/85  85/86 86/87 87/88 Total  Unit Cost 83184   84/85    85/86   8b687  87/88   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A, 33/11 KV SUBSTATION
33 KV Control Transforeer           No.       -       3      -     -      -       3   445,080       -  1,335.0         -        -       -  1335.0
Substation Civil Works              No.       -       I     -      -      -       1    36,000       -      36.0        -        -       -      36.0
Transport I Erection                No.       -       I     -      -      -       1   122,000       -    122.0         -        -       -    122.0
Control House,Office
Staff Housing g Fencing          No,       -       I     -      -      -      I   100,000        -    100.0         -        -       -    100.0
Packaged 33/11 KY Transfarsers   No,          -       4     -      -      -      4   304,000        -  1,216.0         -        -       -  1;216.0
Sub-Total 33/11 KV SUBSTATION                                                                           -  2,809.0         -       -       -  2,809.0
B. 11 KV TRANSMISSION LINES
Conductor 150&m2ACSR)& Jointing  Mile         -    243      -      -      -    243    20,830        -  59061.7                             5.061,7
Conductor (30mm2ACSR)% Jointing  Mile         -    t49      -      -      -    149    12,490        -  1.861.0         -        -       -  1,861.0
Pin Insulators (33 KV)              Sets      -    208      -      -      -    208      2,320       -    482.6         -        -       -    482.6
Tension Insulators (33 KV)          Sets      -      76     -      -      -     76      6,960       -    529.0         -        -       -    529.0
Pin Insulators (11 KY)              Sets      -  1.400      -      -      -  1,400      1,765       -  2,471.0         -        -       -  2y471,0
Tension Insulators (11 KV)          Sets      -    290      -      -      -    290      5,300       -  1,537.0         -        -       -  1,537.0
Pole I Cross Arms                   Mile      -      50    41    30    10    131    35,080          -  1,754.0 1,438.3 1,052.4  350.8  4,595.5
Cement,Cascrete g Suas              Kile      -      50    41    30    10    131    12,225          -    611.2   501.2   366.8  122.3  1601.5
Transport g Erertion                Mile      -      50    41    30    10    131        8,760       -    438.0   359.2   262.8   87.6  1,147.6
Sub-Total 11 KV TRANSMISSION LINES                                                                      - 14,745.5 2,299.7 1,682.0  560.6 1,286.7
C. LT CONNECTION
25 KVA Transformers                 No.       -      67     -      -      -     67    60,000        -  4,020.0         -        -       -  4,020.0
50 KVA Transformers                 No.       -      70     -      -      -     70    94,000        -  6Y580.0         -        -       -  6,580.0
Tension I Pin Insulators            Sets      -    131      -      -      -    131      6,000       -    786.0         -        -       -    786.0
Transformer Protection              Sets      -    131      -      -      -    131    24,000        -  3t144.0         -        -       -  30144.0
Pole g Platform                     No.       -      18    49    47    17    131        2,000       -      36.0    90.0    94.0   34.0    262.0
Cable I Earthing                    Set       -    131      -      -      -    131      5.000       -    655.0         -        -       -    655.0
Well Distri.Board                   No.       -    131      -      -      -    131    98700         -  1,139.7         -        -       -  1,139.7
CementrConcrete & GuYs              Sun       -      18    49    47    17    131          500       -       9.0    24.5    23.5    8.5        65.5
Transport I Labor                   Sum       -      18    49    47    17    131        6.000       -    108.0   294.0   282.0  102.0    786,0
Sub-Total LT CONNECTION                                                                                 - 16,477.7   416.5   399.5  144.5 17,438.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                     - 34,032.2 20715.2 2,081.5  705.1 39,533.9
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. ENSINEERING I SUPERVISION (EPC)
Engineerins                        Sum       1       -     -      -      -       I   200,000  200.0          -        -        -       -    200.0
Supervision                        Sue       -                    I I  I  1     4   100,000        -    100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0    400.0
Sub-Total EN8INEERIN8 & SUPERVISION (EPC)                                                         200.0    100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0    600.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                  200.0    100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0    600,0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                    200.0 Z4,132.2 2.815.2 2,181.5  805.2 40,133.9



-58-
ANNEX 3
Table 6
BURMA4
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Operation and Maintenance of Constructed Works
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
Quantity                                               (Kwats '000)
Unit 83/84 84185 B5/86  86187   87/88  Total   Unit Cost 83/84 84/85  85/86   86187   87/88  Total
I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. ENERGY a/ b/
Energy-bulk charse at 33 KV at K 0,29/kWh    GWH          -     -    0.7    2.6      4.7      8.1   290,000       -      -  211.7   759.8 1,363.0 2,334.5
B. MAINTENANCE
Maintenance of Water Points                     No.       -     -      18     67      114     199      4.500      -      -   81.0   301.5   513.0   895.5
Maintenance of Water Distr. I Drainage SYs. Acre         -      -  2,900  9,700  16P500  29,100           37      -      -  107.3   358.9   610.5 1,076.7
Maintenance of Power Supplg SYs.                Mile     -    50      95    125       135     405      4,444      -  222.2  422.2   555.5   599.9 1,799.8
Sub-Total MAINTENANCE                                                                                                -  222.2  610.5 1.215.9 1,723.4 30772.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                   -  222.2  822.2 1,975.7 3l086.4 6.106.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                     -  222.2  822.2 1,975.7 3.086.4 6v106.5
/a  Estimation of enery consumption costs - Assumptions:
1. Average capacitu of I cuser otors = 8 Kva
2. Average capacitg of 2 cusec motors = 25 Kva
3. Averale capacity of motors on existing wells = 12 Kva
4. Utilization at full development = 2600 h/annum
5. Utilization builds up linearly from 70 to 100% over four years trom commission
7. Bulk energy charge at 33 KV bus = K 0.29 Per Kwh
/b EnerNw Cost Calculation
From Begining of Drw Season in Year
85-86   86-87   87-88   88-89   89-90  90-91  91-92
No of 1 cusec wells connected                 6       18        28      28       28      28     28
No of 2 cusec wells connected                12       36        61      78       78      78     78
No of existing wells connected                -       13        25      25       25      25     25
Total                    18        67       114     131      131    131    131
Installed capacity of vells (Kva)          348      1,200   2,017   2,442   2,442  2,442  2,442
Demand capacity at 33/11 KY subst.(Kva)  400        1,380   2,320   2,800   2,800  2,800  2,800



o                                                                   -        -.
-     a                                                             -.       a
04    1-.-                                                          -        10
-     04                                                                     04   tO                                            to144                   -  I -
-     to                            0111                to  I to       -     CC                                           - C                     -  I
0           C                               C                     I m              a-                                              a-                       Ic
to   104,   0                               0                     I n-I      -      I   00              Onto--, -I  04   I 1-nt    toOt'04  I 06   rat
I41  II'  tOICOOO,r-rl  110    00,4 Ito 40                                   to  .4  N-C I V. a-cc 0401CC  I 0-4   4--4-4 -4 10110
1-fl   0     4   04C'6-'-IZC  -4CC  I to-I    0,04 Ca  10           to        C    Cl   1110-01404104904004  .0-rca                      a-ta   1    tot
0     oc....                  ac,-o  tn-c        ..- a,--,  I Otto          nt          41 Ca-  104  10-0-aa.n  0404  I 04I-              C'-OC'-  I to  I Ca
1..  1..   04  4   to  10-  04   'C-  04    I   to  I   ni  04)  04  0    -i   04   1-4   04   04-  --  4)-  04  I   tt  04  04   V)   C    04.    I   --4    I   ITS
to   to   04   0040400404              I to04    an           tot  to        -4   'C'   000404          040-00000   I a(-                404041104    to    to
ni  m   -  a 40410404 nOatC-   '--0,                                      a           04 04,--404u10 '-'04- 00440                     04  C0-C tar
to         10.04 CaC  C0-0-04  40           0,0404  4'-,  I            049    m    a1-Io      00410,03          C'.-    toO           tC'C'  I I0 I
Cl   -4   to    4         Ut       Cl  4 toO      lIt   04  tOrn-I           to   to        '--ai-l-0  0    0       0410      I-IC       0a00    1-41   (-4
0           to   C) a-ta-0C004               P      to-,    210             --.   a        04    OrO-  .0410    --an             to      -, 00   I '-'O
to n-C fi 0I044 04040, IA (0 aO.C, I Ito - 00 a 0404 a to a CI to
to   CCC   04-004010-a, 04            0    04 an--  r tot  -.4         n-J  -V            104    04   -i    0       U         4   (+000   Ito   I -4
141 to to 004-4 (Ij to 04 04-4 Ito C 2 a---.I--'C'- C 04 to a-Ow 04 I Ito
-    a, 10410-004404            --t       a  r a       -        to    0           0404 a-Ca-              a         a    mawr,  In
to 0 04 40404 04 (0- 404 Ito -4 to 04 C0 a.'-- Cr 0 n-I -400404 tO
to    0-00-,         ,          0     04        4               to    -I                0040-                04      --4       0a  -  Ito
C aaa  In                  2   a   Otto                                      OarOat-4             0   a,   04  0a   041
0404                04    0  I  1                                0404  4    04        -,   04        0    I'll-    10I  to
04   a,    040             0   a,    a  r 0                                 a,-                        tat      to    a,
rOta                0    n-  I to                                C'-                  to                   lAw    04
to    -                   0     04    a  I to                               r a         no       a              Cl   - 1   a
CaC'.         to              I to                               0404                 0              to       C'
I,          -'II          -           -- In                                  04         to       tO-             to   -040       C
-C         .--            to           -or  m                                a           04                      -1    Ca       0
an-C .4 -.4 I 04 to to -4 -'
n--c, m I - a n fl
Ct 1          to          04  t 04                                                     4                   004      a,
C         to          14  tOt                                            to       a                    04      04
to         --rn                                               -,       -o                   0404    a
C,             I -                                            04       04                   0        04
0              I                                              C'        0                   a,       04
I a                                                                          10     n
04             104                                            Va,      to                            a-
o              104                                            C'-      04                   -n       -n
-              I -S                                           C-       a                    04       04
-              I a-                                           -        04                   -4        I
104                                                                          9       04
to                              to to In                               2 2 2  2  to C04 222   to to to                 to to to to                II a
a  a    a  a Ca a                = a  a                                I) Cl Ia, CI C II CS C  11 Ca 04 04             CI 5) 1) C'                 It
04  <00-<-04-<             C'    04045                                                                I0-II           04(  - a
II                                                                        a a
I -4.0413041--               I I I                                 a-I I                                          C-04C'04
I     .4.0,1-404-0              04,04C-                              1-3                         It-Ito               I I I  I                                       30
II                  0
H
14                                                                                                                                                WI  04
I OtoCO1---a-                   I-to04                                a-I  I  I  I I I  I  I  I  I I                  I I I  I                                       C
H
C
c---4to1440404               04to4-                                a- I I  I  I 11111    I I                        I  I I  I                                         to
It                  Ha
14                                                                                                                                                                 1'1 to
CC- -4CC 1.04-.-1--             C04                                  t 1.041   1 I I  11111                          I  I I  I                    to  I                to
It 10
- cv to
0114C-                          53                                  tat                                                                           04  I
I 0140 .0.t411.41               .040.0.                                toto1010                                         .--a-..--                                    CC to a
HtoO
Ia               na, Io to                U,
04                           C-Ct                                   iitto-t,.               0
1JtotAtototot.4r3.0-t.a                      -0-04140                                          -4
tJcOot-.4I-.4                 000                                      0I-31--'--or-3Soa-ooo                        01000
'0                                                                        n
to C-S to 000                00  0                                   -4 0 0  10 t4 131 0  0  0  0  0 0             0 0 0 0                                            to
0 0 0 0 0 0                  000                                    In 00000000000                                  00 0
000 000                      000                                    0000000000 00    00 0
I     I                                                          1104  I    I                                                I                             II                  CO
It    I     I                                                           II    I     I                                                                                                   14
II '.1 It 04  I 04 I                                                         II a- I to I        to                   04              0  I       Ocat                                      H
II a-  I 0  I 0  I        V.) Ca 1-4 04           I                          II 1.41 I 04   04 0 0 14 tI-I IA to to to ,-3           -04 I to 04 10 0                                      H  n-)
II C- II 4.11>.) I       -e 14 0 IC 1.1          I                          II to  I to I to 0 0 04 04 04 9-4 13 a- 0                0  I 0 13 0 0                    IS 0  I             (3 --I
Ii - I - I                                   I                          It. I I.                   .               .               V . - -
a, ItOtotI    I to CK 0 0  0                   tIlt                       II 0  I 0  I Itl 0 0 tat I.fl to to 0  0  0  I I       to  I -a a 0 -a,                                      C-
111111
II r.a IS--I                                                            II    I    I                                -              I                             It
It    V.)  I    1.4  I                                     I
-C- It 1411411      14a141...4 1410404      Ca I 04to13                    II V.1113104                                to-a,           I                                                 IC
CS-ItO  I 01        t4--0t4 01.41-4         0  1000                        II 4011.411  rat                            00              I                                                 CC
II  -  I    I    -  -  -  .     .        .   I  -  -                    It  -  I  -  I  .                           -              I
toll tt- IC--I  I a-ca-COO                  124 1000                       1101  CO Ito  I I  I  I I I  I  I  100                   111111                                               It
It   II     I     I                                                          II    I     I                                               I                             It                  Cl
.4 1t1.JIS-I II I I tjt I 0410
0
14111.4  I a-I       0-COt,) 140404         Ca I 04totO                    II    I    I                                                                                 . I 0404
.4) It 141 I C-fl I    0  0 1.4 0 13 1.1    0  I 0 0  0                    It to  I .0- I to                                                                           0   I 04CC        
It. I I - - - - . I . - II. I . I - a- I
St I 0  I 0  I I C, -C.- CS- 0 0  0         0  I 0 0  0                   II Cit I 141 I to I I  I  lIt   11111                    I 4  I I I
lIlt                                                                    II  t  I                                                                                    WI -c,
.1   -I   14    I  I                                                      II    I     I                                                                               a-  I   004
Ill to   Ca I    01-41-4140404                 I l-tot-3                  II    I    I                                                                                    I
14 II to  I -I) I    14 -0 14 0 14 1-3      0  I 0 0  0                    II to  I to I to                                                                            0  I 0 04
.-II . I I
CCII to I -041 I totoo 000                  0 I 000                        II COt tOt Cat IlIltItIttI                               I 11111
It    I     I                                                           It    I    I                                               I                             II
411.4  lot                                  -  I                          Ira  Ito  I         to
11101  C.I I    r4-1-Q,.4C40404          010401-4                      110101              0
.0 II 0  I .0 I    14 0 1.4 0 1-4 1.1       0  I 0  0  0                   It 0  I 0  I        0
Il. I I - - - I. - It I
-C- II to I to  I t CC to CS- 0 0 0         0  I 0  0  0                   II 0  I 0  I I I 0  It   111111    I                     I I  I  I I
111-41104  I      I                                                          111-3101                                                    I                             II
It    I     I                                                           It  II  I  .
II 04  I  0 t    1-4 0404 0             C-A I    13                    rt to  r a  I       to                   04 C-           0 I        04 CIt
110  I tot    OtoUt  to04.a-             14 I toOto                     I a- I 1-3 t toOa-1..-4C-4IAtoto t-4 131-3-0            tot  to0400
1104 I 04,  Ut40 000    0 1000                                          1101 0104-COO 00131-Sc- .41CC    0, 01400
1    11 I I.- I -
3 II to  I to I I -- 0 0  0 0  0            0  I 0  0  0                  II 0  I to I to 0 0  C-Ct 1-It 141 0  0  0  0  0 0       0  I 0  0  0 0
rX
- - SJ



-60-
ANNEX 3
Table 8
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Fertilizers and Chemicals /a
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
Ouantith                                             (Kvats '000)
Unit 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 Total Unit Cost 83/84  84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   Total
/a
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. INVESTMENT COSTS
Urea              Ton       -   340   798   798   385  29321       2,051      -   697.3 1,636.7 1J636.7   789.6  4J760.4
TSP                Ton      -   303   709   709   342  2,063       1,755     -   531.8 1,244.3 1,244.3   600.2  3,620.6
HOP               Ton       -   116   272   272   132    792       1,022     -   118.6   278.0   278.0   134.9    809.4
Chemicals         Sum       -   399   934   934   452  2.719       1yOOO     -   399.0   ?34.0   934.0   452,0  2,719.0
Subt-Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                      - 1-746-7 4-093.0 4-093.0 1,976.7 11-909-4
Total  IN VESTMENT  COSTS                                                           - 1,746,7 4,093.0 4,093.0 1Y976.7 11,909.4
===== ------- ------- ------- ------- --------
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                 - 10746.7 4,093.0 4,093.0 1,976.7 11,909.4
/a Iniport Price, cit Rangoon at 1983 Prices: urea US$263 or K 2051/ton
TSP US$225 or K 1755/ton
HOP US$131 or K 1022/ton



-61-
BURMA                                                    ANNEX  3
6ROUNDUATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I                                       Table  9
Technical Assistance & Training
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
Quantity                                             (Kgats '000)
Unit 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 Total Unit Cost 83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87  87/88  Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
4-wheeled Dr. Vehicle                 No.      -      I     -      -     -      1   120,000       -   120.0         -       -       -   120.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                   -   120.0        -        -      -   120.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
I  SUBCONTRACT
Irrigation Agronomist            MW        -    12    12    12       -    36    93i600        - 1,123.2 1,123.2 1123.2        - 3P369.6
Groundwater Engineer              NM       1     -      -     -      -     1    93,600   93.6          -       -        -       -    93.6
Electrical Engineer               NM       1     -      -     -      -     1    93P600   93.6         -        -        -       -    93.6
Mechanical Engineer               NM       1     2      2     2      1     8    939600   93.6   187.2   187.2   187.2   93.6   748.8
Unspecified                       NIM      -     1      1     1      1     4    93,600        -    93.6    93.6    93.6   93.6   374.4
Sub-Total SUBCONTRACT                                                                        280.8 1,404.0 1.404.0 1,404.0  187.2 4,680.0
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                  280.8 1,404.0 1,404.0 1,404.0  187.2 4,680.0
B. TRAINING
1. Irrisation Department
Overseas Tour                     mm       3     3      3     3      -    12    31,000   93.0    93.0    930    93.0           -   372.0
Fellowships                      No,             -      -     -      -               -            -        -        -       -
Groundwater Engineer              mm       -    12      3     -      -    15    24,000        -   288.0    72.0         -       -   360.0
H2drogeologist                    Mm       -    12      3     -      -    15    24,000        -   288.0    72.0         -       -   360.0
Irrigation Alronoaist            MI        -    12      3     -      -    15    24,000        -   288.0    72.0         -       -   360.0
Sub-Total Irrigation Department                                                               93.0   957.0   30e.0    93,0         - 1,452,0
2. Agricultural Corporatiorn
Fellowships                       No             -      -     -      -               -            -        -        -       -           -
Subject Matter Sp. (cotton)       JIM      6     6      -     -      -    12    249000  144.0   144.0          -        -       -   288.0
Subject Matter Sp. (wheat)        Jmm      6     6      -     -      -    12    24,000  144.0   144.0          -        -       -   288.0
Subject Hatter Sp. (beans)        mm       6     6      -     -      -    12    24.000  144.0   144.0          -        -      -   288.0
Sub-Total Agricultural Corporation                                                           432.0   432.0        -        -       -   864.0
Sub-Total TRAINING                                                                              525.0 1,389.0   309.0    93.0         - 2,316.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                               805.8 2,793.0 1,713,0 1,497.0  187.2 6,996.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                 805.8 2,913.0 1Y713.0 1,497.0  187.2 7.116.0



-62-
ANNEX 3
Table  10
BURtIA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Project Evaluation
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
Quantity                                        (Kuats '000)
Unit 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 Total Unit Cost 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
______________ _
A. INVESTMENT COSTS
1. Vehicles                      No.        1     -     -     -      -      1   120,000  120.0      -      -     -     -  120.0
2. Office Esuipment
Typeuriter                    No.       2      -     -     -      -      2    25,000   50.0      -     -      -     -   50.0
Copier                        No.        1     -     -     -      -      1    25,000   25.0      -      -     -     -   45.0
Calculators                   No.      10      -     -     -      -     10     1,000   10.0      -     -      -     -   10.0
Miscellaneous                 Sue   5,000      -     -     -      -  5OOO         1    5.0      -     -      -     -    5.0
Sub-Total Office Esuipnat                                                                  90.0     -      -     -     -   90.0
Sub-Total INWESTMENT COSTS                                                                   210.0      -     -     -      -  210,0
Total INvESTMENT COSTS                                                                          210.0      -     -     -      -  210,0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATING COSTS
__ ____ ____ __
Vehicle ODh                     Sue        1     1     1      1     1      5    10000   10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0   50.0
B. SALARIES
Sample Surveyors                Sum        1     1     1      1     1      5     5,000    5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   25.0
Rural Sociolos  Surveyor         MY        1     1     1      1     1      5     4,800    4.8   4.8   4.8   4.8   4.8   24.0
Yield Surveyor                  Sum        1     1     1      1     1      5     5,000    5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   25.0
Sub-Total SALARIES                                                                           14.8  14.8  14.8  14,8  14.8   74,0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                            24.8  24.8  24.8  24.B  24.8  124.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                             234.8  24.8  24.8  24.8  24.8  334.0
=====i      -----   -----   -----===   ------



-63-
BURMA                                                          ANNEX  3
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I                                              aNNe  3
Schedule  of Expenditures
Base Costs
(Kyats Millilon)                     Freian Exchange
53/94 84/,85 95/86 86/97 87/89 Total                   %      Amount
1T INVESTMENT COSTS
A. BUILDING AND CIVIL WORKS
Trr:3ationr                                                                    2.20  5.62 19.67 10.29  5.30   34.08                    OD0   0.90
Power SuPF'Y                                                                      -  0.99  0.65  0.54  0.19    2.19                    0.5    0.01
Agriculture                                                                    0.74      -      -     -      -    0.74                09    0.00
Sub-Total BUILDING AND CIVIL WORKS                                                2.94  6.42 11.33 10.93  5.49   37.01                    0.0    0.91
B. ElUIPMENT, MATERIALS. AND SPARES
E3uipment for Wells                                                            8.47  9.81  0.13  0.13  0.06   18.60                   73.1   13.59
Esuipsent for Power SUFPIY Sastee                                                 - 33.23  2.06  1.54  0.52   37.34                   54.2   20.23
Irrisation Dept, E.quipeent                                                       - 13.63  9.95  9.05  90,5   13.78                   69.5    9.57
A4ricultur2l Eauipment                                                         0.35  0.23  9.00  0.09        -    0.59                80.3    0.47
Fert.:1zer and Chemicals                                                          -  1.?5  4.09  4,09  1.98   11.91                  199.0   11.91
Eeuireent for Project Evaluation                                               0.09      -     -      -      -    0.09                37.8    0.03
Vehlcles                                                                       0.68  4.14      -      -  0.48    5.30                 68.8    3.65
Sub-Tctal E0UIPMENT9 MATERIALS, AND SPARES                                        9.60 62.78  6.34  5.81  3.08   87.62                   67.9   59.46
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                               12.54 69.21 17.67 16.64  8.57  124.63                  47.7   59.4?
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATIONS I MAINTENANCE
0tM of Cornstructed Uorks                                                        -  0.22  0.82  1.98  3.09    6.11                   38.8    2.3?
Agriculture  DIM                                                                 -  0.07  0.07  9.07  9.11    0.32                    0.0    0.00
Evaluation OM                                                                0.01  0.91  9.01  9.01  0.91   0.5                    890.0    0.04
Sub-Total OPERATIONS S MAINTENANCE                                               0.01  0.39  0.90  2.06  3.21    6.48                   37.2    2.41
B. ADMINISTRATIVE AND GENERAL EXPENSES
1. SALARIES
Irrig, Dent.                                                               0.38  1.13  1.13  1.13  1.13    4.90                   0.0    0.90
Agric. Corp.                                                               0.11  0.15  0.17  9.18  0.18    0.78                   0.0    0.00
Electric Power Corp,                                                       0.20  0.10  9.10  0.10  9.10    0.60                   0.0    0.00
Universita-EconoMic Dent.                                                  0.91  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01    0.07                   0.0    0.00
Sub-Total SALARIES                                                            0.70  1.40  1.41  1.43  1.43    6.36                    0.0    0.00
Sub-Total Al!MINISTRATIVE ANIt GENERAL EXPENSES                                  0.70  1.40  1.41  1.43  1,43    6.36                    0.0    0.00
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE I TRAINING
EDsatriate/Consultant                                                         0.20  1.40  1.40  1.40  0.19    4.68                  90.0    4.21
Osveaeas Trairnirsg                                                           0.53  1.39  0.31  0.09       -    2.32               100.0    2.32
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE I TRAINING                                        0.81  2.79  1,71  1.50  0.19    7.00                   93.3    i,53
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                 1.52  4.49  4.03  4.98  4.82   19.83                  45.1    8.94
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                  14.05 73.70 21.69 21.62 13.39  144.46                  47.4   69.41
Physical Contingencies                                                             0.89  2.54  1.90  1.75  1.04    8.00                   20.2    1.62
Price Contingencies                                                                0.49  7.98  2.93  4.13  3.31   18.85                   49.7    9.38
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                   15.43 84.22 26.42 27.50 17.74  171.31                  46.3   79.40
= = == == = == == = == == = == z== == == == = ==   = == == = == == == = =
Tases                                                                              2.19 21.eO  9.95  0.04  0.24   24.33                    0.9    0.00
Foreign Eschange                                                                   9.13 50.10  7.38  7.99  4.81   79.40                    0.0    0.00



-64-
ANNEX 3
Table 12
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Proposed Allocation of the Credit
Amount
Allocated           % of Expenditures
Category              US$ M Equivalent          to be Financed
I.  Civil Works                   3.0         50% of local expenditures
II.  Material, Equipment           9.7         100% of foreign expenditures
and Vehicles                              for directly imported items.
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory) for locally manu-
factured items, and 75% of other
local expenditures for locally
procured items.
ITI. Consultancy Services
and Overseas Training        1.0          100% of expenditures for con-
sulants and an irrigation agro-
nomy expert, and 100% of overseas
training costs.
IV.  Unallocated                   0.3
Total            14.0
1/ Including expected price increases.



-65-                      ANNEX  3
Table 13
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ M Equivalent)
Accumulated
IDA Fiscal Year                     Disbursements               Disbursements
and  Semester                           US$ M                      US$ M
1984
1                                  0.4                       0.4
2                                  0.9                        1.3
1985
1                                  1.2                       2.5
2                                  3.2                        5.7
1986
1                                  3.2                       8.9
2                                   1.3                     10.2
1987
1                                  1.3                      11.5
2                                   1.0                     12.5
1988
1                                  0.6                      13.1
2                                  0.6                      13.7
1989
1                                  0.3                      14.0



-66-
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Draft Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services
Introduction
1       The World Bank Agricultural Sector Mission in 1977 reported that suitable
conditions for groundwater development exist in the central dry zone of Burma. In
view of Burma's lack of experience in large scale irrigation from groundwater, the
Government of Burma (GOB), UNDP and the Bank decided in 1978 to include a
Groundwater Exploration and Pilot Development Sub-project ("the Pilot Phase")
under a UNDP Technical Assistance Project (Burma Umbrella Project), for which the
Bank is the Executing Agency.  The Irrigation Department (ID) has carried out the
Pilot Phase with assistance of a team of consultants (Groundwater Development
Consultants, UK) contracted by the Bank. Work started in November 1978 and four
years of exploration and pilot development resulted in the identification and
preparation of the Groundwater Irrigation Project I.
2       During the Pilot Phase, consultancy services were provided to ID in many
aspects. In addition to carrying out surveys and feasibility studies, the con-
sultants gave on-the-job training to ID personnel particularly in drilling, logis-
tic support, hydrogeology, irrigation design and agro-economic data collection,
together with a number of training courses and provisions of manuals. As a
result., a Drilling Division and a Civil Engineering Division were established and
now are capable of carrying out most aspects of the Groundwater Irrigation Project
on their own. Certain specific consultancy services, however, are still required
in implementing this project.
Irrigation Agronomy Consultant
3.      The most important consultancy services required would be that of an
irrigation agronomy consultant for three years to assist in water management
aspects of the project. The consultant would be stationed in Monywa and have the
following duties:
(a) in collaboration with the cotton research at Meiktila and
with the assistance of the Farm Manager at Kyehmon, conduct
applied research on irrigated cotton, wheat and mung beans
to formulate specific agronomic recommendations for irri-



-67-
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
gated crops within the project area;
(b) check field application efficiencies obtained and advise
on improved techniques;
(c) give recommendations on basin sizes and layout design;
(d) set up and monitor rotation systems;
(e) set up and monitor irrigation scheduling and interval
criteria and collection of rainfall data;
(f)  measure conveyance losses and suggest measures for
improvements;
(g) calculate distance compensation factors;
(h) use monitoring data to calculate depths of irrigation
applied and make recommendations for improvements;
(i) observe in-field irrigation techniques and recommend
improvements;
(j) set up monitoring of water table, salinity and soil chemistry
and identify any potential problems and recommend action
required;
(k) observe operation of drainage systems both under irrigated
and rainfed conditions, and recommend actions required;
(1) evaluate deterioration in land levels and recommend
appropriate actions;
(m) liaise with the water-user groups and other institutions
involved in irrigation management and recommend any
improvements to institutional arrangements;
(n) liaise with and assist the monitoring and evaluation team;l/
(o) produce quarterly reports on progress and observations;
(p) liaise with SMSs and assist them with the demonstration
plots and demonstration program;
(q) organize training programs both in Burma and overseas; and
(r) supervise the 10 ac Irrigation Department experimental farms
at Shaukka.
Other Engineering Consultants
4.      Two consultants (Groundwater Engineer and Electrical Engineer) would be
engaged (2.0 manmonths in total) to assist ID in tender evaluation of the follow-
ing categories of equipment:
(a) drilling ancillaries and spares;
(b) casing and screen;
1/ A team appointed by the Project Impact Evaluation Coramittee. This
team would consist of stAff from the Agricultural Corporation, the
Project Appraisal and Progress Reporting Department of the Ministry of
Planning and Finance, and the Institute of Economics, Rangoon.



-68-
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
(c) pumping units for new wells;
(d) electric motors and gearboxes for existing wells; and
(e) power transmission and transformation equipment.
5.      In addition consultancy services would be required to assist ID with
mechanical maintenance of the drilling equipment, workshop procedures, store
inventories and other mechanical matters. 8.0 manmonths of a Mechanical Engineer
and 4.0 manmonths of unspecified engineering consultancy services are provided.
Composition and Duration of Services
6.      Consultants would be required from end-1983 to mid-1986, and their duty
station would be Rangoon and/or Monywa. They would report to the Project Director
for the Groundwater Irrigation Project. An estimated 50.0 manmonths of services
will be required with the following breakdown:
Manmonths
Irrigation Agronomy Expert                                36.0
Mechanical Engineer                                        8.0
Groundwater Engineer                                       1.0
Electrical Engineer                                        1.0
Unspecified                                                4.0
Total                                 50.0
All the above consultants are expected to be provided from an internationally
reputable consulting firm.



-69-                                ANNEX 5
Table 1
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Farmgate Prices Used In Farm Budget and Economic Analysis
(Projected for 1990 at 1983 Price Levels)
Financial       Economic
Crops                                          Unit          Price           Price
Seedcotton                                    K/ton          3,673 1/        6,852 1/
Wheat                                           "            2,082 T/         2,138 T/
Pedishwewa (Mung Bean)                          "            1,224 T/         2,699 1/
Sesame                                          "            4,898 T/        5,390 T/
Groundnut                                       "            3,306 I/         3,234 1/
Kalape (Chickpea)                                            2,017 2/         1,614 3/
Fodder Sorghum                                  "            1,971           1,577
Fertilizers
Urea                                                           400 1/         3,330 1/
TSP                                             "            1,284 T/        2,557 1/
MOP                                                             638 T/        1,608 1/
Farm Yard Manure                              K/Cartload        10                8 3/
Other Inputs
Human Labor                                   K/Manday        8.00             6.40 3/
Animal Labor (Including Handler)              K/Pair-day    16.00             12.80 3/
Tractor - Ploughing                           K/ac           19.00           39.00 4/
Tractor - Barrowing                           K/ac           13.00           26.65 4/
Petrol (Average of Rangoon and Monywa)        K/Imp.Gal.      4.45             9.13 4/
Diesel (Average of Rangoon and Monywa)        K/Imp.Gal.      3.15             6.46 4/
Road Transport, Long Distance
(Wheat, Pulses)                             K/ton-mile      0.50            0.53 5/
Road Transport, Long Distance
(Fertilizer)                                K/ton-mile      0.65            0.68 5/
Fodder Values 6/                                   Rainfed                    Irrigated
Financial   Economic    Financial   Economic
Price       Price        Price        Price
Wheat Straw                           K/ac       48          38 3/         163          130 3/
Pedishwewa Straw                        "        50          40 3/        288          230 3/
Sesame Straw                            "        18          14 3/         -            -
Groundnut Straw                         "       105          84 T/         -            -
Kalape (Chick pea) Straw                        138         110 3/         -            -
Fodder Sorghum                          "       576         461 3/         -            -
1/  See ANNEX 5, Table 2a-2f.
2/  Weighted Average of prices sold to cooperatives, military and open market.
3/ Adjusted by SCF of 0.8.
4/ Adjusted by CF of 2.05.
5/ Adjusted by CF of 1.05.
6/ Calculation of Fodder Values - With and Without Project
Ratio of
Fodder          Crop          Fodder      Value of
Value of          Output         Yield          Yield        Fodder
Fodder as        To Yield       Per Acre       Per Acre      Output
% of Oil-        _Weight        _ (kg)         _ (kg)        Per Acre
Crop            Cake Value 1/   W       W       W     W        W      W      W       W
Wheat                6.7          2.0    1.5    327  1,470    654  2,205   47n   -163
Pedishwewa          20.0          2.0    2.0    113    653    226  1,306    50    288
Sesame              10.0          2.0    2.0      81    -        162    -       18    -
Groundnut           20.0          1.5    1.5    318    -        477    -       105    -
Kalape              20.0          2.0    2.0    313    -        626    -       138    -
Fodder Sorghum 2/  115.0          n/a    n/a    -        -    3,494    -       576    -
1/  Oil-cake value assumed at KR.10/kg.
2/  Sorghum is grown principally as a fodder crop.



-70-                                        ANNEX 5
Table 2a
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Price Derivation: Wheat
(Projected for 1990 at 1983 Price Levels)
Cost
Recovery   Economic   Financial
Margin       Price       Price
1.  (a)  World Market Price, Current 1/             (US$/ton)         323          323         -
(b)  World Market Price, Constant 1983          (US$/ton)         210         210         -
2.  Quality Differential 2/                         (US$/ton)      -   32      -   32          -
3.  International Transport                         (US$/ton)      +   88      +   88          -
4.  cif Rangoon (Import Price)                      (US$/ton)          266         266         -
5.  cif Rangoon (Import Price) 3/                   ( K/ton)        2,075       2,075          -
6. Transport Costs, Rangoon to Consumption Point
(assumed to be Mandalay - 425 miles from
Rangoon at KO.50/ton mile)                      (  K/ton)      +  213      +  224 4/      -
7. Handling and Storage Costs, Rangoon to
Consumption Point (2xK5 + 2.5% of cif value)(  K/ton)          +   62      +   50 5y'     -
8.  Value of Wheat at Consumption Point             (  K/ton)       2,350        2,349         _
9. Transport Costs, Monywa to Consumption Point
(assumed to be Mandalay - 90 miles at
KO.50/ton mile)                                 (  K/ton)      -   45      -   47 4/      -
10. Handling and Storage Costs, Monywa to Consumption
Point (Mandalay) (2xK5 + 2.5% cif value)        ( K/ton)       -   62      -   50 5/      -
11. Bagging Costs, Monywa (K6.20/50 kg bag)         (  K/ton)      -  124      -   99 5/       -
12. Value of Wheat at Monywa                        (  K/ton)       2,119       2,153          -
13. Transport and Handling, Farmgate to Monywa
(2xK5 + 10 miles at KO.50/ton mile)             ( K/ton)       -   15      -   15 6/      -
14. (a)  Farmgate Value                             (  K/ton)       2,104       2,138       2,082
(b)  ------do ------(   K/lb)                                    0,95        0.97        0.94
(c)        do      -                            (K/Basket)      68.73       69.84       68.00
15. (a)  Procurement Price (Average)                (  K/ton)       1,837         -           -
(b)  --          do-------------                (   K/lb)        0.83         -           -
(c)  -----------do              -               (K/Basket)      60.00         -           -
16.  Cost Recovery Margin                           (  K/ton)         267         -            -
1/  Western Red Spring (CWRS), in store, Thunder Bay, 1990 projected price at 1983 prices,
July 1982.
2/ Assures Burmese production worth 15% less than CWRS No. 1.
3/  At OER of K7.8   US$1.0.
4/ Transport cost adjusted by CF of 1.05.
5/ Adjusted by SCF of 0.8.
6/ Transport cost adjusted by CF of 1.05, all other costs adjusted by SCF of 0.8.



-71-
ANNEX 5
Table 2b
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Price Derivation: Cottonseed
(Projected for 1990 at 1983 Price Levels)
Cost
Recovery       Economic
Margin          Price
A. Palm Oil (Cottonseed Oil Substitute)
1.  World Market Price 1/               (Current)        (US$/ton)           987            987
2.  Adjusted for Cottonseed Oil 2/ (Constant 1983)(US$/ton)                  641            641
3.  Transport Differential                                                   596            596
4.  Import Price, cif Rangoon                            (US$/ton)       -   20         -   20
5.               do ---          3/                     (  K/ton)           576            576
6.  Port Charges, Stevedoring and Loading                (  K/ton)         4,493          4,493
7.  Transport and Handling, Port to Processing Plant                     +  225         +  180 4/
(Mahlaing, 300 miles from Rangoon)                   (  K/ton)      +  180         +  230 -7
8.  Palm Oil Price, Ex-processing Plant                  (  K/ton)        4,898           4,903
B. Cottonseed Expeller
9.  World Market Price 6/               (Current)        (US$/ton)           416            416
10. --------do                          (Constant 1983)(US$/ton)             270            270
11. Transport Differential                                               -   18         -   18 4/
12. Export Price, cif Rangoon                            (US$/ton)           252            252
13. -     --    do         ---- 3/                      (  K/ton)         1,966          1,966
14. Transport and Handling-Processing Plant (Mahlaing)
to Rangoon                                           (  K/ton)       -  180         -  230 5/
15. Cottonseed Expeller-Ex-processing Plant              (  K/ton)         1,786          1,736 -
C. Gross Value of Cottonseed, Ex-processing Plant
16. (a)  Oil (16%)                                       (  K/ton)           784            784
(b)  Expeller (42%)                                  (  K/ton)          750            729
1 ,534         1,513
17. Cost of Processing                                   (  K/ton)       -   50         -   40 4/
18. Transport from Ginnery (Monywa) to Processing
Plant (Mahlaing 7/                                   (  K/ton)       -  100         -  137 8/
19. Net Value of Cottonseed, Ex-ginnery                  (  K/ton)        1,384           1,336
20. Value of Cottonseed Portion of Seedcotton(60%)(  K/ton)                  830            802
21. -----do----------- (  K/ lb)                                           0.38           0.36
1/  Malaysia, 5% bulk, cif Northwest Europe in 1990, IBRD, July 1982
2/  Factor of 0.93, Table 3, Page 198 of Price Prospects for Major
Pricing Commodities, Volume II, July 1982.
3/  At OER of K7.8 = US$1.0.
T/ Adjusted by a SCF of 0.8
SI  Handling 2x15 x SCF (0.8) = 24, Transport 300 mi at ICO.50 x SCF of 1.37
for long distance road transport = 206, Total 230.
6/ cif Northwest Europe in 1990, IBRD, July 1982.
7/ 200 miles at KO.50.
8/ For economic price, CF of 1.37 was used.



-72-                                    ANNEX 5
Table 2c
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Price Derivation: Cotton
(Projected for 1990 at 1983 Price Levels)
Cost
Recovery   Economic  Financial
Margin      Price      Price
1.  Cotton Lint cif Europe 1/ (Current)         (US$/ton)        3,650      3,650        -
2.- do -----                    (Constant 1983)(US$/ton)         2,370       2,370       -
3.  Transport Differential                                      +  110     +  110        -
4.  Import Price, cif Rangoon                   (US$/ton)        2,480       2,480       -
5 -do--- 2/                                     ( K/ton)        19,344      19,344       -
6.  Port Charges, Stevedoring and Loading 3/ ( K/ton)           +  774     +  619 4/    -
7.  Handling and Transport - Port to Mill TMeiktila) 5/
(2xK12 handling + 360 miles at KO.80/ton mile)(K/ton)   +  312         +  322 6/    -
8.  Value at Mill                               ( K/ton)        20,430     20,285        -
9.  Handling and Transport - Ginning/Bailing Center
(Monywa) to Mill (2xK12 Handling + 180 miles at
KO.80/ton mile)                              ( K/ton)      -  168      -  170 6/    -
10. Price of Lint - Ex-ginnery                   (  K/ton)      20,262     20,115        -
Value of Seedcotton, Ex-ginnery 7/
15. (a)  Lint (35%)                                              7,092      7,040        -
(b)  Cotton Seed (60%) 8/                                     830         829 4/    _
7,922      7,869        -
16. Ginning Cost, Transport and Handling from
Collection Center to Ginnery 9/                            -1,269      -1,017 6/    -
17. Farmgate Value of Seedcotton                ( K/ton)         6,653      6,852      4,469
----------- do      -                     ( K/ lb)          3.02        3.11       2.03
--do -------               -               ( K/viss)        10.87      11.19       7.30 10/
18. GOB (TIC) Procurement Price                 ( K/ton)         4,286         -         _
---------do  ---------                        K/ lb)         1.94        -          _
------------do           ---               ( K/viss)          7.00        -          -
19, Cost Recover~y Margin                       (  K/ton)        2,367        -          -
1/  Mexican origin 8M-1-1/16' cif Northern Europe, 1990 projected price, IBRD, July 1982.
2/  At OER of K7.8 = US$1.0.
3t 4% of cif value.
4/ Adjusted with SCF of 0.8.
5/ Bales are transported from Monywa to various TIC mills but mostly to its
main mill in Meiktila, 180 miles from Monywa and 360 miles from Rangoon
6/  Transport costs adjusted by CF of 1.05, all other local costs by SCF of 0.8.
7/  Based on actual Monywa ginning outturn - 35% lint, 6% seed, 5% waste -
the seed producing less than 10% oil.
8/  See ANNEX 5, Table 2b.
9/  Ginning costs: K1,245/ton, handling: 2xK10, Transport: 5 miles at KO.8/ton mile.
10/ Weighted average of open market and procurement prices of L.S. cotton.



-73-                          ANNEX 5
Table 2d
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Price Derivation: Mung Bean (Pedishwewa)
(Projected for 1990 at 1983 Price Levels)
Cost
Recovery Economic Financial
Margin     Price      Price
1.  (a) World Market Price of Soybean
(current) 1/                            (US$/ton)       619       619        -
(b) World Market Price of Soybean
(constant 1983)                         (US$/ton)       402       402        -
2.  Export Price of Mung Bean, fob Rangoon 2/ (US$/ton)          413      413         -
3.  Export Price, fob Rangoon 3/                 (  K/ton)    3,221    3,221          -
4.  Transport - Monywa to Rangoon
(515 miles at KO.50/ton mile)               ( K/ton)   -  258   -  271 4/         -
5.  Handling and Storage Charges (2xK5)          ( K/ton)   -   10   -    8 5/        -
6.  Administrative Costs 6/                      ( K/ton)   -  161   -  129 5/        -
7.  Bagging costs (K6.20/50 kg bag)              ( K/ton)   -  124   -   99 T/        -
8.  Value at Monywa                              ( K/ton)    2,668    2,714           -
9.  Transport and Handling, Farmgate to Monywa
(2xK5 + 10 miles at KO.50/ton miles)        ( K/ton)   -   15   -   15 7/         -
10.  (a) Farmgate Value                           ( K/ton)    2,653    2,699         1,224 8/
(b) ------do------                          ( K/ lb)       1.20      1.22        0.56 8/
(c) ------do ------                         (K/Basket)   86.67    88.17        40.00 8/
11.  (a) AFPTC Procurement Prices                 (  K/ton)    1,224       -           -
(b) ----------do ------------               ( K/ lb)       0.56       -           -
(c) ----------do ------------               (K/Basket)   40.00        -           -
12.  Cost Recovery Margin                         (  K/ton)    1,429       -           -
1/ IBRD projection, July 1982.
2/  World market price of soybean x 1,027 (based on actual ratios in 1980-81).
3/ At OER of K7.8 = US$1.0.
4/ Transport costs adjusted by CF of 1.05.
5/ Adjusted by SCF of 0.8.
6/ 5% of fob value.
7/ Transport costs adjusted by CF of 1.05, all other costs adjusted by SCF of 0.8.
8/ Reported open market and procurement prices are similar.



74-
ANNEX 5
Table 2e
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Price Derivation: Groundnutsand Sesame
(Projected for 1990 at 1983 Price Levels)
Groundnut             Sesame
Econ.    Fin.      Econ.    Fin.
Price    Price    Price    Price
1.  World Market Price of Shelled
Groundnut 1/ (Current)                      (US$/ton)   1,014        -         -         -
2.            do            (Constant 1983)   (US$/ton)         658       -         -         -
3.  Import Price, cif Rangoon                   (US$/ton)       658       -         -         -
4.               do---- 2/                      (  K/ton)   5,132         -         -         -
5.  Port Charges, Stevedoring and Loading 3/(  K/ton)   + 226             -         -         -
6.  Transport and Handling, Port to Factory
in Monywa 4/                                             + 286       -         -         -
7.  Ex-factory Price                            (  K/ton)   5,644         -         -         -
8.  Packing and Handling 5/                     (  K/ton)   - 164         -         -         -
9.  Transport, Storage, Handling Losses-
Farmgate to Factory 6/                      (  K/ton)   -  90        -         -         -
10. Farmgate Price:  (a) Shelled Nuts           (  K/ton)   5,390        -       5,390 7/ 4,898
(b) -    do-----         (   K/lb)    2.45        -        2.45 7/  2.22
(c) -----do -----        (K/Basket)  61.14        -         132 7/   120
11. (a) Farmgate Price:  Unshelled Nuts         (  K/ton)   3,234    3,086          -         -
(60%)
12. (b)         do                              (   K/lb)    1.47        1.40
13. (c)         do           -                  (K/Basket)  36.68    35.00
1/  Any origin, shelled, cif Europe - 1990, IBRD, July 1982.
71  At OER of K7e8 = US$1.0.
7/  5.5% of cif value x SCF of 0.8.
4/ Handling K20/ton, adjusted by SCF of 0.8, + transport 515 miles at KO.50,
adjusted by CF of 1.05.
5/  4% of cif value x SCF of 0,8.
6/  2% of ex-factory price x SCF of 0.8.
7i  Assumed to equal economic farmgate price of shelled groundnuts.



BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Price Derivation: Fertilizers
(Projected for 1990 at 1983 Price Levels)
U R E A                     T S P                        M O P
Cost Rec.  Econ.      Fin.  Cost Rec.  Econ.    Fin.  Cost Rec.   Econ.    Fin.
Margin    Price    Price   Margin    Price   Price   Margin          Price   Price.
1.  Projected World Market Price  (Current)          (US$/ton)   450 1/   450 1/    -          331 2/   331 3/    -          187 3/   187 3/    -
2.  ------------do ------      --  (Constant 1983) (US$/ton)   292         292       -        215       215        -        121       121       -
3.  Ocean Freight and Insurances 4/                  (US$/ton) +  73    +  73         -      +  54    +  54         -     +  30    +  30         -
4.  Import Price, cif Rangoon                        (US$/ton)   365        365        _       269       269        -        151       151       -
5.  -----------do ------------                       (  K/ton) 2,847    2,847          -     2,098    2,098         -      1,178    1,178        -
6. Transport, Rangoon to Monywa
(515 miles at KO.65/ton mile)                    (  K/ton) + 335    + 352 6/    -        + 335    + 352 6/    -       + 335    + 352 6/    -
7. Handling, Storage and Administration cost
(2xK5 + 4% of cif value)                         (  K/ton) + 124    +  99 7/    -        +  94    +  75 7/    -       +  57    +  46 7/    -
8.  Cost of Fertilizer at Monywa                     (  K/ton) 3,306    3,298         360    2,527    2,525    1,244    1,570    1,576          598
9.  -------------do-------------                     (   K/lb)  1.50       1.50      0.16     1.15      1.15      0.56      0.71     0.72      0.27
10. -------------do------------- 8/                  (  K/bag) 82.70    80.00       9.00    126.4    131.6    62.20    78.50    78.80    29.90
11. Transport and Handling, Monywa to Farmgate 9/               +  40    +  32 7/ +  40    +  40    +  32 7/ +  40    +  32    +  32 7/ +  40
12. Farmgate cost                                    ( K/ton) 3,346    3,330         400    2,567    2,557    1,284    1,610    1,608           638
13. ------ do-----(   K/lb)  1.52                                          1.51     0.18      1.16      1.16      0.58      0.73     0.73      0.29
14. ------do -----                                   (  K/bag) 83.70    83.25    10.00    128.4    127.9    64.20    80.50    80.40    31.90
15. Government Selling Price                         (  K/ton)   360         -        -      1,244        -         -        598       -         -
16. -----------do -----------(   K/lb)  0.16                                 -         -      0.56        -         -       0.27       -         -
17. -----------do -----------                        (  K/bag)  9.00         -        -      62.20        -         -     29.90        -         -
18. Government Subsidy                               (  K/ton) 2,986         -        -      1,323        -         -      1,012       -         -
1/ fob Europe, bagged, IBRD, July 1982.
V/ fob US Gulf, IBRD, July 1982.
3/  fob Vancouver, IBRD, July 1982.
4/  25% of fob prices.
at OER of K7.8 = US$1.0.
6/  Adjusted by long distance road transport, CF of 1.05.                                                                                              " >
7/  Adjusted by SCF of 0.8.                                                                                                                           *
8/ Urea: 25 kg bag, TSP: 50 kg bag, MOP: 50 kg bag.
9/ Fertilizers are normally collected by the farmer using a bullock cart.
An average journey of 5 miles, at K8.0/ton mile.



-76-
ANNEX 5
Table 3
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Least Cost Analyses for Power Source
(K '000)
Electric Pumping                     Gas Pumping
Capital  Recurrent              Capital  Recurrent
Year                  Cost       Cost       Total      Cost       Cost       Total
1                   6,575        -        6,575      2,610        -       2,610
2                   6,575        -        6,575      2,610        -        2,610
3                   6,575        -        6,575      2,610        -        2,610
4                   6,575      3,412      9,987      2,610      6,642     9,252
5                     -        3,412      3,412        -        6,642      6,642
6                     -        3,412      3,412        -        6,642      6,642
7                     -        3,412      3,412        -        6,642      6,642
8                     -        3,412      3,412        -        6,642      6,642
9                     -        3,412      3,412        -        6,642      6,642
10                     -        3,412      3,412        -        6,642      6,642
11                     -        3,412      3,412      9,165      6,642    15,807
12                     -        3,412      3,412        -        6,642      6,642
13                     -        3,412      3,412        -        6,642      6,642
14                   2,892      3,412      6,304        -        6,642      6,642
15                     -        3,412      3,412        -        6,642      6,642
16                     -        3,412      3,412        -        6,642      6,642
17                     -        3,412      3,412        -        6,642     6,642
18                     -        3,412      3,412      9,165      6,642    15,807
19                     -        3,412      3,412        -        6,642     6,642
20                     -        3,412      3,412        -        6,642      6,642
21                     -        3,412      3,412        -        6,642      6,642
22                     -        3,412      3,412        -        6,642      6,642
23                     -        3,412      3,412        -        6,642      6,642
24                     -        3,412      3,412        -        6,642      6,642
NPV at 5%              65,692                                      96,584
8%              53,884                                     73,098
10%              48,152                                     61,922
15%              38,343                                     43,389
20%              32,285                                     32,562
Equalizing Discount Rate: 20%



ANNEX 5
Table 4
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Build-up Assumptions for Economic Analyses
A. Irrigated Land Build-up ('000 ac)
------------------------------Project Year-------------------------------
1-2    3     4      5      6     7      8     9      10    11    12    13    14
New Wells            0    1.7   5.5    9.9  13.4  14.9  15.9  16.5  16.9  17.3  17.6  17.7  17.8
Improved Wells       0      0    2.0    2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0
Total            0    1.7   6.5   11.9  15.4  16.9  17.9  18.5  18.9  19.3  19.6  19.7  19.8
B. Yield Build-up (%)
--------------Year After First Planting-----------------
1     2     3      4     5      6      7     8      9    10
With Project                60    70    80    90   100   100   100   100   100   100
Without Project             90    90    90    90    90    92    94    96    98   100
C. Input Build-up (%)
----------Year After First Planting----------
1     2     3      4     5      6     7      8
With Project                      75    85    90   100   100   100   100   100
Without Project                   90    90    90    92    94    96    98   100



BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Crop Budgets Per Acre at Full Development
(Financial Prlces at 1983 Price Levels)
Irrig.   Rainfed  Rainfed  Rainfed
Rainfed   Irrig.  Rainfed   Irrig.   Irrig.  Rainfed   Irrig.   Irrig.   Mung    Ground-   Chick   Fodder
Sesame   Sesame   Cotton   Cotton   Cotton   Wheat    Wheat    Wheat    Beans    nuts            peas    Sorghum
Unit         w        w                            w         w              w                       w w                 w
Yields         ton        0.081     0.245   0.131    0.340    0.653    0.327    0.600    1.470    0.653    0.318    0.313    0.050
Price          k/ton     4,898      4,898   3,673    3,673    3,673    2,082    2,082    2,080    1,224    3,306    2,017    1,971
Fodder Value  kyats         18         54       -         -        -         48        88      163       288       105       138       576
Gross Income  kyats        415      1,254      481    1,249    2,398        729    1,337    3,224    1,087    1,156          769       675
Seed: Rate    kg/ac      4.5        4.5      31.8     20.0      13.6      45.5      45.5     45.5      9.0       32.0      21.0      36.3
Price   k/kg       5.39       5.39    4.04      4.04      4.04     2.29      2.29      2.29      1.35      3.64     2.22      0.24
Cost    kyats         24         24     128        81        55      104       104       104        12       116        47         9
Urea: Rate    kg/ac      0          56.0    0          56.0     110.0    0          45.0     110.0    14.0       0         0         0
Price   k/kg       0.40       0.40    0.40      0.40      0.40     0.40      0.40      0.40      0.40      0.40     0.40      0.40
Cost   kyats       0             22   0            22        44    0            18        44         6    0         0         0
TSP: Rate    kg/ac       0          27.0    0          35.0     70.0      0         45.0     110.0    28.0       0         0         0                1
Price   k/kg       1.28      1.28    1.28       1.28      1.28     1.28      1.28      1.28      1.28     1.28      1.28      1.28
Cost    kyats      0             35   0           45        90     0            58       141        36    0         0         0
MOP: Rate    kg/ac       0          23.0    0          0        40.00    0          0        40.0      0         0         0         0
Price   k/kg       0.64      0.64    0.64       0.64      0.64     0.64      0.64      0.64      0.64      0.64     0.64      0.64
Cost   kyats       0             15   0         0            26    0         0            26    0          0        0         0
FYM: Rate    kg/ac        0         0        0         1.0      1.0       0         0        1.n       0         0         1.5       0.5
Price   k/kg          10        10       10        10        10       10        10        10        10        10       10        10
Cost    kyats      0          0       0            10        10    0         0            10    0          0            15         5
Chemical Cost kyats      0          0       0           116       232    0          0        42.0      0         0         0         0
Bullock: Days Pairdays  9.0         11.0    8.0       17.0      18.0      20.0      25.0     27.0      15.0      9.0       9.0       9.0
Price k/day         16        16       16        16        16       16        16        16        16       16        16        16
Cost kyats        144       176      128       272       288      320       400       432      240       144       144       144
Human  : Days Mandays   11.0        24.0    17.0      47.0      49.0      28.0     30.0      32.0      20.0      11.0      10.0     10.0
Price k/day          8          8       8         8         8         8        8         8         8         8         8        8
Cost kyats         88       192      136       376       392      224       240       256      160        88        80        80
Total Costs   kyats         256       464      392       922    1,137       648       820    1,013       454       348       286       238
Net Return    kyats        159        790       89       327    1,261        81       517    2,211       633       808       483       437
w  Future with Project.
w Future without Project.



BUtRMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Crop Budgets Per Acre at Full Development
(Economic Prices at 1983 Price Levels)
Irrig.   Rainfed   Rainfed   Rainfed
Rainfed   Irrig.   Rainfed   Irrig.   Irrig.   Rainfed   Irrig.   Irrig.   Mung             Ground-    Chick-   Fodder
Sesame   Sesame    Cotton   Cotton   Cotton    Wheat    Wheat    Wheat    Beans              nuts       peas    Sorghum
Unit      _ _          w         w         w_  _           w              w         w         w          w          w          w
Yields         ton        0.081     0.245      0.131    0.340    0.653       0.327    0.600    1.470    0.653         0.318      0.313      0.050
Price          k/ton      5,390    5,390       6,852    6,852    6,852       2,138    2,138    2,138    2,699         3,234      1,614      1,577
Fodder Value  kyats          14        43         -         -         -          38       70       130       230         84        110         461
Gross Income  kyats         451    1,364         898    2,330    4,474         737    1,353    3,273    1,992         1,112        615         540
Seed: Rate    kg/ac        4.5       4.5       31.8     20.0      13.6       45.5      45.5      45.5       9.0        32.0      21.0        36.3
Price   k/kg        5.93      5.93       7.54      7.54      7.54       2.35      2.35      2.35     2.97         3.56      1.78       0.19
Cost    kyats         27        27        240       151       103        107       107       107        27        114         37          7
Urea: Rate    kg/ac       0         56.0       0        56.0    110.0        0         45.0      110.0    14.0        0          0          0
Price   k/kg        3.33      3.33       3.33      3.33      3.33       3.33      3.33      3.33     3.33        3.33       3.33       3.33
Cost    kyats      0           186      0           186       366      0           150       366        47     0           0          0
-.4
TSP: Rate    kg/ac        0         27.0       0        35.0      70.0       0         45.0      110.0    28.0        0          0          0
Price   k/kg        2.56      2.56       2.56      2.56      2.56       2.56      2.56      2.56     2.56        2.56       2.56       2.56
Cost    kyats      0            69      0            90       179      0           115       282        72      0          0          0
MOP: Rate    kg/ac        0         23.0       0        0         40.0       0         0         40.0      0          0          0           0
Price   k/kg        1.61      1.61       1.61      1.61      1.61       1.61      1.61      1.61     1.61       1.61        1.61       1.61
Cost    kyats      0            37      0         0            64      0         0            64    0          0           0          0
FYM: Rate    kg/ac        0         0          0          1.0      1.0       0         0            1.0    0          0            1.5        0.5
Price   k/kg            8        8          8         8         8          8         8         8         8          8          8          8
Cost    kyats      0         0          0             8         8      0         0             8    0           0             12          4
Chemical Cost kyats       0         0          0          116       232      0         0         42.0      0          0          0           0
Bullock: Days Pairdays   9.0        11.0        8.0     17.0      18.0       20.0      25.0      27.0      15.0        9.0         9.0        9.0
Price k/day      12.8      12.8       12.8       12.8    12.8       12.8      12.8      12.8      12.8       12.8        12.8       12.8
Cost kyats        115       141        102        218     230        256        320       346      192        115         115        115
Hluman  : Days Mandays   11.0       24.0       17.0       47.0    49.0        28.0     30.0      32.0      20.0       11.0       10.0        10.0
Price k/day       6.4       6.4        6.4        6.4      6.4        6.4       6.4       6.4       6.4        6.4        6.4        6.4
Cost kyats         70       154        109        301      314        179       192       205      128          70         64         64
Total Costs   kyats         212       614       451      1,070    1,494         542       884    1,420        466        299        228        190
Net Return    kyats         239       750       447      1,260    2,970         195       469    1,853    1,526          813        387        350         '3
I-.t,1
w  Future with Project.                                                                                                                                    a u
w  Future without Project.



BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Farm Budgets - New Wells
5 Acres                                    10 Acres                                    20 Acres
Net             w                     w                     w                    w                      w                     w
Retorn    Cropped    Net        Cropped    Net        Cropped    Net        Cropped    Net        Cropped    Net         Cropped    Net
Crops                  Per Acre    Area    Return         Area      Return      Area      Return      Area      Return      Area      Return      Area      Return
Crops             (~~~~kyat$5      __  _kyts   (yats)             at) _z9_           (yty        (ac)     llyauliL   -jsL         kas        <La__-   AY-ats
Irrigated Crops I/
Wheat                         2,211         -         -         1.00      2,211        -          -         1.50      3,317        -          -          2.25      3,975
Cotton                        1,261        -          -         1.00      1,261        -          -         1.50      1,892        -          -         2.25      2,387
Mung Beans                       633        -         -         1.00        633        -          -         1.50        950        -          -         2.25       1,424
Rainfed Crops   1/
Sesame                           159      2.25        358       1.30        207       4.00        636       3.20        509       7.00      1,113       6.00         954
Chickpea                        483       2.00        966       1.30        628       3.50      1,691       3.00      1,449       6.00      2,898       5.50      2,657
Wheat                             81      1.10         89        -          -         2.00        162        -          -         3.50        284        -           -
Fodder Sorghum                  437       0.90        393       0.60        262       1.75        765       1.50        656       2.75      1,202       2.75      1,202
Groundnuts                      808        -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -         1.00        808       1.00         808
Cotton                            89       -          -          -          -         1.00         89        -          -         2.00         178       -           -
Irrig. Infras.                  -          -          -         0.20        -          -          -         0,30        -          -          -         0.50         -
Total Cropped Area                 -        6.25         -        6.40        -        '2.25        -        12.50        -        22.25         -       22.50         -         m
Cropping  Intensity                -        1.25        -         1.28                  1.23        -         1.25        -         1.11         -        1.13         -
Total Return Incl.
Labor Cost                      -          -        1,806        -        5,202        -        3,343        -        8,773        -        6,483         -       13,857
Return Per Acre Owned              -          -          361       -        1,040        -          334        -          877        -           324        -          693
Labor Costs                        -          -          676       -        1,074        -        1,356        -        1,854        -        2,460         -        3,094
Total Return Excl.
Labor Costs                     -          -        2,482        -        6,276        -        4,699        -       10,627        -        8,943         -      16,951
Mandays                            -          -           85       -          134        -          170        -          232        -          308                    387
Return Per Manday                 -          -         29.2        -         46.8        -         27.6        -         45.8        -         29.0                   43.8
w   Future without Project.                                                                                                                                                   P
w   Future with Project.
_/                          5 ac Farm  10 aic Farm  20 ac Farnm
Irrigated Area              2.00 ac   3.00 ac        4.50 ac
Rainfed Area                3.00 ac   7.00 ac       15.50 ac



-81-
ANNEX 5
BURMA                                       Table 7b
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Farm Budgets - Improved Wells
10 ac
w                         w
Net Return Per Acre       Cropped        Net        Cropped        Net
w           w         Area         Return        Area        Return
Crops                      (kyats)      (kyats)       (ac)         (kyats)       (ac)        (kyats)
Irrigated Crops l|
Wheat                               517        2,211         1.50          776         1.50        3,317
Cotton                              327        1,261         1.00          327         1.50        1,892
Mung Beans                          -            633          -            -           1.50           950
Sesame                              790          -           1.50        1,185          -            -
Rainfed Crops I/
Sesame                              159          159         3.20          509         3.20          509
Chickpea                            483          483         3.50        1,691         3.00        1,449
Fodder Sorghum                      437          437         1.50          656         1.50          656
Irrig. Infras.                      -            -           0.30          -           0.30          -
Total Cropped Area                    -            -          12.50          -          12.50           -
Cropping Intensity                    -            -           1.25          -           1.25           -
Total Return Incl.
Labor Costs                                      -            -          5,144          -          8,773
Return Per Acre Owned                 -            -            -            514          -             877
Labor Costs                           -            -            -          1,706          -          1,854
Total Return Excl.
Labor Costs                         -            -            -          6,850          -         10,627
Mandays                               -            -            -            213          -             232
Return Per Manday                     -            -            -           32.2          -            45.8
w   Future without Project.
w   Future with Project.
1/  Irrigated Area    3.00 ac
Rainfed Area       7.00 ac



BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
ECONOMIC REAL FLOW
(THOUSAND KYATS)
--  - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - --  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - -
YEAR        1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
NEW WELLS                      -       -     3577   12428   24671   37393   47888   57414   63486   66999   68991   70273   71025   71581   71910   72113   72192   72197   72179   72166
IMPROVED WELLS                 -       -        -     786    2056    3127    4225    53421   5736    5595    5457    5325    5200    5153    5153    5153    5153    5153    5153    5153
TOTAL INCR BENEFITS              -       -    3577   13213   26728   40519   52112   62756   69222   72593   74448   75598   76226   76734   77063   77266   77345   77350   77332   77319
--  -     - - -   - - -    - - -    - - -   - - -    - - -   - - -    - - -    - - -   - - -    - - -    - - -   - - -    - - -   - - -    - - -    - - -    - - -   - - -
INCREMENTAL COSTS
CAPITAL COSTS
WELL CONSTRUCTION          9115    7758    1416    1381        618       -        -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -                 -
WATER DIST I DRAIN        1,760   14773    7263    6987    3710          -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -        -       -        --
ENGR IADMIN                 302      905      905     905      905       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -        -       -        --
POWER SUPPLY SYSTEM         160   22187    1818    1335        507       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -        --
DIM OFCONST WORKS              -     213      743    1732    2672        -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -                 --
AG EXT IRESEARCH            952      197      200     211      552       -        -        -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -        -        -                --
TA ITRAINING               1167    3301    2006       735        -       -        -        -        -       -        -       -                -        -        -        -       -        --
PHYS. CONTINGENCY           697    1606    1404    1372        836       -        -        -                -        -       -        -       -        -        -        -       -        --
--  -     - - -   - - -    - - -    - - -   - - -    - - -    - - -   - - -    - - -   - - -    - - -    - - -   - - -    - - -    - - -   - - -    - - -    - - -   - - -
SUBTOTAL                14153   50940   15755   14658    9800          -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -
RECURRENT COSTS
OIM I REPLACEMENT              -       -        -       -        -    3200    4330    3420    3460    3460    3460    3460    4170    4890    4840    4130    3460    3460    3460    3460
AGR PROD COSTS                 -       -    1708    6051   11482   16183   19130   21366   22611   23248  213791   24226   24521   24648   24689   24706   24710  '24707   24705   24704
Affected  Raiy~ed           1155    1387    15212    1560    1549    1655    1810    1970    2069    2159    2106    2061    2032    2006    1991    1983    1977    1973    1970    1968
A rea-           - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - -- -     - - -    - - -   - - -    - - -    - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - --     - - -    - - -    - - -    - - -   - - -
SUBTOTAL                 1155    138?    3231    7 6121  13031'  21037   25270   26756   28141   28867   29357   29747   30723   31544   31520   30819   30146   30140   30136   30133
TOTAL INCR COSTS             15308   52327   18985   22270   22831  211037   25270   26756   28141   28867   29357   29747   30723   31544   31520   30819   30146   30140   30136   30133
NET INCR BENEFITS           -15308  -521327  -15408   -9057    3896   194821  26842   36000   41082   43726   45091   45851   45503   45189   45543   46447   47199   47210   47196   47186
-------   -------   ------- -------   -------   ------   -------   -------   ------   -------   - ------   ----- -   -------   -------   ----- -   -- -----   -------   ---- --   -------   -- -----  L   j
1 /    Net  foregone  agricuLturaL  production   in  the  affected                                                                                                                                                 J
rainfed area.



ANNEX 5
-83-                                   Table 9
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
Relative Importance of Project Economic Costs
and Benefits with Switching Values
PV of Benefit
or Cost Stream          Switching Values
% of Total    8% p.a.  10% p.a.  12% p.a.
I.   Benefits
A. Agricultural Benefits
1.  New Wells                  92.7        - 39.5    - 35.1    - 30.2
2.  Imiproved Wells             7.3        -503.8    -445.9    -382.7
Total (%)          100.0        - 36.6    - 32.5    - 28.0
(KM)         (345.6)
II. Costs
A.  Capital Costs
1.  Well Construction           7.3         884.5      675.8      478.5
2.  Water Dist. & Drain        11.3         563.2      426.7      316.2
3.  Power Supply System         9.0         711.6      533.4      391.1
4.  Other                       7.9         804.1      611.1      454.0
Subtotal              35.5          180.0     135.6       99.9
B.  Recurrent Costs
1.  O&M and Replacement         7.6         714.3      635.8      549.0
2.  Agricultural Costs         50.6         107.9       95.3       81.5
3. Agric. Prod. Foregone
in the Rainfed Area         6.3         911.4      767.8      625.9
Subtotal             64.5          85.0       74.8       63.8
Total (%)        100.0          57.7       48.2       38.9
(KM)     (233.2)



-84-                             ANNEX 6
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
I.   SUPPLEMENTARY WORKING PAPERS FOR THE STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. Groundwater Resources.
2. Design and Operation Criteria for Tubewell Irrigation Systems.
3. Suggested Guidelines for Project Monitoring and Evaluation.
II. REPORTS
1.  Central Statistical Office, MPF, "Selected Monthly Economic
Indicators, Statistical Paper (Bi-montly)", September 1982.
2. ESCAP, "Proceedings of the Expert Group Meeting on Water Pricing,
Water Resources, Series No 55", 1981.
3.  Groundwater Development Consultants (GDC), "Draft Feasibility
Study for Tubewell I", July 1982:
Volume I         -  Main Report
Volumes IT & III - Appendices
4.  GDC, "Burma Umbrella Project, Groundwater Exploration and Pilot
Development, Phase I, Volumes 1 and 2", November 1980.
5.  CDC, "Burma Umbrella Project, Groundwater Exploration and Pilot Deve-
lopment, Phase II, Quarterly Reports" (February 1981-August 1982).
6.  GDC, "Burma Umbrella Project, Groundwater Exploration and Pilot
Development, Draft Land Resource Report", February 1982.
7.  GDC, "Burma Umbrella Project, Groundwater Exploration and Pilot
Development, The Agro-Economic Survey - Results and Conclusions",
July 1982.
8.  GDC, "Burma Umbrella Project, Groundwater Exploration and Pilot
Development, Phase II, Draft Investigation Report", November 1982.
9.  Ministry of Planning and Finance, "Report to the Pyithu Hluttaw on
the Financial, Economic and Social Condition of the Socialist
Republic of the Union of Burma for 1982/83", 1982.
10. Santhanam, "A Cotton Improvement Programme for Burma, ARI Pub.No.2",
June 1978.
11.  Santhanam, "Report on the First In-service Training Course on Cotton
Production Technology, GDC Pub.No.3", January 1980.
12.  World Bank, "Burma Agricultural Sector Review, Volumes I and II
(Report No. 1680-BA)", 1977.
13.  World Bank, "Burma Umbrella Project, Final Report on Land Use Map
Component", 1977.
14.  World Bank, "Burma: Priorities for Continued Growth, Report
No. 3852-BA", May 1982.
15.  World Bank, "Staff Appraisal Report, Burma Power Project", April
1982.
16.  World Bank, "Staff Appraisal Report, Burma Tank Irrigation Project",
November 1982.
17.  ULG, "Burma Umbrella Project, Integrated Agricultural Development
Study, Volumes I to VI", 1979.



IBRD 16852R
L\  Y-lJ                9G01G                                  APRIL 19813
INDIA                                                         -,
CHINA
BANGLADESH                                                 . .
\ /  /  /t/-g\ 8} /  /   .   tTegyigonj
Is -ap h-s b-s prepared b.
The World Bak's vs /sorus.oa
10, pIe ct menet-   - he
re aders add 5 sonluSusvety  fir te                                3'8 Pk           //        s \    \\                                              ,
nleral use of The Whrld Bnk 
and nhe IntvsrealrOee .naonce                                            '   >                    \          i                  h 
CorporaIron Toe Osnsn,aasre:whsns&I\\\/-..+<
-ed and Ire .onda nf sdhow/
on hirs nap do nol ,npfl s. DOIte                                       a\0            z|uE                        ,E
par! ni The WoHd Sank and the
Inlernalrosal Frsone Cneporaholn                                             '          .                  |      /f ~
a_y udg-retn on "he ae-al sas
dia   rnn y deaya
endnrsernenl or aneplannea of\        \                                                            '        I     \          Is 
s_lh b-onda-e\
*<  SALt N               >d1
BURMA
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT I
PROJECT AREA                                                          Ii y                Payitkhn
PROJECT BOUNDARY                                                                                                   on
NEW  33/11 KV SUBSTATION, 1.5 MVA                                  ,'I>(
-       NEW 33 KV TRANSMISSION LINE
2200'                                NEW  11 KV DISTRIBUTION                                                                                                                               2200_
.       EXISTING 33/11 KV SUBSTATION
- - *   *    EXISTING 33 KV TRANSMISSION  LINE                                         /
-.----.--  EXISTING  11 KV DISTRIBUTION( 7Omm  ACSR)                          '    /  
---          NGROUNDWATER  LEVEL(Feet)
-   -- TOWNSHIP BOUNDARIES                                                     T                                       haung U
ROADS
RAILWAYS
RIVERS
HILLS 
-  -~ - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS                          '
MILES
I                   To   i
950W'                                                        'K  '.           To Sal rogyr  95 15'






IBRD 16853
>- 02 95X Do                   (d                                                     g950y                       DECEMBER 1982
INDIA        /
*-  5k;O                                                                                  W    
A,:NGLDSA  
Dmae
<THAILAND                                                              y
oronv  emence of te...
050er an5O eCt,,ttOOt    Opr the \>\   _  .v
,ovnnet ume ot The .515.10 Bankg   an
and phe Intrebpona d F bYance 
CTrporer'oo The des-mtrertore
WsB codtheb oendaereheowi
on dhie map do nortrpy enP  roy h                                   55       j.sJrlr>r4           
Bare r OThb aYsrl Benk and -th
Intrnmaronal Fm,nere corporaSkor  tzS                                                                    ..D    
00y JooBment or on 0 hlg:trotSs                                         t    $_    7f             t)-<
ot anr trorrrorS Or anyt,.._._ 
-d~~~~~~~~~~~~ -~% d |1, 11 - " \
~~~~~~~~, ~~~~                                   ~O                     J t- -p dE -t ,ply           3                        H
endrtmef or eocrOt-koce of
~~~~fRF .1y t- 0J                                                                                                                $         
GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION PROJECT i                                                                         6,SKaek                                                 .
PROJROECTBOUNDARY                                                               l.)                        e                                   >        t
ROADS                                                                   j -     /                                    a kka            H
-     --TOWvNSHIP BOUNDARIES gVyh t ft
GROU LS(TUBEWELL                  PROJECT I AREA)
la'..2iActive floodplain: variable soils, subject to river /J   d    
11.&J   flooding and erosion./Wt4    
-22000o            5:-- -n,   Inundation floodplain: variable soils, subject to          '           T       q      t.   2 \ /20
I t-:  lengthy seasonal flooding.                                                                               / \        ,6              _ 
W    Well drainezd, medium textured soils on recent and                           N/                                    \     \     /
Iyoung alluvium, smooth, near level land(D - 2%6)                                                           l      .    y      3
IModerately slowly drained, fine textured soils on recent to X  i( > 
D  . r insignificant.    12  u t 
3d soils subject to intermittent seasonal flooding                    .- 3 >\r                        2     hu        \< 
r- Very slowly drained, vertic, dark clays on recent to ancient           \W/                          
alluvium; smooth, near level land(O -2%)                                 lt4mi             . ~ -. .               :      \<   
Moderately to well drained medium  to fine textured red brown soils or \.','.  ,'..   . 'it
I ancient and old alluvium; mainly on smooth, near level land(O -2%)   \\E\                    -''   .' '       ;.)' -- 
I        Slowly drained, fine textured soils on undulating erodefd ancient     '\)           ,     -         '-.''.''I  '.t-.
|7   alluvium)0 -5%); usually truncated, may have younger topspil        '\  ;  {SW9-,               '.ds            1  .9
V5T    Severely truncated variable soils on eroded, often snrongly undulating  t  j4 |6t'''       '    ''   .   '\'f'
:f ancient alluvium(O -10%) intermixed with group 7 soils              _6   ', ,...........,.   
L3H1  High terraces*I   N                                                                             -    -', -          I
A  Standing water, including wet, excavated(E) land.        , ,>,<                 J      
01OEES                  5               10              15                        ' t                               /
MlY0                      5                         102
9TONSI BOUNDARIES



