Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21415
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-24370; TF-23425)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRS 10.9 MILLION (US$15.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR A
CAPACITY BUILDING: PUBLIC SECTOR AND
LEGAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 15, 2001
Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Unit
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =  Metical (MZM) - pi. Meticais
US$1 = MZM 2,809 (10/29/1992))
= MZM 15,610 (06/30/2000)
MZM I =  US$0.000356(10/29/1992)
= US$0.000064 (6/30/2000)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADR          Alternative Dispute Resolution
BR           Boletim da Reptublica, Bulletin of the Republic
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CEJ          Centro de Estudos Juridicos, Legal Studies Center
CNFP         Conselho Nacional da Funcao Puiblica, National Council for the Public Service
DAF          Departamento daAdminsitraado e Financas, Department of Administration and Finance
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
DO           Development Objectives
DPAC         Departamento Provincial de Apoio e Controle, pronvincial office of MAE
FILMUP       Zambia Financial and Legal Management Upgrading
IDA          International Development Agency
IMC          Inter-Ministerial Committee
IP           Implementation Progress
IPAJ         Instituto Para Assistencia Juridica, Institute for Legal Aid
MAE          Ministerio da Administraqo Estatal, Ministry of State Administration
MOJ          Ministry of Justice
MSF          Management Strengthening Fund
MULEIDE    Mozambican Women's Law Association
NDA          Nzkcleo de Desenvolvimento Administrativo, Administrative Development Unit
NGO          Non Governmental Organization
PMU          Project Management Unit
PU           Planning Unit
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SCR          Sistema de Carreiras e Remuneraqao, Career and Remuneration System
SIDA         Swedish International Development Agency
SIF           Salary Incentive Fund
UEM           Universidade Edoardo Mondlane, Edoardo Mondlane University
USAID        United States International Development Agency
WG           Working Group
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Darius Mans
Sector Manager/Director:    Brian Levy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Harry Garnett/Jocelyn Mason



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
MOZAMBIQUE
CAPACITY BUILDING: PUBLIC SECTOR AND LEGAL INSTITUTIONS
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1.    Project Data                                                       1
2.    Principal Performance Ratings                                      1
3.    Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry  2
4.    Achievement of Objective and Outputs                              10
5.    Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                17
6.    Sustainability                                                    19
7.    Bank and Borrower Performance                                     19
8.    Lessons Learned                                                   21
9.    Partner Comments                                                  23
10.   Additional Information                                            23
ANNEXES:
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix              24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                              25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                              27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                              28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components   29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                 30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                             31
Annex 8. List of Persons Interviewed                              32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






- 1 -
Project ID:    P001810                  Project Name: Capacity Building: Public Sector and
Legal Institutions Development Project
Team Leader:   Harry C. Garnett         TL Unit:      AFTI2
ICR Type:      Core ICR                 Report Date:  February 12, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Capacity Building: Public       LIC/TI  Number: IDA-24370;
Sector and Legal Institutions                 TF-23425
Development Project
Country/Department: MOZAMBIQUE                           Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: BI - Institutional Development
KEY DATES
Original          Revised/Actual
PCD:      11/14/90                   Effective:    06/01/93          02/28/94
Appraisal:    04/01/92                      AdTR.:   11/30/95             11/05/96
Approval:    11/19/92                     Closing:    06/30/99           06/30/2000
| orwerlImplemflentiingAgency: |  GOMITBA                                               l
|          ~~~~Other Partners: I 
STAFF                       Current                    AtAppraisal_
Vice President:             Callisto Madavo           Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:            Darius Mans               David Cook
Sector Manager:             Brian Levy                Steen Jorgensen
Team Leader at ICR:         Harry Gamett              Jacomina De Regt
ICR Primary Author:         Jocelyn Mason
2. Principal Performance Ratings
HS - Highly Satisfactory, S = Satisfactory, U = Unsatisfactory, HL = Highly Likely, L = Likely,
UN = Unlikely, HUN = Highly Unlikely, HU = Highly Unsatisfactory, H =High, SU  Substantial,
M = Modest, N = Negligible
Outcome:       S
Sustainability:   L
Institutional Development Impact:  M
Bank Performance:      S
Borrower Performance:     U
l __________;_____.____  ____ .______  QAG    (if available)
Quality at Entry:   U
Project at Risk at Any Time:  Yes
DO and IP ratings unsatisfactory for one year prior to Mid-Term Review



- 2 -
3.    Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1    Original Objective:
1.    Work on developing the Legal and Public Sector Capacity Building Project began in 1990, a
time when civil war was still raging in Mozambique. The end of the Cold War and the fall of the
apartheid regime paved the way for an end to hostilities in Mozambique, and the General Peace
Agreement was signed in October 1992. Over the next two years, the Government reformed macro-
economic policies and introduced more liberal constitutional provisions, demobilized 80,000 soldiers,
resettled several million refugees and displaced families back to the countryside, and began the process
of re-establishing its administrative presence throughout the national territory. The first multiparty
elections were held in 1994, and over 80 percent of the eligible population voted. Peace also brought
an acceleration of the process of transforming the Mozambican economy from a centrally administered
to a market system. The Legal and Public Sector Capacity Building Project, along with its twin, the
Human Resources Capacity Building Project, were therefore being developed at a critical time in
Mozambican history, in which large changes were taking place rapidly.
2.    Bank engagement in Mozambique had begun in the mid 1980s, with adjustment operations in
1985 and 1987 in support to the country's economic reform program. The adjustment process was
accompanied by a series of investment projects, mostly emergency-type projects aimed at mitigating
the effects of adjustment and of the civil war. Hindering Mozambique's development, and thus more
narrowly the implementation of the Bank's and all other donors' effort to support the Government's
program, was an extremely serious shortage of capacity, in both the public and the private sectors.
The public sector in particular lacked skilled individuals of any level, and especially well-educated and
experienced people capable of providing leadership in planning and management. In addition, the
public sector was increasingly unable to compete for the scarce talent available. This was due to its
relatively much poorer pay (that was being eroded by devaluation of the local currency), employment
conditions, and work environment in comparison to donor-supported projects and to the nascent
private sector. The Legal and Public Sector Capacity Building Project was part of an effort, based on
the findings of a substantial study undertaken by the Bank and the Swedish International Development
Agency (SIDA) among others, to maintain and expand local capacity to plan and manage
Mozambique's development. As originally designed, a single project was meant to respond both to the
need to improve the public sector's effective demand for (incentives and conditions of employment
and professional training, both pre- and in-service) and the supply of trained and qualified personnel.
However, the project was deemed too large and complex, and was divided into two. Between them,
these projects were expected to result in thousands of additional Mozambicans trained in professional
domains, and that concurrent actions in the areas of public pay and employment, the reform of public
institutions and the management of technical assistance would encourage these professionals to join
and remain in the civil service.
3.    It was (and remains) easy to underestimate the capacity constraints facing Mozambique in the
early 1990s. For example, there were only 90 lawyers in a country of over 16 million in 1990; there
were almost no judges with formal legal training - in Nampula province, the country's most populous,
there was one judge for the whole province; in the public service two-thirds of senior civil servants had
only secondary level education, one third had only primary education; and in the provinces the
situation was much worse, only 74 provincial directors out of 206 had schooling beyond the primary
level. Compounding these problems, the Government had no reliable mechanism to control its civil
service: in 1989, no ministry had an accurate tally of who was on its pay-rolls; some ministries did not
have a human resources department; rules were unclear and lines of authority were not formally
established; and there were over 6,000 different job categories, with no ministry sharing the same
qualification requirements.  A process for achieving effective establishment control was only
completed in 1999, when 89 percent of the 105,000 civil servants were accounted for, 'ghosts' and



- 3 -
other anomalies removed from the payroll, and all civil servants were included on a unified
information system. Indeed, the situation in Mozambique was so parlous that even the Government
consistently overestimated what it was capable of achieving. The implications of this for the project
were that the Bank and other donors were compelled to start from a very low base. Limited objectives
and a very clear and contained set of outputs were the most that could be achieved over the short-term,
or that the Government could absorb and to which it could be committed.
4.     The Legal and Public Sector Capacity Building project's main objective was to build and
maintain capacity in key public institutions and skill areas by expanding the supply of well-trained
senior planners, policy analysts, managers, and technicians, and by enhancing pay and other incentives
and conditions of employment for senior civil servants. Specific objectives included: (a) strengthening
legal institutions and professional capabilities; and (b) developing public administration and
management skills and enhancing civil service personnel systems.
5.    Experience over the decade since the preparation of the project began has shown that the
strategic focus of the two components of the project was appropriate. By focusing on improving civil
service administration in one component, the project was supporting a critical first stage of a process
of public sector reform, in which the Bank is now playing a central role. The Bank should also be
commended for taking what was, for the time, a rather advanced view of the importance of legal
reform to private sector development. The Bank had not typically addressed this issue, and the
Government and donors in Mozambique had not fully recognized its importance. Now reform of the
legal sector is one of the primary concerns of the Government's reform program and the Bank's CAS
for Mozambique. Inclusion of the legal component played an important role in stimulating interest in
the sector, beginning to address the issues, and laying the ground for future Bank involvement.
6.    Nevertheless, the objectives of this project suffer from a number of weaknesses. First, the
objectives are very broad, and give an inadequate idea of what would be achieved within the limited
time and resources available during the project. As a result, the project did not help to prioritize the
actions it was supposed to support. Moreover, in the absence of concrete indicators, it is difficult to
assess whether the project has achieved its objectives. This first weakness was compounded by a
second, that is the project overestimated the capacity of the project's implementing agencies . In the
words of one Bank task manager, there was a "lack of capacity to build capacity." Third, there was
little link in practice between the objective of strengthening legal institutions and that of developing
the public administration. In effect the project amounted to two entirely separate sub-projects, with no
connection between them other than the Bank task manager. Finally, the design of this project was
influenced by the emergency-type thinking that was informing most other projects at the time, but at
the same time it embraced longer-term ambitions. The fact that project objectives were shaped
loosely, as might be appropriate in an emergency-type operation, derives from this type of thinking.
Similarly, the way the salary incentives fund was developed (see paragraph 56 below) bespoke a short-
term solution in lieu of a more systematic reform. Emergency-type thinking combined poorly,
however, with the inherent nature of both long-term policy reform and the nuts-and-bolts reforms
which formed the core of the project.
3.2    Revised Objective:
7.    The project was revised through several amendments, which had the combined effect of
significantly reducing its scope. With these amendments, the project now aimed at more modest
practical steps aimed at laying the foundation for more embracing reform.



-4 -
3.3    Original Components:
8.    The original project was split into two in response to concerns, expressed during the Yellow
Cover review meeting and echoed during negotiations, about the supervision requirements of the
proposed project, given the size and complexity. The other project was the Human Resources
Capacity Building Project. Briefly after negotiations, the Legal and Public Sector Capacity Building
project was to be a technical assistance project, which did not require a Staff Appraisal Report (SAR),
but before going to the Board management decided to present an SAR for this project as well. While
these last minute technical changes need not have, in themselves, adversely affected the outcome of
the project, they suggest ambiguity on the part of the Bank about the nature and scope of the project's
objectives, and the best instrument to achieve them.
9.    An Inter-Ministerial Committee on Capacity Building was meant to coordinate the activities of
the two projects, as well as a broad range of other capacity building activities in Mozambique.
However, the links in practice between the two projects were weak, and, were it not for the limited size
of each component, could have as easily been split into four separate projects. During implementation,
the connection between the twin projects weakened further. In the first years of implementation they
shared a task manager, but from mid-term onwards the connection had faded completely. For the
borrower there was never a practical connection between the two projects.
10.   The Legal and Public Sector Capacity Building project, as noted, consisted of two completely
separate components, one for each of the two main objectives. There was no practical link between
these components. The Strengthening Legal Institutions and Training component had a base cost
of US$7.2 million, while the Public Administration and Development Management component had
a base cost of US$6.5 million.
11.   The Strengthening Legal Institutions and Training component was implemented under the
auspices of a Legal Working Group comprising representatives of each of the five major legal
institutions. These were the Ministry of Justice (MOJ), the Supreme Court, the Administrative
Tribunal, the Attorney General's office, and the Faculty of Law at Eduardo Mondlane University. The
MOJ was the main counterpart for the Bank, and was meant to be the 'first among equals' as the
Government's line agency for legal affairs. The component's objectives were "to create a group of
competent lawyers capable of designing and implementing a sophisticated legal and regulatory
framework underpinning a market-oriented system; and build a corps of lawyers, paralegals, judges
and court officers to ensure the proper administration ofjustice." It consisted of activities including:
a) Design and implementation of a long-term strategy and action plan to strengthen the legal
profession and the judiciary. This included support to three workshops to a) review the
capacity, scope of work, institutional arrangements, and staffing of the main legal
institutions, and b) recommend eventual adjustments to the functional, organizational,
staffing, administrative, and professional aspects of these institutions; to fund diagnostic
studies of the Law School with a view to improving the training programs provided; to
support a planned National Conference on the legal profession in 1996; and by
strengthening the legal institutions through training and exposure to other legal systems
and traditions (US$800,000 or 11%).
b) Improvement in the quality and efficiency of legal services, as well as training for the
lawyers and judiciary.  This included professional and in-service training for legal
practitioners, law teachers, judges, magistrates and students, as well as the design and
implementation of a pre-service and in-service training program as part of a follow-up of a



- 5 -
pilot launched by the MOJ; and support for legal reform as it relates to private sector
development (US$3.6 million or 50%).
c) Facilitating the dissemination of the law and the administration of justice through the
design of modem automated legal information systems; upgrading resources and
operations of law libraries; assisting the legal reform process through providing consulting
services, conducting seminars, and preparing legal materials. This included improving the
legal libraries, notably the acquisition of books; and support to a modem legal information
system (US$932,000 or 13%).
d) Assisting in the development of legal institutions, such as the Administrative Tribunal, the
Center for Judicial Studies, the Bar Association and the women's law association,
MULEIDE (US$640,000 or 8%).
e) Strengthening the institutions responsible for Project Implementation, and funding for the
component management unit (US$1.3 million or 18%).
12.   The Public Administration and Development Management component was to be
implemented by the Ministry of State Administration (Ministerio da Administracao Estatal, MAE). It
was designed in close coordination with and to supplement SIDA's public administration program. It
consisted of the following sub-components:
a) The establishment of a Planning Unit within MAE, staffed by a combination of local staff,
locally-recruited advisors and foreign consultants. The unit was to be created as a
condition of effectiveness, and its functions were to i) act as secretariat for the Capacity
Building Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC), including developing a plan for
implementing the National Capacity Building Strategy; ii) develop strategies and
implementation plans for civil service reform; iii) develop an institutional strategy and
plan for MAE itself (US$580,000 or 9%).
b) Support for the ongoing program of reforming the civil service personnel management
system. The first phase of this program had been funded by SIDA; the project was to add
IDA support to SIDA's for a second phase, which would include integration of all civil
servants into he information system and the introduction of a new standardized career and
remuneration system (US$1.8 million or 28%).
c) Support to MAE's institutional development, including assistance to the Department of
Administration and Finance (DAF); the provision of scholarships; and a contribution to a
local cost fund to support MAE's leadership and coordination role in relation to civil
service reform and overall capacity building (US$1.1 million or 17%).
d) Financing for a Management Strengthening Fund, an internal grant making mechanism to
support innovative reforms and capacity building proposals made by public sector
agencies, to support management improvements within the public service and the
development of emerging NGO professional organizations (US$3 million or 46%).
13.   The component also was responsible for the administration of a salary incentives fund (SIF) to
be funded by other donors. While the SIF was not to be funded by credit funds, but rather from
bilateral grants, it was conceived as an integral part of the government's capacity building program
and its goals, modalities and management mechanisms were evaluated as part of the Bank's appraisal
of the program.



-6 -
3.4    Revised Components:
14.   There were three major amendments in all, and a number of minor ones. The first of these
took place as the project became effective. It recognized that the independent legal institutions would
not recognize the authority of a Legal Working Group over the planning and allocation of component
resources, even if constituted by a representative from each of these institutions. This amendment
reduced the role of the Working Group to one of simple coordination without any decision-making
powers, in effect splitting the component into five mini-components. With this amendment the
development of a strategy for reform for the legal sector as a whole was also implicitly abandoned.
This failure to relinquish leadership of the sector to one authority is a reflection of the weakness of the
institutions themselves, and of the Ministry of Justice in particular. This latter ministry had neither the
technical capacity to guide reform in the sector, nor the political strength to assert leadership. At the
same time, no other legal institution was in a position to substitute for it.
15.   The second amendment took place a year after effectiveness. It abolished the Planning Unit
(PU) within MAE, and the IMC. Some of what would have been the PU's responsibilities were
transferred to a newly-created Nuicleo de Desenvolvimento Administrativo (NDA). The difference
between the NDA and the PU was that the latter was conceived to have a more executive role-as the
project management unit for the capacity building project, as well as in supervising the implementation
of reform and capacity building activities both within and beyond MAE and reporting on them to the
Bank and to the Government via the IMC. Ministry officials contended that the PU duplicated
activities of bodies that already existed within the Ministry, and proposed a more limited role for the
NDA, as a sort of in-house 'think-tank' for producing position papers and seminars to inform the
Ministry's ongoing activities. As part of the same amendment, the policy and oversight role of the
IMC was reallocated to the existing Conselho Nacional da Funqio Puiblica (CNFP), a sub-committee
of the Council of Ministers headed by the Minister of State Administration. The CNFP had a less
ambitious role than that of the IMC, limited to civil service management reform. Although the DCA
continued to give NDA the role of secretariat for the CNFP, this role was no longer necessary or
possible given the new character of the NDA. The effect of these changes was to sharply reduce the
policy and institutional reform agenda of the project, so that it simply supported the civil service
reforms already under way and managed by the National Directorate for Public Administration
(Direqcdo Nationalpara Fun!do Ptiblica, DNFP).
16.   The third amendment took place at mid-term. This amendment abolished the Management
Strengthening Fund (MSF), and cancelled US$3 million from the project. The MSF had remained
dormant since implementation, and MAE was clearly neither willing nor capable of administering it
effectively. It is a measure of MAE's implementation weakness that, while indisputably short of
resources and in need of support for reform activities, it was unable to avail itself of $3 million of
relatively 'easy' money.
17.   Also, several minor amendments re-allocated resources across categories within the
components, mostly with the effect of increasing the resources spent in the Legal component on
training, and on increasing the resources in MAE spent on purchasing equipment as part of the
computerization of the new career and remuneration system. Finally, the project was extended by one
year to allow for the complete introduction of the new civil service career and remuneration system
and complete work on its computerization. These amendments reinforced the impact of the major
amendments.



-7 -
3.5    Quality at Entry:
Project Design
18.   Project design suffered from a number of weaknesses. The idea of 'capacity building' as it
was conceived during project preparation was new to the World Bank's Africa Region at the time, and
this was the first of three early projects in the Region to attempt to put it into practice. Preparation of
the other two projects, the Tanzania Financial and Legal Management Project (TZ-2817) and the
Zambia Financial and Legal Management Upgrading (FILMUP) Project (ZM-8258) was launched
shortly after this project. 'Capacity building' has since been superceded as an organizing concept for
project design, because of its excessively all-embracing nature, because it lacks specificity, and
because it inevitably takes an overly determinist, 'top-down,' approach. The design of this project
reflects these shortcomings, mainly in the lack of clarity in its objectives, and by seeking to establish
the IMC and the WG to coordinate and drive capacity building in their respective sectors. Moreover, it
appears the Bank was not fully aware of the supervision demands of this type of project; the need for
high levels of supervision in Mozambique in general, and for institution building and technical
assistance projects in particular, is a lesson that has become clearer with more recent experience (see for
example the Implementation Completion Report for the Local Government and Engineering Project.)
19.   Second, the project included significant policy-reform elements, to be headed by the PU.
These related particularly to the integration of the district, provincial and central levels within the
management career structure and to other aspects of the incentive structures for civil servants. Many
of these reforms were already being addressed in an incremental way by the human resources
management reform activities supported by SIDA and to be further supported by this project. The
more sweeping reforms implied in the SAR to be led by the PU seem not to have been at the time
properly understood or accepted by MAE. The SAR also speaks of reform of the public sector more
generally, which the PU was meant to help coordinate. As was typical of a number of projects at the
time this one was designed, while the project aimed to address broad policy issues, it did so with
technical reforms as a starting point. Based on the limited success of this approach, recent projects,
throughout the Region, have tended to tackle the policy issues directly, according to a clearly defined
policy agenda developed as part of the preparation of the project.
20.   The effect of the amendments was to address these failings, refocusing the project away from
leading broad sectoral reforms onto more narrowly defined institutional strengthening and training
activities. The Strengthening of Legal Institutions and Training component now focussed primarily on
training legal personnel and facilitating the dissemination of laws, i.e. the items described in paragraph
11 items b) to d) above. Similarly, the Public Administration and Development Management
component now focussed mainly on the pay and remuneration system reform, institutional
strengthening of critical departments within MAE, and training. In short, the Bank shifted its approach
to one that was more 'incrementalist,' more appropriate to Mozambique's evident implementation
capacity constraints, and to the complexities, unpredictabilities, and need for long termn engagement
inherent in this type of reform. Recent thinking, both in Mozambique and in the Bank more generally,
supports this approach. However, although many of the problems in project design were addressed
through the amendments, some remaining difficulties, such as the delays in effectiveness and
implementation caused by the poor management structures, and the awkward connection between the
components of the project, could not be corrected. These design flaws remained at the root of many of
the project's future problems.
Implementation Arrangements
21.   The implementation arrangements as originally conceived did not, in practice, meet the needs
of the project. Firstly, the Bank did not adequately account for the weakness of the MOJ. The MOJ



- 8 -
was seen by the project as the natural, indeed unavoidable, leader for the Government's reform
program of the legal sector. However, the MOJ fell short of being able to perform this function
adequately, and was itself in need of substantial institutional strengthening. The MOJ appears to have
been often absent during the preparation and the early implementation stage of the project, and it
demonstrated a low level of commitment to the project from the start. More focus on reform and
strengthening of the MOJ would seem to have been a prerequisite for that ministry to play the role
defined for it.
22.    After the first amendment, the WG became merely the coordinating body for five separate
sub-components. The legal institutions retained the PMU to serve them each separately in facilitating
their dealings with the Bank. Specifically, the unit handled day-to-day relations with the Bank,
managed the procurement process, and tracked expenditures and provided all reporting requirements.
It did not monitor the quality or effectiveness of activities and did not initiate activities, all of which
was the responsibility of the individual institutions. This unit worked well in the limited role it had. In
fact, despite its limited official role, the PMU was able to unofficially stimulate action and improve the
effectiveness and quality of activities, and the effort and dedication of the project manager and his staff
should be recognized as contributing to the successful outputs of this component.
23.   However, the WG as mere coordinating body created a number of problems. First, the WG
was unable to assert the leadership required to reallocate resources across institutions to accommodate
different rates of implementation, and the Bank was not in a position to impose such reallocation. This
led to resources being used less effectively. In addition, while strict accounting across institutions was
maintained for the purposes of financial management, there was a wide variation in how well the
different institutions kept records of their activities, monitored their achievements, and itemized their
purchases - the records of none can be said to be adequate. Second as a result of this atomization of
activities without any organizing body, the component was deprived of any means of supporting
sector-wide activities or of laying the ground for future sector-wide approaches. A notable exception
to this is the computerized legal data-base, which was largely managed under the auspices of the
Project Management Unit (PMU) (see paragraph 36 below for more details of this activity.) Finally,
institutions not represented on the WG were given short shrift. MULEIDE and the new Bar
Association were allocated relatively small amounts of money at the beginning of the project, and no
new  resources thereafter.  This again speaks primarily to the weakness in the institutional
arrangements, and secondarily to the failure of the Bank during supervision to prevent these
institutions being ignored.
24.   Implementation arrangements for the Public Administration and Development Management
component were also problematic during the first half of the project. Technical responsibility for
management was to lie with the Planning Unit in MAE. When this unit was abolished the Ministry
delegated management of the component to the National Director for Public Administration (DNFP).
However, he was not able to devote the time, nor was it an appropriate role for him, to manage the
project which cut across several functional directorates within MAE. In addition, due to the scarcity of
qualified staff within the Directorate, no-one was delegated these responsibilities.  Day-to-day
administrative responsibility was to rest with the DAF, with the project supporting an additional
accountant and training for the supplies officer in procurement. At the mid-term review, the Bank and
the Ministry agreed to hire a component manager to assume responsibilities for procurement, financial
management, coordination and reporting, after which implementation of project activities and the
utilization of project resources improved considerably.
25.    The lack of any practical link between the two components of the project also led to
difficulties in implementation.  These included rigidities in reallocating resources as necessary
between the two components, and duplication of the local staff needed to manage the project. In



- 9 -
addition, since the performance of the two components was different, it inhibited the Bank from
adjusting the project as a whole to reflect the performance of the individual components.
26.   The IMC was to be established to coordinate the Capacity Building Program in Mozambique,
of which this project and its twin were part. It was to be presided over by the Minister of State
Administration. Its membership was to include the Ministers of Planning and of Finance (these two
ministries were joined after 1994), as well as the Ministers of Education, Justice, and Labor. The
Rector of UEM and the Attorney General could also be asked to join (in keeping with the educational
focus of the other CB project). The creation of the IMC was problematic in several ways. First, the
mandate of the IMC was unclear, appearing at once too narrow and too broad. On the one hand it was
devoted exclusively to the coordination of the two Bank projects. On the other, it's mandate was
based on the concept of 'capacity building' which is very broad but is not programmatically specific
enough, and covers too wide an array of sectors to provide an adequate framework for activities or to
warrant coordination at that level. Second, an inter-ministerial committee already existed to preside
over reform of the civil service (the Conselho Nacional da AdministraVdo Putblica, CNAP), and the
IMC appeared to duplicate its work in some of the areas of its substantive focus.
Borrower commitment
27.   Borrower commitment to the project is difficult to evaluate in this case. Despite the laudable
efforts made by the Bank during preparation of the project to ensure that the project was developed in
close partnership with the borrower, a number of factors suggest that the borrower had not, in fact,
fully 'bought into' the project. Principal among these, of course, are the lengthy delay between Board
approval and effectiveness; the amendments required before project activities took place that
effectively reduced the scope of the project; and the very slow disbursement until mid-term,
particularly in the Public Sector component. Later experience suggests that, at least in the case of the
Public Sector component, while the political level of government, at least initially, understood and was
committed to the project this was not the case at the technical level, where there persisted a poor
understanding of what the project sought to achieve and how to integrate it into existing activities. In
the case of the Legal component, the commitment to the project of the five legal institutions seems to
have been compromised by the discomfort they felt over the role of the WG before the first
amendment. Moreover, subsequent actions on the part of the MOJ cast doubt on the degree to which it
understood its role in, and was committed to the broader objectives of the project. Throughout the
project, the MOJ's commitment-both to the project and to a variety of specific reform and capacity-
building initiatives remained ambiguous.
28.   In summary, quality at entry of the project was unsatisfactory. However, in mitigation of the
design's shortcomings, it must be acknowledged that the Bank undertook this project at a time of
considerable uncertainty in Mozambique.  It reinforced the Bank's nascent relationship with
Mozambique early in the process of public sector reform; it established the Bank as one of the
institutions that recognized and supported early on the importance of overcoming the capacity
challenges that Mozambique faced, particularly in the public sector; and it recognized, unusually both
for the Bank and for other donors, the importance of the legal sector to private-sector led and equitable
development. Despite its design flaws and implementation difficulties, the project successfully broke
ground in two critical areas for donor support, and established important relationships with the
borrower on which significant future operations have and will continue to depend.



- 10-
4.    Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1    Outcome/achievement of objective:
29.    When a project's objectives in the SAR are poorly defined, it is difficult to evaluate its success
against achieving them. In this case, the lack of concrete objectives combined with the weakness of
the implementation arrangements make it difficult to evaluate its success. However, the amendments
effectively defined the project's objectives more narrowly and specifically, and against these objectives
the project did achieve some notable outputs. As aimed for, it laid the foundation for undertaking a
broad reform of the public and legal sectors in Mozambique. On balance, therefore, it is rated
satisfactory.
30.    Specifically, the project strengthened legal institutions and professional capabilities in the
judiciary as well as among advocates, and developed public administration structures and enhanced
civil service personnel systems and their management. Notably, 1) legal institutions previously
existing in name only are now functioning, recourse to trained judges is now available to citizens in
the provincial capitals, and a process of long-term reform of the legal sector has been launched; and 2)
the civil service career management system has been substantially reformed and a long-tern public
sector reform program is under way. The Bank was among a small number of donors working in these
two sectors, and the Borrower agrees that, in the absence of the Bank's credit, much of this progress
could not have been achieved. Importantly, the project paved the way for the Bank's future work in
these sectors by developing the relationship with MAE and with the legal institutions.
4.2 Outputs by components:
31.   The SAR listed a number of outputs for each component. They are listed below, with a
description of the project's success in achieving each of them.
Strengthening Legal Institutions and Training
32.   The Legal component of the project was, on the whole, successful in achieving a majority of
its planned outputs. It can take credit for having supported much of the substantial improvements,
particularly in staffing, that have taken place in the sector over the last decade.
33.   Design and implementation of a long-term strategy and an action plan to strengthen the legal
profession and the judiciary in Mozambique. This output was implicitly dropped following the first
amendment.
34.   Improvement of the quality and efficiency of legal services, as well as trainingfor the lawyers
and judiciary. This, and the following two activities and their outputs were substantially achieved.
The majority of resources, almost US$5.5 million, or 64 percent of resources were spent on training.
This included in service training for lawyers, judges, court officials (such as bailiffs and court
stenographers), and other staff involved with the administration of justice (such as prison
administrators and prison guards); short study tours abroad, and long-tern training. It also included
establishing bilateral links between Mozambican institutions and those of other countries. The impact
has been positive on the whole. The following data, by institution, make the point.
The Supreme Court, which is responsible for deploying judges in all provincial and
district courts, could deploy just eleven judges with legal training in the country outside
Maputo, and the dispensation of justice was left largely to community tribunals whose
officials had no legal training. Under the project, at least two trained judges are now



- 11 -
present in each of the provinces, and a judge has been installed in each district court. In
total, some 70 new judges were trained and appointed, and 50 existing judges were
provided with appropriate re-training. The courses ranged from three to six months each.
The project also provided training to court officials.
The Attorney General's Office was established in 1989 and, in 1992 when the project
was approved, was constituted by two trained individuals. By the end of the project, the
Office was constituted by seven senior attorneys, a qualified attorney was installed in each
of the provincial capitals, and training had been provided to attorneys in the districts
(although training of attorneys in the districts was not completed.) The project provided
training for all of these attorneys, and supported the purchase of office equipment for all
provincial offices. After the project, this institution remains the weakest, however, and
despite improvements in training, is largely ineffective. The year after the close of this
component, the President of the Republic dismissed the Attorney General and all six
Assistant Attorneys General on allegations of corruption. Nevertheless, the institution and
the physical offices remain, as do the supporting legal staff.
* The Administrative Tribunal only existed on paper in 1992. It is responsible for the
legality of official expenditures, and therefore provides the audits for all official accounts
and approves official expenditures (notably, it approves all new appointments and
promotions in the civil service) and acts as ombudsman for the public administration. The
Tribunal now comprises 70 trained jurists, as well as appropriate support staff and
equipped offices. The Tribunal has a critical role to play in the civil service reform
process. While it is still short of adequate staff, and will require substantial reform of its
institutional framework, it nevertheless has for at least four years been providing the
services required of it by statute.
* In the Ministry of Justice the Minister's Office, the National Directorate of Registers and
Notaries, the National Directorate of Prisons, and IPAJ, the Institute for Legal Aid, all
benefited from the project. In the Minister's Office, senior officials benefited from
international seminars; in the National Directorate of Registers and Notaries 186 notaries
and registry officials received specialized training and improvements in the registry
systems for motor vehicles were advanced; the National Directorate of Prisons received
substantial support for training for its staff, all the way from senior level prison guards to
prison administrators and departmental officials (a total of 270 individuals).  It is
important to note that, not only did the majority of officials with legal responsibilities lack
adequate basic education levels, there had been no training whatsoever for specialized
staff (such as notaries and prison administrators) in Mozambique since independence. In
addition, included among the seminars and courses offered were courses in alternative
dispute resolution (ADR), aimed at complementing an USAID funded effort to develop
legislation for ADR in Mozambique, for commercial law to start off with. This will help
expedite resolution of the simpler and more straight-forward conflicts in the commercial
arena, and lay the foundation for similar alternatives in other areas of the law.
* The Faculty of Law at Edoardo Mondlane University, by far the most important law
school in Mozambique (there are now others at the Catholic University campuses in
Nampula and Beira), had been dormant for a considerable period since independence, and
closed altogether for four years. Opened with a new, modernized, curriculum in 1991, it
suffered from a severe shortage of qualified teachers, as well as an almost complete lack
of text-books and library books. Under the project, nine tenured faculty were provided
with full-time post-graduate training, while an additional 10 were provided with
substantial short-term  courses, mostly abroad.  Due to Mozambique's position as a



- 12-
Portuguese speaking country with a Civil Law legal system surrounded by Anglophone
countries with a Common Law legal tradition, the law faculty needed to be able to provide
training in both traditions in both languages. The Law Faculty, while still suffering from a
number of weaknesses (notably due to a lack of adequate compensation for its faculty)
now does dispose of an adequately trained faculty, admits classes of between 100 and 150
students, and has increased the number graduating from 8 or 9 in the early 1990s to around
90 per year. The project also significantly increased the supply of textbooks and library
books.
35.   In addition to the training and seminars provided to the five main institutions, the project also
provided three training courses to MULEIDE. The project was also meant to create a Center for
Judicial Studies (CEJ), to provide in-service training to legal professional on a continuous basis. The
CEJ was created only in name, however. Once again, the main reason for this was the atomization of
the project among the five main institutions.
36.   Facilitating the dissemination of the law and the administration ofjustice through the design
of modern automated legal information systems; upgrading resources and operations of law libraries;
assisting the legal reform process through providing consulting services, conducting seminars, and
preparing legal materials. The project was substantially successful in achieving this set of outputs.
First, the project supported the creation of a legal database of all of Mozambique's laws published in
the Boletim da Repzublica (BR), the official legal publication in which laws become effective the
moment they are published. Prior to the database, few if any complete sets of the BR were known to
exist in Mozambique; a few partial sets were held by various institutions including the Supreme Court
and the MOJ. Since this is the only place where the country's laws are published, it was, in effect,
possible for only a few people to access the entire corpus of the law. In addition, since the BR had
been published on very poor quality paper, particularly during the war, even those copies that did exist
were decaying rapidly. With support from the project, the BR was transferred onto a CD disk, first in
analog form, and then in readable text form. The data was made available on-line to all legal
institutions in the country, including libraries, and is published on the web on a fee based system. This
system has the impact of significantly improving access to Mozambique's published laws.
37.    Second, the Faculty of Law in particular has benefited from substantial increases in the
number of books and textbooks available to it. Where the law faculty had been mostly devoid of
textbooks and library books at project inception, students are now provided with at least one copy of
each basic text per four students, and the library possesses an adequate collection purchased with
credit funds. In addition, the Supreme Court also used credit funds to improve its own library
collection. Finally, the project supported the development of a management system for inter-library
loans among the various law libraries.
38.   Third, the project supported a variety of efforts, particularly on the part of the Law Faculty, to
increase understanding and improve access to the law. For, example, in an effort to increase
awareness of certain important aspects of the law among local lawyers and legal practitioners in the
provinces (including the basics of the legal system, environmental law, and law of international
contracts), the Law Faculty sponsored twelve seminars in six provincial capitals; and, based on
experience gained through a study trip abroad, the Faculty has established a system whereby law
students provide 'legal clinics' gratis to individuals and small businesses.
39.   The project design also included resources for a law reform program. The SAR did not
specify which laws it would support reforming, or how law reform supported by the project should
take place. As a result, the project did not adequately achieve this objective. The project did support
preparatory work in reforming the commercial code, the family law, and the penal code. However,



- 13 -
work on these activities only began late in the project's life, and these laws are currently being
reformed, supported by the Bank, under the new PODE project and by other donors.
40.   Assisting the development of the legal institutions, such as the Administrative Tribunal, the
Center for Judicial Studies, the Bar Association and MULEIDE. As indicated above, the project
provided considerable support for the five main legal institutions, and the Administrative Tribunal and
the Attorney General's office in particular, as well as to the Bar Association. This support consisted
largely in computer and other office equipment. The CEJ was not created as planned, and while
MNULEIDE benefited from seminars and training programs, it was not provided with equipment or
technical support.
41.    Strengthening the institutions responsible for Project implementation. As documented above,
the WG was divested of its responsibility for project implementation and became simply a project
coordinating unit. In consequence, beyond resources devoted to staff and to equip the coordination
office, no additional resources were allocated to the WG.  Resources to support institutional
development of the five main institutions, that were responsible for implementing their individual sub-
components of the project, have been discussed above.
42.    The sustainability of these outputs is mixed, on the one hand, the institutional improvements,
from the establishment in practice of the Attorney-General's office and the Administrative Tribunal to
the improvements in the Faculty of Law, will be sustainable. On the other, as with most training
projects, the sustainability of the improvements in the quality of senior legal personnel is more
questionable because of the continuing difficulties the public sector faces in retaining qualified
personnel, and the lack of resources for continued training.
Public Administration and Development Management
43.    The Public Administration component of the project was, on the whole, also successful in
contributing to the modernization of Mozambique's public sector.
44.    The establishment of a Planning Unit within M4E, staffed by a combination of local staff
locally trained advisors andforeign consultants. The PU was abolished shortly after it was created
because, as conceived in the SAR, it challenged the mandates of existing directorates. Moreover, the
Bank had overestimated MAE's capacity to lead a broader reform of the Mozambican public
administration, and the concept of the PU potentially overreached MAE's technical and political
capacities to effect change in the broader public sector. On the one hand, MAE was too weak a
ministry to represent effectively the Government's views, and, on the other, it had not the authority to
lead a cross-sectoral Government activity.
45.    The Nucleo de Desenvovimento Administrativo (NDA), created in the stead of the PU with a
more limited role, was purely a 'think-tank' to support the Ministry's ongoing activities. Yet, even in
this limited role, it failed to complete any but a very small number of the tasks for which it was
responsible. The Ministry was never fully convinced of the usefulness of the NDA, and the staff it
appointed were weak. In the end, the project's support for the NDA was minimal and most of the
resources originally earmarked for the PU were re-allocated. The lesson here is that, even though it is
the responsibility of a ministry like MAE to lead reform of the public administration, when such
ministries lack political legitimacy and technical capacity the reform process must be led from
elsewhere, arguably at the level of the Cabinet, and must be Government-wide.
46.    Notable successes, however, that come under the rubric of this activity were one public sector
reform workshop and two anti-corruption seminars. The former, which comprised representatives
from a wide range of branches of government (legislative as well as administrative,) as well as



- 14-
representatives from civil society, was cofinanced by the Governments of the Netherlands and
Sweden. It produced a framework which has since been used extensively to help articulate the
Government's policy (at Consultative Group Meetings, for example) as well as guide future reforms.
This framework informs all public sector reform activities now, and is arguably the single most
important intellectual achievement of the component. The anti-corruption seminars addressed the
question of corruption in public fora for the first time, and began what is now an ongoing process of
finding solutions.
47.   Support for the ongoing program of personnel management, now entering the second phase of
the program covering the extension of the personnel system to all other sectoral ministries at both the
central and provincial levels. The majority of component resources were devoted to this activity and it
produced the component's major achievements. The Bank, in cooperation with SIDA who had been
involved in the reform of the civil service management system since the 1980s, supported the
identification and integration of roughly 105,000 state employees into a unified database; the creation
of a new career and remuneration system and the reintegration of all existing civil servants into the
new system; the development and promulgation of the necessary legislation to implement the new
system; an information campaign to familiarize civil servants with the changes that would affect them;
and the design of a computerized network and management system. Importantly, the reform also
included the decentralization of most routine personnel management to provincial governments. The
main effects of the new management system are fourfold. First, where before the Government had
almost no knowledge of who was on its pay rolls, there is now a single, comprehensive, database of all
civil servants and their positions with a system in place to insure that it is kept current, ('ghost
workers' and other irregularities have been removed). Second, the many individuals inadequately
qualified for their positions have been identified and targeted for retraining or other action. Third, the
civil service classification structure has been simplified, and career streams introduced, allowing for
promotions that reward in-service training, experience and good performance. Fourth, the new
remuneration structure is greatly simplified, based on the minimum wage, and includes a significant
decompression of wages (the highest non-management wage is about 16 times that of the minimum
wage, for example, while the highest line management wage is 21 times the minimum wage). These
advances represent an important first stage of a comprehensive reform of the civil service. The length
of time taken over it (over 12 years in all) and the substantial amounts of foreign T.A. explains the
Government's success in producing this significant output despite the severe weaknesses of the
ministry responsible. The Bank's role was to support the decentralization of the management system,
the purchase of the equipment and materials needed, the computerization of the system, and the
information campaign that accompanied its introduction.
48.   As a result of the improvements in personnel management the project achieved, the stage has
been set for the next phase of civil service and institutional reforms which promise to promote a more
performance oriented public sector. A next stage of the reform would address the fact that wages are
still not competitive enough to attract and retain adequate numbers of qualified personnel, especially at
the technical levels; the civil service still contains large numbers of under-qualified personnel; the
decentralization process, both of the civil service management system and of the public sector more
generally has only just begun; and the tools and responsibilities for personnel management in the
ministries is still oriented towards establishment control rather than active personnel management.
49.   Support to MAE's institutional development, including assistance to MAE's Department of
Administration and Finance (DAF); the provision of scholarships; and a contribution to a local fund
to support MAE's leadership and coordination role in relation to civil service reform and overall
capacity building. DAF benefited from considerable support and was largely transformed from a
simple accounting department with hand-written ledgers into a unit equipped with computer databases
and staff trained to use them, able to undertake basic financial management and management of the



- 15 -
ministry's assets. It was also provided with the experience of managing the financial aspects of a
Bank project.
50.   Another output from this activity included in-service training of MAE staff, as well as four
scholarships for first degrees in France and in Brazil. The training programs were mostly directed at
staff in the provincial offices of MAE (the DPACS) and the human resources staff of other ministries
(notably education) for the purposes of deconcentrating management of lower level staff to the
provinces, and introducing the new personnel management systems. This was practically the only
training many of these individuals had ever received, and therefore its impact was disproportionately
large, in terms of improvements in performance and of bringing the provincial offices of MAE and
other ministries into the reform process. In all some 600 individuals received training. In contrast, the
scholarship program had minimal impact, mainly due to very poor implementation.
51.   The other unit in MAE that benefited from substantial support in the form of training and
equipment was the Administrative Inspectorate, identified as a new strategic priority during the Mid-
Term Review. It was supported by the Bank as a means of ensuring that administrative rules and
regulations were applied fairly throughout government, and that MAE officials in the field were
adequately informed of what the rules were.  This was particularly important given that the
administrative processes were being reformed and simplified. The project funded training for the
MAE inspectors, a course of training for 45 inspectors in other ministries who are under the guidance
of MAE for administrative procedural matters, and a series of large seminars in the provinces designed
to familiarize provincial staff of administrative procedures. The impact of these efforts, while hard to
quantify, were significant: they were almost the only effort on the part of the government to inform
provincial staff of administrative procedures and to standardize these procedures.
52.   As part of the implementation of the personnel management system, the Ministry with support
from the project also created a local cost fund for provincial directorates to support decentralized
personnel management. This rotating fund was administered by each provincial directorate to support
the minor administrative costs of personnel management. The amounts involved were very small - a
balance of $250 per directorate, which was replenished only once or twice during the two years of its
existence. However, it was the only fund for which the provincial directorates were given exclusive
discretion, and for which they had to practice appropriate accounting and reporting methods. The
Ministry reports that this experiment, though small in monetary terms, had a disproportionately
important impact in empowering the provincial directorates and building local accounting capacity.
53.   On the whole the training programs seem to have had the desired results, and management of
lower level staff is now deconcentrated and the new systems introduced. There was clearly scope for
more training, but despite continued efforts on the part of the Bank to develop a strategic approach to
training, the Ministry never produced one. Similarly, there was no effort to use the resources for
bachelors and masters degrees strategically, or to make the selection process methodical. The four
candidates were chosen ad hoc by the National Director, and monitoring of performance was
extremely lax. One returned to the Ministry and continues to work in the Personnel Department. The
remaining three have not yet returned and there is no guarantee they will remain within the public
sector. While one could question whether Government borrowing should be used for higher education
abroad, and whether the Bank should be associated with such an activity, an opportunity was lost to
target these resources to those most likely to make the greatest impact on the public service in general
and MAE in particular.
54.   Financing of a Management Strengthening Fund to support management improvements within
the public service and the development of emerging NGO professional organizations.  The
management strengthening fund was a missed opportunity. It was never established, and this activity,
along with the resources associated to it, were cancelled at mid-term. The Bank overestimated MAE's



- 16 -
ability to lead public sector reform in Mozambique, and underestimated the capacity constraints the
ministry itself faced. MAE was simply not in a position, (and the Government itself too poorly
articulated,) for it to administer a fund for the Government as a whole (let alone including non-
governmental entities.)
55.   In addition, to the activities listed above, credit funds were to be used to finance consultant
services to assist in the monitoring of a salary incentive fund (SIF) and in assessing its impact on civil
service staffing and performance. The aim of the SIF was to counteract the effect on the salaries of the
most valuable civil servants of the rapid devaluation resulting from the structural adjustment loans.
Funds for the salary enhancements were to be provided by the Governments of Norway and
Switzerland. Swiss resources were used prior to project effectiveness, while Norwegian funds (circa
$3 million), that were conditional on project effectiveness and administered by the Bank, were used
thereafter. However, the Government unilaterally expanded the original target of 2,600 civil servants
to include approximately 4,400 additional beneficiaries, mostly in the provinces and with four rather
than six years' experience. A commonly held explanation for this is that, through internal pressure
both bureaucratic and political the Government was not able to resist 'category creep' wherein more
civil servants with less critical roles and less formal qualifications were brought under the scheme.
Another, posited by some commentators, is that the selection of those with higher degrees and long
experience meant de facto skewing the fund to civil servants in Maputo. This was politically not
viable at a time when the first multiparty elections were to take place and the ruling party needed votes
in the provinces. Bank staff working on preparation of the project report that some MAE officials had,
in fact, opposed the scheme, on the basis that it interfered with the development of the new salary
framework, and that it was politically too sensitive. The result, in any case, was that neither donor was
willing to replenish the fund until it had been restructured and made sustainable. Whatever the
explanation for the ballooning numbers of affected civil servants and the consequent failure of the SIF,
it is clear that it was premature, and did not take into consideration either the administrative or political
realities of Mozambique.
56.    This component produced important outputs. Its failure, however, to achieve all the planned
outputs and to take a more strategic approach to reform, is due to two factors, in addition to the
remaining problems inherent in the design. On the one hand, it is clear that managers at the technical
level were only 'bought into' the project in as much as it was useful to support existing activities with
which they were engaged. The project was never used to open new avenues for action, nor was there
much thought given to using project resources strategically. On the other, it speaks to the weakness of
MAE more generally. Technical managers were fully engaged in 'fire-fighting' and had neither time,
nor the staff, nor the ability to look beyond immediate needs. In this sense, "there was no capacity to
build capacity." This confirms the project may have been premature in wanting to undertake major
policy reforms and a major training program. In the event it was the project's 'nuts and bolts'
activities that laid the ground for more embracing reform.
4.3    Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4    Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.



- 17-
4.5   Institutional development impact:
57.   The institutional development impact of this project is rated modest. This project was
exclusively focused on institutional development, and its impacts are detailed above. Given how weak
both the legal institutions, MAE and the public sector generally were when the project was developed,
the Government made considerable progress in reforming them. Both the Bank and the borrower
agree that reforms supported by the project are a first stage in a lengthy process.
5.     Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
S. 1    Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
58.   The Ministry's ability to tackle a large number of challenging issues at the same time is
impaired by the severe scarcity of qualified staff within MAE. Throughout the project, Mozambique
was going through a major political transformnation, much of which demanded that MAE play an
important role. From 1992, when the project was approved, to 1999, when the project closed,
Mozambique signed a peace agreement that ended the civil war, held two national elections (in 1994
and 1999) and local elections (in 1998). Each of the elections, as well as the legislation that made
them possible and the two electoral censuses, were administered through MAE, and the legislation
creating independent municipalities was developed by MAE (with support from the PROL project
funded with a Bank credit.) In addition, the Ministry, like the Government, needed to extend rapidly
its administration throughout the country, much of which had been inaccessible during the civil war.
Finally, rapid transformations in other ministries, such as health and education, also needed to be
absorbed and reflected in MAE's activities. The result of these external pressures is that the Ministry
could rarely escape a 'crisis management' mode of operation in order to develop a longer, more
strategic view. This, among other things, accounts for MAE's preference for pursuing more limited,
practical objectives and postponing taking the more encompassing approach to public sector reform
the project design had envisioned.
59.    A second factor outside the Government's control was the competition for qualified staff from
outside the public sector. This came both from the private sector and, especially, from donor agencies
and donor funded projects. The years following the 1994 election saw dramatic increase of donor
support for Mozambique, with the concomitant need for local staff to manage it. These years also saw
a great increase in private sector activity, that also required talented personnel. Together these factors
put large new demands on an already very small pool of qualified individuals. The civil service,
whose low salaries were further undermined by the sharp devaluation of the Metical as part of the
structural adjustment program, had great difficulty retaining trained staff or attracting new ones. In
addition, high top-ups and other fees paid to sitting civil servants severely distorted the salaries within
the civil service. The effect on the project was twofold. First, it faced the same difficulties as other
projects recruiting qualified personnel to manage it. More importantly, the project's positive impacts,
of the career and remuneration reforms especially, were reduced in the face of the onslaught of donor
project funds and, to a lesser extent, private investment capital.
5.2    Factors generally subject to government control:
60.   The success of the project in achieving a significant number of its objectives, particularly in
the public administration component, is largely due to the Govemment's commitment to tackling the
problem of weak capacity in the public sector, and especially to reforming the civil service
management system. Conversely, the fact that the project was not able to go further in developing a
long-term strategy for the legal sector, is a reflection of the weakness of the MOJ and the lack of
commitment on the part of Government to a concerted reform effort.



- 18-
61.   One of the main factors affecting implementation within the control of the Government was
the delay in effectiveness. This was in part due to the fact that the Minister of MAE changed just
before the project became effective. It resulted in the delays that follow inevitably from a change in
management. However, more important was the fact that the Government was not willing to go
through with the implementation arrangements which had been agreed to as conditions of
effectiveness. This reflects the Government's inexperience with the Bank, its unwillingness to
challenge the Bank's proposals, as well as its inability to come up with a viable alternative. It also
reflects the Bank's over-estimation of the Government's capacity.
62.   Also affecting the project was an unreliable provision of counterpart funds and slow
Government approval of contracts. Misunderstandings over the Bank's procurement procedures also
contributed to delays. The difficulty of securing the small amounts of counterpart funds needed for the
legal training activities in particular, persuaded the Bank to lift the requirement for direct counterpart
funds in September 1997, limiting the Government's contribution exclusively to providing dedicated
staff and administrative support.
5.3    Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
63.   Both the Legal institutions component and the MAE component were slow to implement to
start with, even after the lengthy delay in effectiveness and the subsequent amendments. In the case of
MAE, this was due in large measure to the fact that, once the Planning Unit was transformed into the
Nzicleo the management of the project fell to the National Director for Public Administration, who was
unable to put into place an effective arrangement to manage the implementation details. Following the
Mid-Term Review, MAE hired a project manager, and implementation improved considerably. A
contributing factor to the weak management of the project prior to hiring the project manager was the
unwillingness in MAE to share resources between projects within the same Ministry. Thus, the
procurement expert attached to the PROL project, who had been trained in Bank procedures, was not
used adequately to support this project component. This speaks to a tendency to balkanize activities
between projects and directorates within MAE, inhibiting efficient collaboration and creating a
duplication of effort.
64.   While accounting and auditing generally met the minimum standards required by the Bank,
monitoring and control overall remained very weak, both for MAE and for the Legal Institutions. On
the legal component side, the project management unit functioned well, and installed an effective
system for tracking expenditures. However, once the project was over, activities had ceased, and the
final audit concluded, the data was erased from the hard disc on which they were kept and no detailed
record remains. In MAE, records were generally poorly kept. In neither case was any effort devoted to
establishing a system to monitor the outcomes of the project's activities, for the purposes of informing
the design of other activities or the development of reinforcing links with other ongoing activities.
5.4    Costs andfinancing:
65.   The project was implemented within the financial package as agreed in the DCA.
66.   As shown in Annex 2, the total cost of the project was US$12.73 equivalent, or 73 percent of
the projected project costs of $17.5 million. The shortfall was due mainly to the cancellation of the
Management Strengthening Fund sub-component.
67.   IDA credit disbursements accounted for just over US$12.3 million, 79 percent of available
funds and 97 percent of total project costs. However, as noted in the amendment canceling the 10%
counterpart fund requirements for the training components, the total project costs estimated in the SAR



- 19 -
do not include all costs. Notably, funding from Swedish SIDA for the new civil service career and
remuneration system was not included in the project costs. Other donor funding includes circa US$3
million from the Government of Norway, and 3 million Swiss Francs from the Swiss development
Corporation.
68.   The life of the project was originally for six years from February 1993 to June 1999. The
project was extended for one year.
6.    Sustainability
6.1    Rationalefor sustainability rating:
69.   The sustainability of this project is considered, on the whole, likely.  The overall
improvements in the institutions the project has supported are sustainable. In the case of the legal
component, the increased number of trained judges and lawyers will likely persist, as the new salary
regime has greatly improved remuneration, but are threatened by continued excess demand for
qualified staff elsewhere in the economy. The increases in the number of law students to which
improvements in the law faculty and in the law library have contributed, will also persist. More
importantly, the momentum continues that the project began towards law reform and reform of the
legal sector.
70.   In the case of Public Administration, the new human resources system  is now fully
entrenched, both in law and administratively. In addition, the exigencies of the system itself will push
further reform, in completing the computerization process for example, and shifting the system beyond
simple establishment control and more towards human resources management. Some of those
provided training to administer the system have left for more attractive positions outside the public
sector, but many have remained. New cadres of technical staff can be trained, moreover, as the
training programs were designed and largely delivered by in-house staff. Most importantly, the
Government is clearly embarked on a process of public sector reform for which this project helped
provide the foundation. This process will likely continue, as public sector reform is now a declared
priority for the Government and its development partners.
6.2    Transition arrangement to regular operations:
71.   As this is a capacity building project, the issue of transition to regular operations does not
arise.
7.    Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1    Lending:
72. The Bank's efforts during preparation to address Mozambique's capacity constraints in a flexible
and innovative way, and, in particular, to recognize the importance of reform of the legal sector to
Mozambique's post war reconstruction and long-term development, all deserve considerable praise.
Moreover, that this was done in a difficult political and institutional environment should also be
acknowledged. The Bank team was especially foresighted in being among the first to recognize as
central themes many of the issues that are now universally recognized as critical concerns today.
However, the design of the project, which resulted in an unsatisfactory quality at entry rating overall,



- 20 -
was flawed. In general there appears to have been a lack of adequate assessment of the policy and
institutional environment for implementation, as preparation tended to focus on technical analyses of
problems and assessment of potential solutions with insufficient regard to their practicability given the
weak position of key implementing institutions. For these reasons, the Bank's performance during
preparation is rated unsatisfactory.
7.2   Supervision:
73. There were two distinct periods during project implementation. During the first, which preceded
the mid-term review, the project advanced slowly, and was rated 'unsatisfactory' for one year on
implementation progress (IP) and achievement of development objectives (DO). This was largely due
to the failure of the MAE component to exhibit any real progress, but also reflected the slow start of
activities under the legal component. This rating is the result of failings on the part of both the Bank
and the Borrower. On the Bank side, the weaknesses were due mostly to poor communication with the
borrower, and a poor recognition of the very high supervision requirements that the project needed.
Nevertheless, the Bank should be commended for being willing to amend the project and reduce the
scope of the objectives to meet the Borrower's requests and implementation realities. During the
second half of the project, performance improved significantly, and the Bank can take some credit for
this. Far-sighted and constructive intervention during the mid-term, eliminating the Management Fund
sub-component and raising the profile of the project with the Borrower and the Bank, helped. This,
combined with better communication and much improved performance on the part of the Borrower,
led to the Bank upgrading the project to 'satisfactory.' The improvement in the quality of the
relationship between Bank and the implementing agencies was the result of an increased willingness
on the part of Bank supervision missions to allow the project to adapt to fit the implementing agencies'
evolving needs. In addition, given the very weak management in MAE in particular, the Bank was
closely involved in the day-to-day management of the project, visiting the project an average of five
times a year during the second half of the project. While a majority of these visits were not formal
supervision missions, it allowed the Bank to supplement the implementing agencies' very weak
management capacity. However, the Bank was also remiss in allowing very weak management
practices to persist, especially on the part of MAE, and for not addressing more vigorously the evident
problems in the legal WG arrangement and the MOJ's lack of commitment. On balance, however,
Bank supervision performance is rated satisfactory.
7.3    Overall Bank Performance
74.   Despite the weaknesses of the project at entry, because of the Bank's efforts to address
difficult issues in an innovative fashion, and the satisfactory performance during supervision, the
Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4   Preparation
75.   Borrower performance during preparation was mixed. On the one hand, MAE participated
fully in discussions concerning Project component identification and displayed flexibility in Project
design. The Borrower should also be given credit, particularly MAE, for being willing to consider
innovative ways to address Mozambique's capacity constraints. On the other, the MOJ participated
with less reliability between approval and effectiveness, and did not attempt to act swiftly in resolving
the difficulties surrounding the institutional arrangements; and MAE was short-sighted in supporting
untenable implementation arrangements through project preparation.  On balance, Borrower
performance during identification, preparation and appraisal was unsatisfactory.



- 21 -
7.5    Government implementation performance:
76.   Overall, the Government's implementation performance was unsatisfactory. The necessary
legislation for both the reforms in MAE and those in the legal sector were made. The Government
devoted the necessary time and resources to make the significant budgetary changes that the Career
and Remuneration system required, committed itself fully to the framework and strategy that MAE
adopted, and promoted it appropriately to its constituents and to the donor community. However, in
the case of the legal component, the Government allowed the balkanization of the legal sector to
persist, did not take the opportunity to foster more embracing reform of the legal sector, and did not
act swiftly to ensure that needed laws were reformed. Moreover, it did not provide necessary
counterpart funds in a timely fashion to either component, and delays related to contract approval were
also problematic. In the case of MAE, it failed to establish the links between MAE and the other
ministries, especially the MPF.
7.6   Implementing Agency.
77.   Performance on the part of the implementing agencies of both components was mixed.
MAE's performance, particularly in earlier part of the project was unsatisfactory. Performance
improved considerably during the second part of the project, and implementation progress improved.
However, management practices remained weak, even with the new project manager.
78.   Performance of the implementing agencies for the legal component is difficult to assess. The
management unit was very effective, and, within the limits of its remit, was able to provide
considerable stimulus for and coordination of the diverse activities that the legal sector was using
credit funds to support. However, the WG format, in which each institution was the de facto
implementing agency for its part of the component, did not work well. The perforrnance of the MOJ,
meant to beprimus inter pares among the legal institutions, was unsatisfactory. Administratively, the
performance of both the legal implementing agencies and MAE was weak. However, a majority of
outputs aimed at in the amended project were achieved. Thus, on balance the implementing agency
performance was satisfactory
7.7    Overall Borrower performance:
79.   Overall Borrower performance was unsatisfactory.
8.    Lessons Learned
*  Capacity constraints in Mozambique are severe even by African standards. The Bank
should therefore guard against overestimating borrower capacity to implement.
Specifically, project objectives should be clear, concrete and achievable in the short terrn.
Implementation arrangements should be simple. Objectives and outputs should be
practical.
* Where coordination and leadership in the Government and the implementing agencies is
weak, managers at the technical level are unlikely to 'buy into' a project beyond its use in
supporting activities with which they are already engaged. Where a project seeks to open
new avenues for action, a greater effort is required to build support among technical
managers and to strengthen the leadership and coordination in the appropriate agency.



- 22 -
*  Capacity building, especially when there is so little capacity to start with, is inherently a
long term activity. The duration of a normal Bank project can serve to launch and
undertake a stage of the process. Capacity building projects should be designed within a
framework of long-term Bank commitment (such as is now possible with an APL.) Work
on the human resources management system, for example, had begun in 1989, and its
success in large part was the result of an unusual level of long-term commitment and
patience on the part of both SIDA and the Bank.
*  Where implementation capacity is especially scarce, projects should ensure that local staff
have the necessary skills, and that a dedicated personnel for the project are identified and
mobilized. Bank projects should consider developing the necessary implementation skills
during project preparation or through an initial period devoted to training those
responsible for the management of the project.
*  When projects are developed in a situation of post-war reconstruction, a clear distinction
should be made between those activities that are principally emergency, and those that are
meant to lead to long-term reform led by substantial policy change. The latter require
longer planning, a higher level of specificity in their objectives, and a broader political and
resource commitment on the part of the Government.
*  In capacity constrained environments where the government is poorly articulated, no
single ministry will be able to lead government-wide, multi-sectoral reforms. These will
need to be led at cabinet level or the equivalent. Moreover, inter-ministerial committees in
a capacity constrained environment created to generate and coordinate policy can only be
made effective if there is a widely held recognition of their usefulness at the political level.
For this reason, they are likely to be successful only in a limited number of cases. To be
successful, they should have a clearly defined mandate, and should be created with the
explicit agreement and clear 'buy-in' of the affected ministries.
*  Coordinated reform of the legal sector can be difficult in environments with weak public
institutions and scarce human capacity and resources. Ministries of Justice, who should
normally lead the Government's program in the legal sector, are often the weakest among
the legal institutions. Moreover, a renewed enthusiasm for the rule of law after a period of
Government interference can strengthen individual legal institutions' desire to guard their
independence, and consequently weaken the leadership role of a MOJ. Reform of the
legal sector, therefore, presents a peculiar challenge. A reform program should, therefore,
focus first on establishing an appropriate leadership role for and building capacity within
the MOJ or its equivalent for the purposes of the reform. Special attention should be given
to designing and following through with a mechanism for coordinating the institutions
within the sector behind a unified program.
* Salary Incentives Funds, while increasingly important as possible solutions for entrenched
public sector uncompetitiveness, are inherently politically sensitive and administratively
difficult to implement. They should be applied only in the context of comprehensive civil
service management reform program.



- 23 -
9.    Partner Comments
(a)    Borrower/implementing agency:
MAE and the Legal Working Group both wrote completion reports, which were discussed during
seminars prior to the closing of the respective components. These reports are available in hard copy in
the project files. Their findings concur with those in this report.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10.   Additional Information
Not Applicable



- 24 -
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
This project was designed before a Log Frame Matrix became a mandatory part of project
preparation. The SAR required that each component lead agency develop, as part of the launch
exercise, clear indicators for monitoring progress, closely linked to the quantitative targets for each
component. However, the implementing agencies did not comply with this requirement. At mid term,
three broad indicators were included in the PSR. These were:
1.    Training received by 200 judges, 300 court clerks, 600 administrators; course and legal
instruction received by 70 teachers; refresher training received by 120 practicing lawyers.
Result:   Targets met.
2.    An effective career development, training and remuneration system in place and able to atttract
quality civil servants.
Result:   Target met.
3.    MAE enabled to take a leadership role in public sector reform.
Result:   Target met.



- 25 -
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component                  US$million   US$million
Strengthening Legal Institutions and Training  7.20        9.05            126
Public Administration and Development      6.50            3.68             57
Management
Total Baseline Cost                          13.70           12.73
Physical Contingencies                      1.80
Price Contingencies                        2.00
Total Project Costs                          17.50           12.73
Total Financing Required                     17.50           12.73
Note: The additional amount spent by the Legal Component over the appraisal estimate is due
largely to the appreciation of the SDR to the dollar during the 1990s, and the fact that the
unallocated amount was allocated to each component proportionate to their allocation of project
resources at mid-term.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement  Method 1
Expenditure Category    ICB           NCB         Other 2     N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                 0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                 0.50         0.00          0.40        0.00        0.90
(0.50)       (0.00)        (0.40)     (0.00)      (0.90)
3. Services              0.00         0.00          4.80        0.00        4.80
(0.00)       (0.00)        (4.30)     (0.00)      (4.30)
4. Miscellaneous         0.00         0.00          10.50       0.00       10.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (10.30)     (0.00)     (10.30)
5. Miscellaneous         0.00         0.00           1.30       0.00        1.30
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                 0.50         0.00          17.00       0.00       17.50
(0.50)       (0.00)       (15.00)     (0.00)     (15.50)



- 26 -
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement   Method 1
Expenditure Category    ICB           NCB           Other2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                  0.00          0.00           0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                  0.72          1.38            1.30        0.00        3.40
(0.72)        (1.38)         (1.30)      (0.00)      (3.40)
3. Services               0.05          0.30           1.49         0.00        1.84
(0.05)        (0.30)         (1.49)      (0.00)      (1.84)
4. Miscellaneous          0.38          0.00           6.69         0.00        7.07
(0.38)        (0.00)         (6.23)      (0.00)      (6.61)
5. Miscellaneous          0.00          0.00           0.42         0.00        0.42
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.42)      (0.00)      (0.42)
Total                  1.15          1.68           9.90         0.00       12.73
(1.15)        (1.68)         (9.44)      (0.00)     (12.27)
Notes: 1. The first miscellaneous category is Training; and the second is Operating Expenses
for the legal working group.
2. Differences between tables here and data in the Loan database are due to exchange rate
fluctuations between the SDR and the Dollar
1/  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include
contingencies.
2/  Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting
services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical
assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and
(ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Project (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Project        Appraisal Estimate     Actual/Latest Estimate
IDA    Govt.   CoF.    IDA      Govt.   CoF.    IDA       Govt.   CoF.
Legal and Public    15.51   2.00           12.27    0.46              79.1    23.0
Sector Capacity
IBuilding Project



- 27 -
Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable



- 28 -
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a)    Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                                                            Performance
Rating
No. of Persons and Specialty  Implementation  Development
Month/Year         Count   (e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation
April 1992             12      ML,2 L,4 ED,4 CB, 1 other
Supervision
October 1993           2            2 CB                           S               S
December 1993          1            CB                             S              S
May 1994               1            DC                             S               S
June 1994              1            CB                             S               S
December 1994          2            CB, ID                         S               S
December 1995          2            CB, ID                         S               S
February 1996          2            CB, ID                         S               S
June 1996              2            CB, ID                         U               U
November 1996          5            CD, CB, 2 ID, L                U               U
February 1997          2            2 ID                           S               S
October 1997           2            2 ID                           S               S
October 1998           2            2 ID                           S               S
May 1999               1            ID                             S              S
November 1999           1           ID                             S               S
ICR
April 2000                          ID                             S              S
Notes: 1.  CB= Capacity Building Specialist, CD = Country Director, DC   Division Chief, ED
Education Specialist, ID = Institutional Development Specialist, L= Legal Specialist.
2.  Official missions between 1997 and 2000 were supplenented by frequent visits during which
the TL was on other missions. In total, visits during this period averaged 5 per year.
(b)   Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation             56.2                      139.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                  22.3                       54.3
Supervision                           113.2                      309.9
ICR                                      9                         25
Total                                200.7                       528.6
Notes: 1.  As this project was prepared jointly with the Human Resources Capacity Building
Project, the figures for Identification/Preparation and Appraisal/Negotiation reflect the
resources spent on both projects.
2. Recorded staff time on supervision is an underestimate. As noted in the text, during the
second half of the project, the task manager was in Mozambique an average of 5 times
per year, and on each mission spent time with this project even when not officially on
mission for it.



- 29 -
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Sector Policies                             M
Institutional Development                   M
Social
Poverty P'eduction                      N
Gender                                  N
Public sector management                    M



- 30 -
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1    Bank performance                         Rating
Lending                                  U
Supervision                              S
Overall                                  S
Bank Lending performance on balance was unsatisfactory, but should be commended for
taking innovative approaches to address Mozambique's capacity constraints, for recognizing the
importance of legal reform, and for having developed this project in a difficult political and
institutional environment.
6.2    Borrower performance                     Rating
Preparation                              U
Government implementation performance    U
Implementation agency performance        S
Overall                                  U
Borrower performance during preparation was weak, mainly because of its contribution to the
poor institutional arrangements. Borrower implementation agency management practices were and
remain very weak. The satisfactory rating for implementation agency performance is due to the
success, despite these difficulties, in achieving a majority of the desired outputs.



- 31 -
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Avalia,co Final do Projecto Capacity Building, Componente Administra,ao Publica, June 2000,
Ministerio da Administracao Estatal, Direc,ao Nacional da Fun,cao Publica -- the Ministry of State
Administration's official completion report.
Exercicio Capacity Building, Componente Legal - Avalia,co Final, draft, September 1999, EMCO --
official completion report written by consulting firm contracted by the Legal Component Project
Management Unit but not yet officially sanctioned.
Legal Capacity Building (Mid-Term Review), November 1996, Susanna Brito -- consultant review for
the World Bank's mid-term review mission.
Staff Appraisal Report, Capacity Building: Public Sector and legal Institutions Development Project,
October 29, 1992, World Bank
Staff Appraisal Report, Mozambique Capacity Building Project, March 11, 1992, draft, World Bank
Mission Supervision Reports, April 1992 to May 2000, World Bank



- 32 -
Additional Annex 8.  List of Persons Interviewed
Jacomina de Regt --   World Bank
Phyllis Pomerantz --   World Bank
Dr. Aires de Amaral --  Ministry of Justice
Mario Rui        --  Director, Project Management Unit, Legal Component
H.E. Aiuba Cuereneia -- Vice Minister, MAE
Dr. Higino Longomane -- National Director, DNFP, MAE
Dr. Mario Da Paz --   Project Coordinator, MAE
Louis Helling    --   Consultant
Lars Tengroth   --   Embassy of Sweden
The Legal Component Working Group (seminar)
MAE representatives (seminar)



