Page  1
May 31, 1995
H.E. F. Salomao
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 272
Maputo, Mozambique
Excellency:
Credit No. 2437 MOZ (Capacity Building: Public Sector and 
Legal Institutions Development Project)
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
We refer to the above-mentioned Development Credit Agreement (the Agreement), 
dated January 29, 1993, between Republic of Mozambique (the Borrower) and 
International Development Association (the Association). Further to the letter from 
H.E. Eneas C. Comiche, dated October 20, 1994, and to discussions held between 
representatives of the Borrower and the Association, we are pleased to inform you that 
the Association hereby agrees to amend the Agreement, as follows:
Article 1:
Section 1.02 (c) of the Agreement shall be amended to read as follows:
"NDA" means Nucleo de Desenvolvimento Administrativo, the Administrative 
Development and Planning Unit of MAE, established pursuant to the Organic Statute of 
MAE, approved by Ministerial Diploma, dated September 29, 1994, issued by the 
Borrower’s Minister of State Administration, and referred to under Part A of Schedule 
6 to this Agreement".
Section 1.02 (d) of the Agreement shall be amended to read as follows:
"CNFP" means Conselho Nacional da Funcao Publica, the National Public 
Administration Council, established pursuant to Decreo No. 14/87, dated May 20, 1987, 
issued by the Borrower’s Government and referred to under Part A of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement".
Schedule 1:
Categories 1, 2, 3, and 7 paragraph 1, shall be amended and a new Category (8) 
is created to read as follows:
(1)
Consultants’
1,158,700
100%
services, studies 
and audits
(2)
Equipment,
  842,940
100%
supplies and
materials
(3)
Training
1,778,360
90%
(7)
Unallocated
2,220,000
(8)
Operating Costs
  200,000
100%
The following new sub-paragraph (c) is added in paragraph 2:
"  "Operating Costs" means the incremental operating costs incurred under Part  
B the Project on account of office supplies, utilities and fuel for Project vehicles." 
Schedule 2:
Part A.1 shall be amended to read as follows:
"MAE’s Administrative Development and Planning Unit (NDA):
Page  2
(a)
Establishment and operation of NDA; and
(b)
Supporting the implementation and dissemination of NDA’s work through: 
(i) carrying out local Seminars and Workshops and analyses of civil service reform; 
and (ii) reproduction of reports and materials".
Schedule 3:
Part C.1 shall be amended to read as follows:
"International or local shopping
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $30,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $800,000 may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association."
The following new paragraph 3 is added in Part C:
"3. Local Competitive Bidding:
Equipment and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less, up to 
an aggregate amount of $1,000,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory 
to the Association.
Schedule 6:
Part A, shall be amended to read as follows:
1.
"Public Administration National Council (CNFP)
(a)
An Interministerial Council, established by the Borrower’s Government, 
with the following membership:
Chairperson:
Minister of State Administration
Members:
Minister of Labour
Minister of Justice
Minister of Finance
One member appointed by
OTM (Workers’ Union)
(b)
Other Ministers and relevant personalities such as Ministers of Planning 
and Education, the Rector of UEM or the Attorney General may be called to participate 
in the meetings of the CNFP.
2.
The CNFP shall be responsible, inter alia, for the formulation and coordination 
of the Capacity Building Strategy.
3.
The CNFP shall meet regularly and frequently, at least twelve times a year, as 
it is established by law.
Part B.1 shall be amended to read as follows:
(a)
Administrative Development and Planning Unit (NDA):
"In support of CNFP, NDA shall be responsible, inter alia, for the following:
(A) Development of a phased plan for the implementation of the 
Borrower’s Capacity Building Strategy;
(B) Development of strategies and implementation plans for civil service 
reform, recommending and drafting policy changes;
(C) Development of an institutional strategy and plan for MAE itself; 
and
(D) Implementation of Part A.1 of the Project.
Page  3
(b)
(i) Direccao Nacional da Funcao Publica shall be responsible, inter alia, 
for the coordination of Part A of the Project and for carrying out Parts A.2, A.4 and 
A.5 (b) of the Project (...)."
The date in Part D.II shall be amended to read "December 31, 1995".
Paragraph (b) in Part D.II shall be amended to read: "employ staff for MAE; 
and".
Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing by countersigning and dating 
the form of confirmation on the two original copies of this letter provided to you and 
returning one original as countersigned to us.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Katherine Marshall
Director
Southern Africa Department
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By /s/ F. Salomao
Authorized Representative
Date: September 2, 1995
