CREDIT NUMBER 2437 MOZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Capacity Building: Public Sector and
Legal Institutions Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MO2AMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2437 MOZ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    , 1993, between REPUBLIC
OF MOZAMBIQUE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
WHEREAS: (B) the Association has received a letter dated
August 6, 1992, from the Borrower describing its capacity building
strategy, (the Capacity Building Strategy) and declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of said Capacity Building
Strategy;
WHEREAS: (C) the Borrower has received from the Swedish
International Development Agency (SIDA) a grant (the SIDA Grant) to
assist in the financing of Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in a bilateral agreement (the
SIDA Grant Agreement) entered into between the Borrower and SIDA;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿2
(a)   "CEJ" means Centro de Estudcs Judiciarios, the Center
for Judicial Studies to be established by the Borrower and referred
to under Part B.2 (h) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(b)   "DAF" means Departamento de Administragao e Financas,
the Department of Administration and Finance of MAE, as hereinafter
defined;
(c)   "GP" means Gabinete de Planeamento, the Planning Unit of
MAE, established pursuant to Despacho No. 147/92 dated July 6, 1992,
issued by the Minister of State Administration of the Borrower, as
hereinafter defined;
(d)   "IC" means Comisslo Inter Ministerial the Inter-
ministerial Committee established pursuant to Despacho dated July
20, 1992, issued by the Borrower's Prime Minister and referred to
under Part A of Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
(e)   "MAE" means Ministerio de Administrao Estatal, the
Ministry of State Administration of the Borrower;
(f)   "MOJ" means Ministerio da Justiga, the Ministry of
Justice of the Borrower;
(g)   "MULEIDE" means Mulher Lei e Desenvolvimento, the
Women's Association for Law and Development established pursuant to
its Statutes approved on June 20, 1992;
(h)   "SLCC" means the Strengthening of Legal Capabilities
Component described under Part B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(i)   "UEM"  means   Universidade  Eduardo   Mondlane,  the
Borrower's University;
(j)   "WG" means the Working Group established pursuant to
Despacho, dated July 14, 1992, issued by the Borrower's Minister of
Justice, and referred to under Part B of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement;
(k)   "fiscal year" or "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year
which runs from January 1 to December 31;


﻿(1)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to a Letter of Agreement dated January 6, 1992 and
countersigned by the Borrower on February 6, 1992;
(m)   "Special Account" means any of the accounts referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(n)   "Capacity Building Action Plan" means the actions,
programs and activities designed by the Borrower to fulfill the
objectives of its Capacity Building Strategy.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to ten million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 10,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment: (i) Special Account A shall be opened for the
purposes of Part A of the Project (MAE Account); and (ii) Special
Account B shall be opened for the purposes of Part B of the Project
(SLCC Account). Deposits ii To, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accoriance with the provisions of Schedules
4 and 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparatipu Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of


﻿-4-
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
April 1, 2003 and ending October 1, 2032. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on April 1, 2012 shall be one


﻿-5-
percent (1Z) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2Z) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenevert (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall exceed $790 in
constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the  Executive Directors of    the Association, and    after  due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out: (i) Part A of the
Project through MAE; and (ii) Part B of the Project through the WG,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
educational, administrative and technical practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.


﻿-6-
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 6
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than October 31,
1993, and October 31 of each year thereafter, throughout Project
implementation, prepare and submit to the Association, for its
review and comments: (a) an annual progress report on the
disbursement profile, financing plan and fiscal consequences of the
proposed salary incentive fund referred to under Part A.5 of the
Project; and (b) an audit report prepared by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association, on the referred fund.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)   not later than December 31, 1994, complete and submit to
the Association, for its review and comments, MAE's draft plan for
the restructuring of the civil service career system, in accordance
with technical and financial terms satisfactory to the Association;
and
(b)   promptly thereafter: (i) approve said plan, taking into
account the recommendations made by the Association; and (ii) take
all necessary administrative and institutional z,,easures to implement
said plan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower and the Association shall:
(a) not later than November 30 of each year, until the
completion of the Project, conduct an annual Project implementation
review to: (i) monitor progress in ca%rying out the Project, taking
into account performance indicators and evaluation criteria agreed
between the Borrower and the Association; (ii) review, update,
refine and approve work plans for Parts A and B of the Project for
the upcoming year, and the respective cost estimates; (iii)
coordinate all other related activities financed by other donor
agencies. Representatives of such agencies may be invited to
participate in these discussions; (iv) assess the impact of the


﻿-7-
salary incentive fund referred to under Part A.5 of the Project, on
civil   service  retention   and   performance;   (v) review  the
recommendations of the studies referred to under Part B.2 (h) of the
Project, and their repercussion in the Project management staff
referred to under Part B.2 of Schedule 6 to this Agreemient; and (vi)
exchange   information  among   staff  responsible   for  Project
implementation, as set forth in Parts B and C of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement  and propose   coordinated  solutions to   any  current
implementation issues;
(b)   not later than October 31 of each year, throughout
Project implementation, furnish to the Association a report in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, including:
(i)   an  evaluation  of  progress  achieved  by  the
Borrower, in general, and by each ministry or
entity responsible for project implementation, in
particular, in carrying out the Project, taking
into account the provisions of the respective
annual work plan;
(ii) a draft work plan to be carried out throughout
the upcoming year, including: (A) description of
activities to be undertaken under the Project;
(B) detailed training programs and action plan to
select and employ technical assistance financed
under  the  Project;   (C)  a  financing  plan,
indicating other available cofinancing sources
for each activity, and identifying specific donor
agencies invited to participate in the review;
and (D) a procurement program detailing goods and
services to be procured under the Project;
(c)   (i) not later than November 30, 1995, carry out a mid-
term Project implementation review to evaluate, inter alia, the
following: (A) update the Capacity Building Strategy and Capacity
Building Action Plan; and (B) review the Project objectives taking
into account the updated Strategy and Action Plan; and
(d)   promptly after completing the reviews, carry out those
recommendations arising out of said reviews, as agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, during the execution of the
Project, continue to maintain MAE, WG and other staff responsible


﻿for Project implementation, as set forth in Parts B and C of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement, in adequate numbers, and with
experience, technical qualifications, and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in   accordance   with   appropriate    auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;


﻿-9-
(ii) retain, until at least one year        after the
Association has received the audit for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable  the  Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure   that  such  records  and  accounts   are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   that an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Borrower will be able to carry out
its Capacity Building Strategy and Capacity Building Action Plan;
(b)   that the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction
shall have takeu any action concerning the Borrower's legal and
public administration sectors, that would materially affect the
ability of the Borrower, MAE and WG to perform any of their
respective obligations under this Agreement;
(c)   that Despacho dated July 14, 1992 issued by the Minister
of Justice of the Borrower establishing the WG shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of WG to perform any of its
obligations under this Agreement; and
(d)   that Despacho No. 147/92 dated July 6, 1992 issued by
the Minister of State Administration of the Borrower establishing GP


﻿- 10 -
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely the ability of GP to perform
any of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower;and
(b)   the event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   that the Borrower has employed the staff responsible for
Project implementation referred to under Part C of Schedule 6 to
this  Agreement,   with   experience,   terms  of   reference  and
qualifications satisfactory to the Association;
(b)   that the Borrower has selected the Project Adv-sor
referred to under Part B.2 (f) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, wirth
experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association; and
(c)   that the Borrower has furnished documentary evidence
satisfactory to the Association, certifying the Borrower's formal
approval of its Capacity Building Action Plan.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as additional matters
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions,
to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the
Association, namely, that this Agreement has been duly ratified by
the Borrower's Council of Ministers and is legally binding upon the
Borrower in accordance with its terms.


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Governor of Bank of Mozambique Banco de
Mogambique is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Banco de Mogambique
Departamento de Relagoes Internacionais
Avenida 25 de Setembro 1695
P.O. Box 423
Maputo, Mozambique
Cable address:                Telex:
MOBANCO                   6576/7 BMHMO
Maputo
Facsimile:
29178
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 12
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                          7
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          Z of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
Part A of the Project
(1)   Consultants' ser-        1,260,000       100Z
vices, studies
and audits
(2)   Equipment, supplies        140,000       100%
and materials
(3)   Training                2,380,000        90%
Part B of the Project
(4)   Consultants' ser-        1,400,000       100%
vices, studies
and audits
(5)   Equipment, supplies       490,000        100%
and materials


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          Z of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               SDR Eguivalent)      to be Financed
(6)   Training                 2,810,000        90%
(7)   Unallocated              2,420,000
TOTAL               10,900,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
(b)   (i) expenditures under Category (3), unless the Borrower
has completed and submitted to the Association for its approval,
training programs for Parts A.1 (b) (i); A.2 (b); A.3 (c); and A.3
(f) of the Project; and (ii) expenditures under Category (6), unless
the Borrower has completed and submitted to the Association for its
approval, training programs for Parts B.1 (d); B.2 (a); B.2 (c); B.2
(e); B.2 (f); B.2 (g) and B.3 (d) of the Project, to be carried out
during the first year of the Project, which shall include, inter
alia, the following: (i) type and number of trainees; (ii) location
and institution where training will be received; (iii) objectives
and length of training activity; and (iv) estimated budget.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) strengthen the
Borrower's civil service reform program and improve public
administration and development management skills; and (b) strengthen
legal institutions, including the judiciary, and build up legal
professional skills.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Improving Public Administration and Development
Management
1.     MAE's Planning Unit (GP):
(a)   establishment and operation of GP; and
(b)   supporting the implementation and dissemination of GP's
work through: (i) carrying out local seminars and workshops and
analyses of civil service reform; and (ii) reproduction of reports
and materials.
2.    Strengthening of the Borrower's personnel administration
capabilities:
(a)   strengthening of MAE's Direcclo Nacional da Funglo
Pfiblica;
(b)   training of sectoral ministry staff, at central and
provincial levels, in personnel administration techniques;
(c)   strengthening of   the personnel units of     sectoral
ministries; and
(d)    production and provision of personnel forms, files and
operational manuals.
3.    Supporting MAE's institutional development capabilities:
(a)   strengthening of MAE's DAF;


﻿- 16 -
(b)   design and implementation of a computerized budgetary
control system within MAE's DAF;
(c)   provision of short-term local training for MAE's DAF
staff in accounting, procurement and supplies management techniques;
(d)   provision of overseas fellowships for graduate training
in public administration and management for MAE staff, at the
central and provincial levels;
(e)   acquisition of equipment and supplies; and
(f)   provision of local training for MAE staff in civil
service reform and capacity building coordination.
4.    Establishment and operation of a management strengthening
mechanism to support selected management development activities.
5.    (a)   Establishment and operation of the Borrower's civil
service staff retention and incentive fund; and
(b)   strengthening of the Borrower's capabilities to monitor
and assess the impact of said fund.
Part B:     Strengthening of Legal Institutions
1.    Strengthening of strategic planning capabilities of legal
institutions:
(a)   carrying out about three workshops to: (i) review the
capacity, scope of work, institutional arrangements and staffing of
the Borrower's main legal institutions; and (ii) recommend eventual
adjustments   to   the   functional,   organizational,   staffing,
administrative and professional aspects of said legal institutions
and their respective training programs;
(b)   carrying out diagnostic studies of the Law School to
recommend a strategic approach in the design and implementation of
its current and future training programs;
(c)   organization of a National Conference on the legal
profession in Mozambique;
(d)   provision of short-term professional training, including
study-tours, local seminars, practical internships and attendance at


﻿- 17 -
conferences, to familiarize legal staff with other legal systems and
traditions; and
(e)   strengthening  of  the   Borrower's  capabilities  to
periodically review and refine its strategic approach to build legal
capacity.
2.    Strengthening of legal and paralegal services:
(a)   provision of professional graduate training for lawyers
and Law School professors in, inter alia, international, financial,
economic,   tax,   commercial,   contract,   administrative  law,
environmental law, and alternate dispute resolution methods;
(b)   design and implementation of practical local training
programs for lawyers and paralegal staff;
(c)   carrying out specialized legal seminars in, inter alia,
contract negotiations, commercial law, corporate law, mortgage law,
securities, capital markets, international economic law, banking law
and maritime law;
(d)   supporting   twinning   arrangements  with   relevant
international legal institutions;
(e)   provision of logistical and administrative support to
legal training activities carried out by UEM's Law School in the
provinces of Rampula and Sofala;
(f)   design and implementation of a pre-service and in-
service training program for magistrates, court clerks and judiciary
staff at large;
(g)   provision of fellowships for overseas training for
magistrates, Law School professors and legal staff;
(h)   carrying out studies to assess the institutional,
financial and technical impact of the establishment of CEJ; and
(i)   strengthening of the Borrower's legal reform program.
3.    Facilitating dissemination of the law and administration of
Justice:


﻿- 18 -
(a)   design of an inter-library and interinstitutional loan
system for legal books and materials, and training of legal library
staff;
(b)   acquisition  of  books, legal    materials,  journals,
software, equipment and supplies;
(c)   design and implementation of a legal information system;
and
(d)   training of staff responsible for the implementation and
maintenance of the selected legal information system.
4.    Supporting    the   institutional   development   of   legal
institutions:
(a)   logistical and administrative support to start-up and
operate the Administrative Tribunal;
(b)   logistical and administrative support to start-up the
CEJ;
(c)   strengthening of the Bar Association;
(d)   strengthening  of  the   implementation  of  MLEIDE's
programs; and
(f)   strengthening  of  the  WG's   Project  implementation
capabilities.
5.    Strengthening of Project implementation capabilities.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    Goods shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by
a third-party inspection firm.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Mozambique may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    International or Local Shopping. Items or groups of items
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $400,000
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Administrator.
2.    Direct Contracting. Legal materials, books, journals, and
software under Part B of the Project, in an amount not exceeding the
aggregate amount provided under Part C.1 of this Schedule, may be
procured under direct contracting in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 20 -
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract afe to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedules 4 and 5 to this Agreement,
respectively.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
3.    The figure of 1OZ is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account A (MAE Account)
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $400,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals   of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿- 22 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.  All   such   deposits  shall   be
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph     3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the  total unwithdrawn   amount of   the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for Part A of the Project, less
the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to Part A of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories for Part A of the Project shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that


﻿- 23 -
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have letermined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account B (SLCC Account)
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (4), (5)
and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $450,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
%b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿- 25 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph     3 of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the   total unwithdrawa amount of     the  Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for Part B of the Project, less
the amoun of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to Part B of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter,
withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for Part
B of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit


﻿- 26 -
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Accounts (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 6
Implementation Program
Part A:     Proiect Coordination
Interministerial Committee (IC)
1.    (a)   An interministerial committee shall be established by
the Borrower's Prime Minister with the following membership:
Chairperson: Minister of State Administration; and Co-chairpersons:
Minister of Finance and Minister of Planning. Other members of the
IC are Ministers of Education, Labor and Justice.
(b)   The Rector of UEM and the Attorney General may be called
to participate in the meetings of the IC.
2.    The IC shall be responsible, inter alia, for the formulation
and coordination of the Capacity Building Strategy.
3.    The IC shall meet regularly and frequently, and at least ten
times during the first year of the Project.
4.    The GP, as hereinafter defined, shall act as the technical
secretariat for the IC.
Part B:     Institutions responsible for Project Implementation
1.    Part A of the Project:
(a)   Planning Unit (GP)
(i)   A planning unit shall be established by the
Minister of State Administration as the technical
unit within MAE responsible for the coordination
of Part A of the Project.
(ii)   GP shall be responsible, inter alia, for the
following:
(A) provision of a secretariat function to
support the IC;


﻿28 -
(B) development   of  a  phased  plan  for  the
implementation of the Borrover's Capacity
Building Strategy;
(C) development of strategies and implementation
plans for civil service reform, recommending
and drafting policy changes, and overseeing
subsequent implementation;
(D) coordination of programs implemented by the
various directorates of MAE, including the
development of an institutional strategy and
plan for MAE itself; and
(E) implementation of Parts A.1, A.4 and A.5 (b)
of the Project.
(b)   (i)   Direegio Nacional da Fungio PU-blica shall carry
out Part A.2 of the Project;
(ii)   Ministry of Finance shall carry out Part A.5 (a)
of the Project; and
(iii)   Departamento de Recursos Humanos of MAE shall
carry out Parts A.3 (d) and A.3 (f) of the
Project.
(c)   Department of Administration and Finance (DAF)
(i)   DAF shall be responsible for the implementation
of Parts A.3 (a), A.3 (b), A.3 (c), and 3 (e) of
the Project.
(ii)   The following staff shall be appointed to carry
out DAF's implementation tasks:
(A)   Accountant;
(B)   Assistant Accountant;
(C) Procurement Officer; and
(D) Local Informaton Systems Advisor.


﻿- 29 -
2.    Part B of the Project:
(a)   The Ministry of Justice (MOJ) is responsible for overall
coordination and implementation of SLCC in close cooperation with
the Supreme Court, the Attorney General's Office, the Administrative
Tribunal and UEM. In discharging its responsibilities, MOJ shall be
assisted by a Working Group (WG), as hereinafter defined.
Working Group (WG)
(i)   The WG shall be composed of a representative and
an alternate representative from each of the
following institutions: MOJ, Supreme Court, the
Attorney General's Office, the Administrative
Tribunal and UEM's Law School.
(ii) The WG shall approve its operational regulations,
and will obtain appropriate delegation of powers
to efficiently coordinate and implement Project
activities, disburse Credit funds and carry out
procurement of goods and services.
(iii)   The WG shall operate as an interinstitutional
body responsible, inter alia, for the following:
(A) recommending policy decisions related to
building legal and judicial capacity within
the scope of this Project;
(B)   updating the principles of a long-term
strategy to build professional capacity
within the legal profession;
(C)   negotiating technical assistance programs
within the legal and judicial sector; and
(D)   coordinating all existing and future donor
contributions to the sector, as well as,
keeping all interested agencies informed of
the development under the SLCC, and
avoiding duplication or overlapping of
efforts.
(iv)   The following staff shall be appointed to assist
the WG in carrying out its implementation tasks:


﻿- 30
(b)   Proiect Manager (PM)
A Project Manager with experience and qualifications
acceptable to the Association shall carry out day-to-day Project
management duties. The PM shall report directly to the Chairperson
of the WG.
(v)   The PM shall be responsible, inter alia, for the
following:
(A)   preparing annual action programs;
(B)   ensuring     coordination    among     the
institutions represented in the WG;
(C)   interliasing    with   other    government
agencies, the Association, other donor
agencies and appropriate private sector
entities, such as the Bar Association;
(D)   integrating the annual reports prepared by
the WG members and submitting them to the
WG for consideration at the annual Project
Implementation reviews;
(E)   supervision and monitoring of procurement
of goods and services necessary under the
Project,   including  calling   for  bids,
evaluation   of  bids   and   awarding  of
contracts;
(F)   maintaining Project files and records;
(G)   assisting   the  WG   in  the   selection,
contracting and supervision of consultants'
services;
(H)   supervising  the   financial  aspects  and
accounts of the Project;
(I)   selecting,  contracting   and  supervising
independent auditors; and
(J)   managing and supervising office staff.


﻿-31-
(c)   Deputy Project Manager/Accountant (DPM)
(vi)   A Deputy Project Manager with experience and
qualifications acceptable to the Association
shall  be   appointed  to   assist  the   PM  in
discharging his or her responsibilities.
(vii)   The DPM shall be responsible, inter alia, for:
(A)   keeping  financial  records   and  Project
accounts, managing Special Account B; and
preparing withdrawal applications to ensure
timely disbursements of Credit funds;
(B)   preparing  and submitting all materials
necessary to carry out the audits;
(C)   ensuring timely payment of suppliers and
consultants; and
(D)   act as PH in his or her absence from office
to avoid Project implementation delays.
(d)   Administrative Officer/Procurement (AO/P)
(viii)   An Administrative Officer with experience and
qualifications acceptable to the Association
shall be appointed to assist the PM with
administrative and procurement matters.
(ix)   The AO/P shall be responsible, inter alia, for:
(A)   carrying out all procurement ;f goods and
services necessary under Part B of the
Project and ensuring that the guidelines
and procedures described in Schedule 3 to
this Agreement are followed;
(B)   day-to-day administrative duties;
(C)   providing    and   contracting    adequate
maintenance for Project equipment, offices
and computers; and


﻿- 32 -
(D)   ensuring that Project correspondence and
documentation are correctly kept and filed.
(e)   Support Staff
(x) The Borrower shall supply requisite secretarial
and aupport administrative staff to the office of
the PM.
(f)   Project Advisor
(xi)   The WG shall select, as a Project Advisor (PA), a
qualified legal expert or experts who shall
provide overall advice to the WG on Project
technical and administrative coordination and
achievement of Project objectives in accordance
with provisions of this Agreement and the
Borrower's strategy for the sector;
(xii)   The PA shall be responsible, inter alia, for the
following:
(A)   assisting  the  WG   in  identifying   and
negotiating with foreign lecturers, legal
experts and consultants responsible for the
delivery of training activities under Part
B of the Project;
(B)   supplying the WG with     information  and
recommendations on the design of terms of
reference and contractual terms for the
selection and employment of legal experts
to assist the WG in carrying out Part B of
the Project;
(C)   provision   of  logistical   support   and
coordination to carry out local courses,
seminars requiring the participation of
foreign experts and interliasing with
foreign institutions receiving Mozambican
trainees;
(D)   assisting in designing and implementing
twinning    arrangements   with    foreign
institutions;


﻿- 33 -
(E)   identifying  and  contacting  appropriate
training   institutions   for  Mozambican
lawyers, law professors and students;
(F)   assessing needs and taking all necessary
measures to facilitate the acquisition of
legal materials, books, manuals, journals
and software; and
(G)   assisting the PM and the DPM in making all
necessary   arrangements   for   effective
fulfillment of Project objectives and
utilization of Credit funds.
(g)   The WG shall be responsible for the implementation of
Part B of the Project, except for Parts B.1 (b), B.2 (e) of the
Project for which the UEM's Law shall be primarily responsible.
Part C:     Key Project Implementation Staff
1.    Part A   of  the Project: (a) GP: two full-time public
administration experts; and (b) DAF: DAF's Accountant.
2.    Part B of the Project within WG: (i) Project Manager; and (ii)
Deputy Project Manager.
Part D:     Schedule of actions to be carried out by the Borrower
during Project implementation.
Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the following:
1.    Part A of the Proiect
I.    The Borrower shall not later than three months after the
Effective   Date   legally   establish  GP   with   staffing  and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association and referred to
under Part B.1 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
II.   The Borrower shall not later than December 31, 1993:
(a)   employ all staff mentioned in Part B (c) (ii) of the
Project;


﻿- 34 -
(b)   employ staff for MAE's GP; and
(c) develop MAE' s DAF computerized budgeting control system.
III. The Borrower shall not later than December 31, 1994:
submit to the Association for its review and comment the
training strategy for public administration; the
proposals for the public administration career structure
to include provincial and district experience as
promotion criteria; an incentive policy to improve
attractiveness   of    district   posts;   and   MAE's
institutional development strategy.
IV.   The Borrower shall not later than June 30, 1995:
submit to the Association for its review and comment:
revised regulations on the civil service to include
experience and training as career advancement criteria;
a training plan for the newly established Human Resource
Units in sectoral ministries, provinces and districts.
V.    The Borrower shall not later than December 31, 1995:
carry out the training of trainers for Human Resource
Units in sectoral ministries, provinces and districts.
2.    Part B of the Proiect
(a)   (i) Not later than, October 31, 1993, the WG shall carry
out the first strategic workshop in accordance with an
agenda and budget agreed with the Association, and
submitted for its approval one month in advance; (ii)
two other workshops shall be carried out during Project
implementation, at dates previously discussed and agreed
with the Association, but not later than June 30, 1993.


﻿- 35 -
(b)   Not later than June 1, 1996, the WG shall organize and
carry out a National Conference on the legal profession
in Mozambique, with the participation of government and
private sector agencies, and in accordance with an
agenda and budget agreed with the Association.
(a)   (i) During the first Project year: the Law School shall
carry out studies on, inter alia, teaching methodologies
and comparative legal terminology. Not later than six
months after the Effective Date, the Law School shall
prepare and submit to the Association, for its approval,
terms of reference and short lists of consultants
identified to assist in the carrying out of said
studies; (ii) throughout Project implementation, the Law
School shall carry out, other diagnostic studies on,
inter alia, assessment of the quality of undergraduate
and graduate training, including relevance of its
curriculum and development of its teaching corps, in
accordance with an action plan and timetable agreed with
the Association during the first Project implementation
review.
(d)   Not later than three months after the Effective Date,
and during the first quarter of each year thereafter,
the WG shall prepare and submit to the Association, for
its review and comments, an action program and budget
necessary to carry out the professional training
described under Part B.1 (d) of the Project.
(e)   Not later than February 1 of each year during Project
implementation, the WG shall complete and submit to the
Association for its approval, the training programs to
be carried out during the upcoming academic year, and
referred to under Part B.2 of the Project, including
inter alia, list of candidates and qualifications,
institution where training would be received, length of
training program, cost and commitment to work for the
respective agency for a similar period of time.
(f)   During the first year of the Project, but not later than
September 1993 the Law School and other legal
institutions shall identify and negotiate possible
twinning arrangements with relevant foreign academic and
professional institutions.


﻿- 36 -
(g)   Not later than November 30, 1993, prepare and submit to
the Association, for its review and comments, terms of
reference to carry out the studies described under Part
B.2 (h) of the Project.
(h)   Not later than two weeks before the starting date of the
first strategic workshop, the WG shall prepare a report
identifying the technical and financial features of the
legal information system described under Part B.3 (c) of
the Project to be put in place during Project
implementation, on the basis of the recommendations of
the diagnostic consultancy to be selected and employed
promptly after the Effective Date.
(i) Not later than December 30 of each year during Project
implementation, the WG shall prepare and submit to the
Association for its approval a description and estimate
budget for the acquisition of legal books, materials,
software and equipment estimate to be procured during
the upcoming year.
(j)   Not later than three months after the Effective Date,
the Borrower shall employ the Project Advisor in
accordance with terms of reference and contractual terms
satisfactory to the Association.
(k)   Not later than six months after the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall employ the Administrative Officer/
Procurement and support staff described under Parts B.2
(d) and B.2 (e) of the Project with qualifications,
experience and terms of reference acceptable to the
Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


