                                                 Documentof
                                               The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                      ReportNo. 30293-HR



          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT

                                         PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                                   FOR A

                     PROPOSEDPROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN

                             INTHE AMOUNT OF EUR15O MILLION

                                (US$184.9MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                      TO

                                     THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA




                                                August 10,2005




Poverty Reductionand EconomicManagement Unit
Europeand CentralAsia Region




This documenthas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipientsonly inthe performanceoftheir official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                                GOVERNMENTFISCALYEAR:
                                    (January 1-December31)

                                 CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                                        (as o f April 14,2005)
                                  Currency UnitUS$l-HRK 5.70

                                WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                                            Metric System

                           ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS



CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                     ICR       Implementation Completion Report
CEEC   Central and Eastern European Countries          IT        Information Technology
CEFTA  Central European Free Trade Agreement           IMF       InternationalMonetary Fund
CEM    Country Economic Memorandum                     ILO       InternationalLabor Organization
CFAA   Country Financial Accountability                MTEF      Medium-Term Expenditure
       Assessment                                                Framework
CPAR   County Procurement Assessment Report            N A T O   North Atlantic Treaty Organization
CNB    CroatianNational Bank                           OED       Operations Evaluation Department
CPF    CroatiaPrivatization Fund                       OECD      Organizationfor Economic Cooperation
csw    Centers o f Social Work                                   and Development
DfID   Department o f International Development        P A L     Programmatic Adjustment Loan
EC     European Community                              PAYGO Pay As You Go
EU     European Union                                  PRF       Pensioners RestitutionFund
FDI    ForeignDirect Investment                        R&D       Research and Development
FIAS   Foreign Investment Advisory Service             S A A     Stability and Association Agreement
FSAF'  Financial Sector Assessment Program             S A L     Structural Adjustment Loan
GDP    Gross Domestic Product                          S A P     Systems Applications and Products
GFS    General Finance statistics                      SBA       Stand By Arrangement
HAMAG Agency for SME Development                       SME       Small and Medium Enterprises
HBOR   CroatianBank for Reconstruction and             UNDP      UnitedNations Development
       Development                                               Program
HDZ    Christian Democratic Union Party                USAID     UnitedStates Agency for
HRK    Croatian Kuna                                             InternationalDevelopment
HZZO   Croatian Institute for Health Insurance
HZ     Croatian Railways
IBm InternationalBankofReconstruction
       and Development



                                 Vice President:        Shigeo Katsu
                               Country Director:        Anand K.Seth
                                Sector Manager:         Bernard Funck
                              Task Team Leader:         Satu Kahkonen

                                                                                            FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




                                          THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
                                 PROGRAMMATICADJUSTMENT LOAN

                                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS



 PROGRAMSUMMARY               .........................................................................................................................      i11

 I INTRODUCTION
  .                        ..............................................................................................................................     5

 I1. RECENT POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS                                                           ..................................................  5
    A. RecentPoliticalDevelopments...........................................................................................
     B. RecentEconomic Developments........................................................................................                                   5
                                                                                                                                                              6
     C. Investment Climate .............................................................................................................                      8
     D. Poverty................................................................................................................................ 9
     E. Status ofthe IMFProgram inCroatia.................................................................................                                    9
 111 GOVERNMENT'S DEVELOPMENT PRIORITIES
    .                                                                                   .................................................................     10

 I V WORLD BANK GROUP STRATEGY AND PROPOSEDPAL
    .                                                                                                     ................................................    10
     A. Linkto CAS...................................................................................................................... 10
     B. Objectives of PAL.............................................................................................................                        11
                                                                                                                                                              11
     D. LessonsLearnedfrom Prior Operations...........................................................................
     C. Analytic Underpinnings of PAL.......................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                              12
     E. Coordination with Other Donors ......................................................................................                                 12
 V . THE PROPOSEDPALREFORMPROGRAM                                            ...........................................................................      13
     A. Overview ofProposedPAL.............................................................................................. 13
     B. Pillar I:ImprovingInvestment Climate ...........................................................................                                      15
                                                                                                                                                             21
     D. Pillar 111: EnhancingFiscal Sustainability of Sector Programs.......................................
     C. Pillar 11: Strengthening Governance ................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                             24
  VI THE PROPOSEDLOAN
    .                                 ................................................................................................................        29
     A. Actions to be Taken Prior to Board..................................................................................                                 29
     B. LoanAdministration .........................................................................................................                          30
                                                                                                                                                              31
     D. Implementation andMonitoring.......................................................................................
     C. Environmental Aspects .....................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                              31
     E. Benefits andRisks............................................................................................................. 32



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                   .
without World Bank authorization.

                                  THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
                            PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN

                                         CONTENTS (cont'd)


SCHEDULES

Schedule 1:    Letter o f DevelopmentPolicy
Schedule 2:    P A L Policy Matrix

ANNEXES

Annex 1:       Croatia - At a Glance
Annex 2:       Croatia - Social Indicators
Annex 3:       Croatia - Key Economic Indicators
Annex 4:       Croatia - Key Exposure Indicators
Annex 5:       Croatia -  Operations Portfolio (IBRD and grants)
Annex 6:       Croatia -  Statement o f IFC's - Heldand DisbursedPortfolio for Croatia
Annex 7:       Croatia -  Selected Indicatorso f Bank Portfolio Performance and Management
Annex 8:       Croatia  - IFC and MIGA Program, FY 2002-2005
Annex 9:       Croatia - Summary o f Non-lending Services
Annex 10:      FundRelations Note

FIGURES

Figure 1:      Evolution o f Increased External Vulnerability

TABLES

Table 1:       PublicPrivate Sector Comparators
Table 2:        Summary of the Proposed ReformProgram


BOX:

Box 1:          Relatively Sound Banking System




The Bank task team includes Satu Kahkonen (Task Team Leader), Matthew Andrews, Sanja Madzarevic-Sujster,
Tony Verheijen (ECSPE); Irina Kichigina (LEGEC); Zoran Anusic, Shiyan Chao, Ivan Drabek, Philip Goldman
(ECSHD); Vladimir Kreacic (ECSPF); Albert Martinez (ECCUS); Stjepan Gabric, Yash Pal Kedia, Sunja Kim,
Astrid Manroth (ECSIE); Karin Shepardson (ECSSD). Peer reviewers are Simeon Djankov (CICMA), Richard
Messick (PFWPS), Mamta Murthi (ECAVP), andAmitabha Mukherjee (EASPR).




                                                  11

                        THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA

                 PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN


                              PROGRAMSUMMARY


Borrower:       The Republic o f Croatia

Amount:         EURl50 million (US$184.9 million equivalent)

Terms:          Fixed Spread Loan, bullet repayments payable in ten years, at six-month
                LIBOR plus fixed spread for Fixed Spread Loans denominated inEUR.

Description:    The proposed loan is the first in a series o f three Programmatic Adjustment
                Loans (PAL) which would aim to support enhanced economic growth through:
                (i)improving the investment climate, and (ii)      reducing size and improving
                efficiency o f the public sector.    Fulfillment o f EU accession criteria and
                successful EU integration call for intensive structural and institutionalreforms,
                and the proposed PAL would support the Government inthat effort.

                PAL would specifically support:

                     Improvements in the investment climate by re-launching the privatization
                     or liquidation o f state-owned enterprises, improving financial discipline o f
                     enterprises, reducing the cost o f doing business, and strengthening the
                    judiciary.

                     Efforts to improve governance by rationalizing and improving efficiency o f
                     public administration, and improving public expenditure management.

                     Measures to enhancefiscal sustainability of sector programs by addressing
                     health financing, rationalizing social benefits, improving fiscal and social
                     sustainability o f the pension system, and fiscal sustainability o f railways
                     operations.

Benefits:       The proposed P A L will help the Government define and implement a medium-
                term reform program to achieve its goals o f enhanced economic growth and
                progress towards EU accession. The reforms supported will be consistent with
                EUaccession requirement. They aim to strengthen the public sector's capacity
                to carry out its role more effectively, and provide an enabling environment for
                private sector growth.

Risks:          Several risks will attend the reformprogram under PAL:

                    Political risks remain highas the country has a coalition Government with a
                    mere one seat majority in Parliament, and several proposed reforms are
                    ambitious and politically challenging. However, reforms to be supported



                                          111

                    under P A L are consistent with the EU accession agenda, which i s expected
                    to mitigate the risk.

                  0 Capacity weaknesses could impede implementation of proposed reforms.
                    Capacity in the Government i s uneven and limited in several ministries,
                    which may hinder the reform effort. However, the planned investment
                    projects that complement PAL and technical assistance by other donors will
                    be designed to mitigate some o f the capacity constraints.


                  0 Extemal shocks that have adverse effect on regional stability could
                    seriously harm the reform effort.      Given Croatia's heavy reliance on
                    tourism revenues, it i s vulnerable to any deterioration in regional stability.
                    PAL supported reforms to improve the investment climate are expected to
                    mitigate the riskthrough diversification o f economic activities, though.

                  0 Giventhe highdegree o f euroization o f the Croatian economy, the Croatian
                    financial sector remains vulnerable to exchange rate risks.         The LMF
                    program i s expected to address the risk.

                     Institutionalreforms are complicated and take time. Progress inmany areas
                     will be gradual and measuring the impact o f reforms difficult. Lack o f
                     immediate, tangible results may weaken the resolve to keep the momentum
                     going and raise questions about the results o f the program. However, the
                     policy matrix will provide a roadmap for reforms to assess Government's
                     commitment.

Estimated
Disbursements:    EURl50 million will be disbursed upon Loan effectiveness.

ProjectIDNumber:  PE-PO82278




                                         iv

                                        IBRDPROGRAMDOCUMENT FOR

                       A PROPOSEDPROGRAMMATICADJUSTMENT LOANTO

                                          THE REPUBLICOF CROATIA


                                             I. INTRODUCTION

1.       This ProgramDocument presents the first Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL) to the Republic
o f Croatia in the amount o f EUR15O million (US$184.9 million equivalent). The proposed P A L would
be the centerpiece o f Bank's assistance to Croatia in2004-2007, and it i s expected to be complemented by
investment loans in select areas, and analytical and advisory services. The operation has been prepared
under OD 8.60, since its preparation started before OP 8.60 became effective.

2.       The objective o f the proposed P A L would be to enhance economic growth in Croatia through (i)
improving the investment climate; and (ii)       reducing the size and improving efficiency o f the public sector.
The Croatian Government i s aspiring to join the European Union (EU), and fulfillment o f EU accession
criteria and successful EU integration call for the Government to launch intensive structural and
institutional reforms across sectors. The proposed PAL would support the Government inthis effort.

3.        The proposed P A L builds on achievements o f the prior Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL),' and
the reform program i s heavily based on the recommendations o f the Croatia Country Economic
Memorandum (CEM) o f 2003, that laid out a strategy for growth through EUintegration. The P A L series
i s proposed to operationalize a subset o f the strategy.

4.        The proposed reform program has been developed jointly with the Government, and it has been
coordinated with other development partners, inparticular with the International Monetary Fund(IMF) to
ensure consistency with the IMF's Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) in Croatia, and the European
Commission (EC) to ensure consistency with EUaccession requirements.


                  11.       RECENT POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS

                                         A.   Recent PoliticalDevelopments

5.        Croatia has moved past the initial challenges o f independence and, in the past few years, set its
sights on EU accession. The country has become a member o f the World Trade Organization and the
Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA), signed a Partnership for Peace agreement with
NATO, and successfully completed negotiations on a Stabilizationand Association Agreement (SAA).

6.        InNovember 2003 elections, the late President Tudjman's center-right Chnstian Democratic
Union party (HDZ) returned to power, and a new coalition Government was formed.                         The new
Government has reaffirmed Croatia's European orientation, aiming to make the EUaccession a reality.

7.        InApril 2004, the EuropeanCommissionissuedits opinion on Croatia's applicationfor European
Union (EU) membership2,recommendingthe European Council to open negotiations with Croatia, and in
June 2004 the European Council granted Croatia a candidate status. According to the analysis o f the



  SAL was closed in 2003.
  Croatia submitted its application for EUmembership on February 21,2003.



                                                             5

European Commission, Croatia: (i)s a functioning democracy, with stable institutions guaranteeing the
                                      i
rule o f law; (ii) be regarded as a functioning market economy; and (iii) be ina position to take on
                 can                                                               will
the other obligations o f membership inthe medium-term, provided considerable efforts are made to align
its legislation with acquis and ensure its implementation and enforcement. The EU Council endorsed the
EUAccession NegotiatingFramework but didnot open accession negotiations inMarch2005 as planned,
owing to an unmet political condition. Negotiations are expected to be opened later in2005.

                                   B.    RecentEconomicDevelopments

8.        Croatia's economy has undergone a profound transformation since the country gained
independence. Market laws and institutions have beenintroduced and the enormous real output decline in
the first war-torn years o f independence has been recovered.

9.        Solid, though moderating, economic growth and low inflation:                 Since the 1999 recession,
economic growth has picked up and inflation remained in single digits in Croatia. The real GDP growth
registered 5.2 percent in 2002, but started slowing down in 2003. In the first half o f 2003 domestic
activity-both    industrial production and retail sales-continued to be strong but, partly owing to
restrictive monetary policy to curb private sector credit growth, domestic output, industrial production,
and trade slowed down in the second half o f the year. The real GDP growth rate declined to 4.3 percent
in 2003, and slowed further to 3.8 percent in 2004. The average annual inflation remained low at 2.1
percent in2004.

10.       High, but narrowing, current account deficit: The economic recovery has been accompaniedby
highexternal current account deficit. The current account deficit gradually widened from 2.5 percent of
GDP in 2000 to 8.4 percent in 2002. Despite monetary tightening and stronger than projected tourism
receipts, the current account deficit remained high at 7.2 percent o f GDP in 2003, but declined to 4.9
percent in2004.

 11.      The current account deficit mirrors the trend in the trade deficit. The growth in merchandise
exports steadily declined in 2000-2003, whereas merchandise imports continued increasing, boosted by
highand rising public investments. However, while merchandise exports growth plummeted, exports of
services (in particular tourism and transportation) grew significantly. The steady growth in service
exports was not enough to outweigh the merchandise trade imbalance, though, and the trade deficit
widened. Preliminary data for 2004 suggest, however, that the trend may be changing: merchandise
exports grew in constant terms by about 14 percent, while merchandise import growth slowed down to
three percent in2004.


external debt, which has sharply
increased external vulnerability                      Box 1: Relatively SoundBankingSystem
o f   the     Croatian   economy.
Despite significant FDI inflows,       According to the joint Bank-Fund Financial Sector Assessment Program

external debt soared from 60           (FSAP) completed in October 2002, the Croatian banking system, despite
                                       its rapid expansion, i s relatively sound.      Since 1996, the system has
percent o f GDP and 128 percent        undergone major consolidation, and banking regulation and supervision
o f exports o f goods and services     have improved. The banking system today i s 91 percent foreign owned,
in 2000 to 89 percent and 173          and there i s increasing competition for products and services. By the end
percent, respectively, in 2004.        o f 2003, non-performing loans had declined to 5.1 percent o f total loans,
Also, since 2000 annual debt           banks' net open foreign exchange position had increased to 13 percent o f
service costs have increased by        capital, and profitability and capitalization remained strong. Nevertheless,
2.5 percentage points o f GDP.         since a major share o f deposits is held in foreign currency, the financial
Net international reserves have        sector remains vulnerable to exchange rate shifts and external shocks.

                                     I                                                                             I


                                                       6

remained at about 6.4 months o f imports of goods and non-factor services.

13.          Tightened monetary policy: The rapid deterioration of the current account deficit was largely
caused by an unsustainable credit growth in the banking system, which fueled domestic consumption and
investment. In response, the Croatian National Bank (CNB) tightened monetary policy in 2003:
administrative credit ceilings were introduced on bank lending in January 2003, and in September and
November 2003 CNB increased the local currency component o f reserve requirements on banks' foreign
currency liabilities. These measures have succeeded in curtailing credit growth (from 30 percent in 2002
to 14.6 percent in 2003 and further to 13.1 percent in 2004), but have also led to economic distortions.
Circumvention o f credit ceilings has resulted in rapid expansion o f unregulated leasing operations, and
corporate borrowing has switched from domestic to foreign banks. The higher foreign exchange liquidity
requirement has encouraged capital inflows, and CNB's reluctance to raise interest rates on its bills has
ledto an increase in the base money.

                           Figure 1: Evolution of Increased External Vulnerability

              Strong economic performance     ...                   Driven by domestic demand led to        ...

  Real GDP,
   %growth
     7"            ~____
          ~~~




                                                              -140
                                                                   894 895 896 897 898 899 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004




                 ...asurge of public debt...                                 ...andexternal debt.
        (as % of GDP)
   6oo1                                                           M)                                              35,000
                                                                  ..AS%of GDP                            Mill US$
                                                                                                                  30,000

                                                                                                                  25,000

                                                                                                                  20,000

                                                                                                                  15.000

                                                                                                                  x1.000

                                                                                                                  5.000

                                                                                                                  0
           1997  1998  1999   2000  2001  2002   2003 2w4              Q97 1998 2999 2000 20012002 2003 2004




14.          Disappointing fiscal performance:        Fiscal performance has been disappointing, and worked
against the tightened monetary policy. The Government gradually reduced the fiscal deficit (including
grants) from 8.1 percent o f GDP in 1999 to 4.4 percent o f GDP in 2002 (for general Government). These


                                                         7

gains were, however, partly reversed in 2003, as the Government significantly increased spending at the
time o f elections and the fiscal deficitjumped to 5.8 percent o f GDP.3 In 2004, the deficit declined to 4.9
percent o f GPD, owing to one-off expenditure measures o f the new G~vernment.~However, the deficit
target o f 4.5 percent of GDP was missed by 0.4 percent as dividend payments projected did not realize
and revenues underperformed. The high deficit has been largely financed through foreign borrowing:
total public and publicly guaranteed debt as a share o f GDP has risen from 50.7 percent in 2002 to 53.4
percent in 2004.5

15.       Needfor furtherfiscal adjustment: The recent increase in external vulnerability poses a risk to
macroeconomic stability and leaves the Government with little room to maneuver in the event o f shocks.
Given the high degree o f euroization o f the Croatian economy, external shocks could potentially cause
substantial damage.          Hence, arresting the growth o f external debt is critical to reducing Croatia's
macroeconomic vulnerability over the medium term.

16.       To arrest the growth o f debt, rapid fiscal consolidation to reduce the budget deficit is needed.6
Public expenditures still account for over 50 percent o f GDP, which is high compared to other EU
accession7 and even to other South Eastern European countries.                          For example, public investment,'
particularly on motorways, has averaged an extraordinary 6.5 percent o f GDP in recent years. Areas
where Croatia spends beyond EU and other candidate countries include public sector wage bill, highway
construction, railways, enterprise subsidies, pension and social welfare, and health care.

17.       Fiscal consolidation is also required since the scope for increasing tax revenues i s limited, and
relying on privatization receipts to finance deficits is not a viable medium-term strategy, since they are
expected to decline after 2005. Tax burden in Croatia i s high compared to EU accession countries and
most EU countries: Croatia taxes directly and indirectly more than 40 percent o f its gross value added,
thus significantly reducing its competitiveness.' However, without cuts in public spending, tax reduction
i s not feasible.                                                 Table 1: Publich'rivate Sector Comparators
           C.      InvestmentClimate
                                                                                      PrivateSector        Public Expenditure/
18.       Large state presence in the                                               Share of GDP (%)          GDP Ratio ("A)
economy: The presence o f the state is                     3roatia                          60                    50.0
still    significant      and     would       need
downsizing. The private sector accounts                    3 8 Average:                     76                    43.0

for about 60 percent o f the economy in                     Czech Republic                  80                    46.6
Croatia, which is below any EU8 country                     Estonia                         80                    38.4
(see Table 1). In Croatia, a large share o f                Hungary                         80                    53.5
public and state-owned enterprises still                    Latvia                          70                    38.8
remains to be privatized or liquidated,                     Lithuania                       75                    31.4
and direct state aid to the enterprise                      Poland                          75                    44.1
sector is high. Many o f the companies                      Slovak Republic                 80                    48.4
                                                            Slovenia                        65                    42.6
                                                           Source: Transition Report 2003, EBRD(2002 data)


  The IMF and World Bank fiscal data slightly differ, since IMF does not include all local government units and excludes all
capital revenues (in additionto privatization receipts) from revenues.
  Applying the World Bank approach (see footnote 3), the 2004 fiscal deficit is at 4.6 percent of GDP.
  Public sector arrears and contingent liabilities in the form of state guarantees have also contributed to the debt accumulation.
Direct debt (public debt excluding guarantees) grew from 42 to 47 percent of GDP.
'*The
  The primary fiscal deficit consistent with debt sustainability would be about 2.5 percent of GDP.
      average general government spending for EU accession and candidate countries was about 40 percent of GDP in 2002.
  The averagetax burden for the EUaccession and candidate countries was below 33 percent of GDP in 2002.


                                                                8

with majority state ownership are loss-making and indebted.

19.       Cost of doing business: The regulatory framework governing the private sector also remains
cumbersome. The 2004 Cost o f Doing Business in Croatia assessment indicates that the time and cost to
establish a business in Croatia are high compared to OECD countries, and inefficient judicial system i s
hindering exit o f unviable firms. Further, execution and enforcement o f contracts and property rights i s
weak compared to OECD countries, and usingmovable assets as collateral i s difficult, since procedures to
establish pledges on movable assets are formalistic and cumbersome. For these reasons among others,
Croatia fell in competitiveness ranking from 53'd in 2003 to 6lStplace in 2004 among the 101 countries
rated by the World Economic Forum. To facilitate further expansion o f the private sector, strengthening
o f the investment climate and reducing the barriers to entry and exit i s required.

20.      Relatively high unemployment: Croatia has one o f the lowest employment-to-population ratios:
only about 43 percent o f the working age population (age 15 or more) i s employed. This ratio i s a
reflection o f a relatively low labor force participation rate (50.2 percent), and relatively high
unemployment rate (about 14 percent, using the ILO definition o f unemployment). According to the
analysis conducted for the Croatia Country Economic Memorandum, the source o f employment problem
i s low job creation. The job creation rate' in Croatia i s only 3.5 percent, while it i s almost 10 percent in
Lithuania and 7 percent in Bulgaria. This further underscores the need to strengthen the enabling
environment for the private sector to facilitate its growth.

21.       Croatia had untilrecently one o f the strictest employment protection regulations inEurope, which
was highlighted as one the key obstacles to the private sector growth in various assessments. In 2001-
2003, the Government, however, carried out series o f reforms to increase labor market flexibility.
Specifically, dismissal costs were lowered, the scope o f flexible employment contracts was increased, and
some non-cash work related benefits were reduced. While the impact o f these reforms i s yet to be seen,
further reforms are needed, given the changing labor legslation framework under the EU's Lisbon
Agenda.

                                                       D.       Poverty

22.       The poverty analysis conducted in 20OO1Oindicates that poverty in Croatia i s relatively low and
shallow. At the end o f 1990s, only four percent o f the population lived on less than US$4.30 a day (at the
purchasing power parity), and about 10 percent lived on less than US$9 a day, which the study suggested
i s an appropriate poverty line for Croatia. The poverty gap was about 1.8 percent, and on average the
consumption o f a poor household was 20.7 percent below the poverty line. The report estimated that to
lift all poor out of poverty with perfect targeting would cost only about one percent of GDP. The results
also showed that there are no significant differences in the prevalence o f poverty by gender. Income
inequality measured by the Gini coefficient was 0.29 in2002, which i s slightly higher than the average in
advanced transition countries.

                                     E.       Statusof the IMF Program in Croatia

23.       On August 4, 2004, the IMF Board approved a new precautionary 20-month, SDR 97 million
SBA with the Croatian Government."                 The objective o f new SBA i s to reduce external vulnerability
through rapid fiscal consolidation. Owing to inherited spending obligations, the program in 2004 largely



  The job creationrate refers to the share of newjobs in total employment.
lo analysiswasbasedonthe
   The                            1998 household budget survey.
"The prior IMFsupportedSBA, which expired onApril 2, 2004, wentofftrack inlate2003. The last ofthethreereviewswas
not completed, as fiscal policy targets were missedby wide margins in the run-up to the November 2003 elections.


                                                               9

relied on one-off expenditure cutting measures, and the bulk o f fiscal adjustment through more systemic
measures was scheduled for 2005. The fiscal deficit target was missed in 2004, and completion o f a
number o f structural criteria delayed. The program is currently on track and the macroeconomic policy
framework i s adequate. The IMF Board i s scheduled to discuss the first review o f the SBA on September
14,2005.


                         111. GOVERNMENT'SDEVELOPMENT PRIORITIES

24.      The newly elected Government issued its program for 2003-2007 in December 2003. The main
goals o f the Government are to: (i)enhance economic growth, decrease unemployment, and increase
standard o f living o f the Croatian population; and (ii)    attain membership o f EU and NATO. To achieve
these goals, the Government has drafted a comprehensive development strategy to guide the way forward.
A number o f priorities and broad measures are laid out in the program, though.                           These include:
rationalization o f public administration; reduction o f external debt and public spending to ensure
macroeconomic        stability;  reduction o f taxes       to    stimulate      economic        activity;   strengthening
entrepreneurship and the role o f science and new technologies; strengthening o f the social security
system; and continuation o f the EU accession agenda in particular in education, health, judiciary, and
military.


                  IV. WORLD BANK GROUPSTRATEGY AND PROPOSEDPAL

                                                A.    Linkto CAS

25.      A new Bank Group's Croatia Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2004105-2007108 was
presented to the Board in December 2004 (Report No. 30717-HR). The goal o f the CAS i s to support
Croatia's efforts to: (i)    improve macroeconomic stability through greater efficiency1effectiveness o f
public expenditure; (ii)    promote private sector-led growth; (iii)       enhance broad participation in growth;
and (iv) promote sustainable natural resource management.

26.      The Bank i s proposing to make a series o f Programmatic Adjustment Loans (PAL) the
centerpiece o f CAS.12 Successful EUintegration calls for governments to launch intensive structural and
institutional reforms across sectors. The Bank has found that the most effective tool for supporting this
ambitious effort, especially in accession countries, i s with a comparable instrument, such as PAL, which
supports key structural and institutional reforms across a range o f sectors.                  Experience in other EU
candidate and current EU member countries has shown that PAL programs provide a vehicle for inter-
ministerial collaboration around a clear policy reform agenda with clear outcomes, performance
benchmarks, and monitorable indicators against which to assess progress during implementation, thus
sending clear and predictable signals to the international community.

27.      P A L i s a series o f linked annual loans that support an agreed medium-term policy and
institutionalreform program across sectors. A three-year framework for policy and institutional reforms,
together with identification o f triggers for moving from one annual PAL to the next, i s established in the
context o f the first PAL, but each P A L will require Bank Board approval in sequence. Each P A L will be
an annual single-tranche operation requiring completion o f the agreed activities prior to World Bank
Board approval and disbursement o f funds. Each year also the reform program will be adjusted and
further developed based on changes inthe environment and lessons learned from program implementation
duringthe previous year.


'* Theproposed series of PALS has been preparedunder OD 8.60 since its preparation started before OP 8.60 became effective


                                                       10

28.      To maximize the impact o f PAL, the Bank i s proposing to complement it by investment loans,
and analytical and advisory services in Croatia. These activities will focus on: health sector financing
reform; agriculture market development; education sector reform; social protection reform; and
revitalization o f war-affected areas.

                                         B.    Objectives of PAL

29.      The objective o f the proposed PAL would be to enhance economic growth in Croatia through (i)
improving the investment climate, and (ii)   reducing size and improving efficiency o f the public sector.
This will require fiscal adjustment, which is a theme running through the proposed operation, given the
Croatia's fiscal position. The proposed P A L would also support the Government in its EU accession and
integration efforts, and help ensure that key economic reforms under the acquis are effectively
implementedand enforced.

                                   C.    Analytic Underpinnings ofPAL

30.      The proposed P A L i s based on a series o f economic and sector work on Croatia. This includes
the following analysis:

31.      Country Economic Memorandum: The proposed PAL i s partly based on the results o f the
Croatia Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) completed in July 2003. C E M analyzed reforms and
economic policy options to promote sustainable growth, while ensuring that Croatia complies with the
requirements o f the Stabilization and Association Agreement for EU integration. The report has guided
the overall PAL reform framework and prioritization.           However, to avoid overload and ensure
effectiveness, the proposed P A L would support only a subset o f C E M recommendations.

32.      Public expenditure management: In addition to the C E M analysis, preparation o f the public
expenditure management component has been guided by the findings o f the Public Expenditure and
Institutional Review o f 2001, and an assessment o f Croatian Government's debt management practices in
the context o f the Joint Bank/Fund Program on Central Government Debt Management and Debt Market
Development. A new Public Finance Review i s scheduled for FY06.

33.      Financial management and public procurement:               A Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA) and Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) have recently been
completed. Key issues emerging from CFAA and CPAR have been reflectedinthe proposed program.

34.      Private sector development: The component focusing on investment climate has utilized the
results o f (i)the 2000 FIAS study on administrative barriers to foreign investment; (ii) Cost o f
                                                                                            2004
Doing Business in Croatia assessment; and (iii)  a real sector study on Croatia. The impact assessment o f
Government's export and SME promotion programs, and an update of the cost o f doing business survey
are under preparation. Further analysis will, however, be needed to understand the impacts o f reforms
already taken, and identify what has worked and what has not worked. Based on that information reform
priorities will be identified, and the medium-termreform agenda further refined.

35.      Health: The proposed component on health financing i s underpinned by analytic work on health
financing. The Croatia Health Financing Study, which was completed in June 2003, analyzed the current
financing o f the sector and made recommendations for reform.

36.      Pension: Informal analytic work on the pension sector, utilizing social insurance modeling tools,
i s ongoing and guiding the design o f the pensioncomponent.




                                                   11

37.     Poverty analysis: The first and latest poverty assessment was carried out in Croatia in 2000. A
new poverty analysis i s to be conducted inFY06.

38.     Poverty and social impact assessment: Some o f the reforms proposed to be supported are
expected to have distributional effects. Privatization o f some o f the remaining large public enterprises i s
an example. An economic and social impact assessment o f shipyard restructuring options i s planned to be
conducted inFY06.

39.     Railways: A framework paper for proposed railways reforms was prepared by the Bank in April
2004. The paper has guided the work on the railways component.

40.     Policy Notes: The Bank i s also preparing a series o f policy notes as the work on P A L moves
forward to guide the design o f reforms in select areas. For example, policy notes on local government
pay and employment, and fiscal decentralization have been prepared.

41.     Workshops: To share lessons learned from other countnes, in particular from EU, a series o f
workshops i s organized in Zagreb on topics o f interest to the Government. So far, workshops on public
administration, judicial reform, fiduciary systems, health financing, education, land registration, and
investment climate have been held.

                             D.    LessonsLearnedfromPrior Operations

42.     Country Assistance Evaluation: OED has recently conducted an evaluation o f Bank assistance
to Croatia in 1991-2003. The report rates the effectiveness o f Bank's assistance mixed, with overall
outcome o f the Bank assistance program having improved since FYOl.

43.     The report emphasizes that adjustment and assistance programs should not be pursued when the
Government i s unconvinced o f the need for reform. It points out that large infrastructure project are not
necessarily beneficial in the absence o f related policy reforms. The report also stresses the need to: (i)
closely supervise operations and (ii) ready to modify or cancel them if necessary, rather than allow
                                       be
faulty implementation to proceed. The following areas were highlighted as priorities for future Bank
assistance:

        0   rationalization and retargeting o f public expenditure in line with public revenues to contain
            debt;

        0   improving growth by ensuring that privatization o f state-owned enterprises, or re-
            privatization o f failed enterprises which are reverting to Government ownership, i s
            successful, and for example not favoring insider buy-outs; and

        0   improving core functions o f government, public administration, and the judicial sector.

44.     Implementation Completion Report of SAL: An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on
SAL was completed in the spring 2004. ICR provides an overall positive assessment o f the operation,
and commends its focus. SAL focused only on three major areas (fiscal consolidation, improving the
business climate, and improving labor market flexibility), instead o f attempting to cover all major sectors.
The report highlightedjudicial reform as the priority for Bank's future assistance.

                                 E.     Coordinationwith OtherDonors

45.     Coordination with I M F : IMF i s concentrating on macroeconomic issues in Croatia, focusing
specifically on short- and medium-termmacroeconomic stability, and measures to reduce external debt.
The Bank i s collaborating and coordinating activities with the IMF staff, and the contents o f the proposed


                                                   12

P A L and SBA are coordinated to ensure operations complement one another. In general, structural
benchmarks are covered by PAL, while the SBA structural component focuses on debt and public
expenditure management and on select issues where joint Bank-IMF effort i s desirable.

46.      Coordination with EC: The proposed PAL i s coordinated with EC that welcomes the P A L
support for EU accession related reforms.             The Bank i s also worlung closely with EC to identify
opportunities for accessing EU grant funds for technical assistance and other financing relevant to PAL-
supportedinstitutional capacity building.

47.      Partnership with Other Multilateral and Bilateral Donors: PAL i s also closely coordinated
with other donors to Croatia, inparticular DfID,USAID, UNDP, Netherlands, and SIDA. Ina number o f
areas, Bank and other donors are carefully dividing the work to ensure complementarity o f actions and to
reap synergies.


                            V.      THE PROPOSEDPALREFORM PROGRAM

                                         A.     Overview of Propo'sedPAL

48.      Proposed reform areas:             To achieve sustained private sector led growth, the Croatian
Government needs to create conditions that attract private investment and produce growth.                             While
authorities have made substantial progress in adopting market and EU compatible legislation and
regulations, reforming the banking sector, and liberalizing the trade, much remains to be done. Boosting
growth would require a series o f actions on several fronts, and P A L i s proposed to support a subset o f
them.

49.      First, to enhance growth, there is a need to reduce the size o f the state to provide space for the
private sector.    T h i s would involve re-launching and completing enterprise privatization, as state
ownership i s still sizeable.       Partly owing to incomplete privatization and inadequate incentives for
enterprise restructuring, the share o f the private sector has remained low compared to other transition and
EUcountries.

50.      Second, in parallel, there i s a need to refocus the role o f the Government in private sector
development: instead o f undertaking direct state interventions in the enterprise sector, the Government
would need to establish an environment that facilitates efficient entry and exit o f firms, and i s in general
conducive to private sector activity. The results o f C E M suggest that inadequately established property
and creditor rights, a poorly functioningjudiciary, and soft budget constraints on public enterprises have
led to limited enterprise restructuring and new business creation, and thereby constrained growth in
Croatia.I3 Addressing these constraints would be necessary, though not sufficient, to achieve sustainable
highgrowth.

5 1.     Third, reforms in the governance system, inparticular inpublic administration, would be needed
to increase the quality o f policies and legislation, and to ensure their effective implementation and
enforcement. A modern and efficient public administration would be critical for creation o f conditions
for private sector led growth. Among other things, this would involve rationalization o f administration,
since the public sector wage bill in Croatia i s highby intemational standards.




 13CEM also highlighted stringent employment legislation as a constraint to growth, but a series of labor market reforms were
 supported under SAL, and therefore not coveredby PAL.


                                                         13

52.      Fourth, the proposed refoms would need to be embedded in a stable macroeconomic framework.
InCroatia, this would imply addressing a number of fiscal issues aiming for further fiscal consolidation,
and strengthening public expenditure management, weaknesses o f which are a key contributor to the
current fiscal situation. The key areas for fiscal adjustment include: the public sector wage bill, social
benefit and health costs, pension, railways, and in general different forms o f state interventions (transfers,
subventions, and subsidies to local governments and public enterprises) with an impact on the budget.

53.      Beyond macroeconomic stability, fiscal consolidation would be recommended for three reasons.
First, as mentioned before, both the level o f public expenditures and revenues are high in Croatia by
international standards. To boost private sector growth, reducing the hightax burden would be advisable
inthe longer run. However, prior any measures are taken to that effect, the level of expenditures would
need to be reduced to make room for tax cuts. Second, there i s a need to make room for EU accession
related expenditures, which can be significant (about 3-5 percent o f GDP). Third, Croatia would need to
meet the Maastricht criteria (fiscal deficit at three percent o f GDP, public debt at 60 percent o f GDP)
prior tojoining the European Monetary Union.

54.      Finally, Croatia's education system needs modernization to ensure it equips students with skills
required in a competitive market economy. However, given the nature o f assistance required, the Bank i s
proceeding with a self-standing investment project inthis area, and hence it will not be covered by PAL.

55.      Bringing all the issues mentioned above together, the reformprogram to be supported by the PAL
series i s proposed to be built on three pillars: (i)     improving investment climate; (ii)strengthening
governance; and (iii)   enhancing fiscal sustainability o f sector programs. One o f main advantages o f the
PAL instrument is the flexibility to make annual adjustments in the reform program based on changing
circumstances. For example, power sector reforms need attention in Croatia, but the Government i s not
yet ready to include it in PAL. It might, however, be included into the third pillar o f the P A L agenda
underPAL3, ifnecessary.

56.      Proposed issues/actions to focus in each reform area: Table 1 summarizes the pillars, and
reform areas and actions proposed to be covered under each o f them. These areas and actions are
consistent with the areas highlighted in the EC recommendation needing further reform. The specific
reforms to be supported in each area are detailed in the Government's Letter of Development Policy (see
Schedule 1) and the PAL policy matrix (see Schedule 2), which focus on actions that are critical for the
reform process; and the Government would have difficulties moving forward without external support.
 Sections to follow will discuss each pillar and reform area in more detail, and are intended to be read
together with the policy matrix.

 57.     Expected overall PAL outcomes: Over the course o f the P A L program, the following overall
 outcomes are expected as a result of all actions:

         0       General government expenditure reduced from 50.5 percent o f GDP in 2003 to 46 percent
                 o f GDP in 2008, and the fiscal deficit from 6.3 percent o f GDP in 2003 to 3.0 percent o f
                 GDP in2008.

         0       Private sector share in GDP increased from 60 percent in 2003 to about 70 percent o f GDP
                 in2008.

         0       FIAS and Cost o f Doing Business assessments indicating improved investment climate in
                 2008;
 58.     It i s important to note that the above outcome targets are stretch goals. They should not be used
 rigidly and inisolation as guideposts to measure the results o f the proposed program, since factors beyond
 the control o f PAL will also affect their achievement. H o w each reform area i s projectedto contribute to


                                                    14

fiscal consolidation i s reflected in the expected results o f each program component in the next section.
While the projected fiscal impact o f some reforms can be quantified, for some reforms-such                    as judicial,
public expenditure management, and administrative and regulatory reforms-that                    i s not feasible. Also
reforms, such as privatization and railways restructuring, contribute to fiscal consolidation primarily
through reduced state aid levels.
                            Table 2: Summary of the ProposedReformProgram

  Pillar Objectives                    Reform Areas                                         Actions
 Improving Investment     Privatization and liquidation of state-      Sell or cancel state's minority shares in enterprises
       Climate            owned enterprises                          0 Sell or liquidate companies with majority state
                                                                       ownership
                                                                       Sell state shares in shipyards
                                                                     0 Sell or liquidate ago-kombinats
                          Improvingfinancial discipline of           0 Reduce state subsidies to the enterprise sector
                          enterprises                                  Contain enterprisearrears
                          Reducing cost of doing business            0 Reduce administrative and regulatorybarriers to
                                                                       business
                          Strengtheningthejudiciary                    Rationalize the court system
                                                                       Reduce case backlogs and accelerate court
                                                                       proceedings
                                                                     0 Strengthen enforcement ofjudgments, contracts,
                                                                       property rights, and bankruptcy procedures
    Strengthening         Rationalizingand improving efficiency        Reformemployment legislation and rationalize the
     Govemance            of public administration                     reward system
                                                                       Rationalize organizational structures
                                                                       Strengthen the policy process
                          Improvingpublic expenditure                0 Improve internal audit and financial control
                          management                                 0 Improvebudget execution
                                                                       Strengthen public procurement
   EnhancingFiscal        Health financing                             Improve efficiency and reduce drug and hospital
 Sustainability of Sector                                              expenditures
       Programs           Reformof social benefits                   0 Consolidate and improve targeting of cash social
                                                                       benefits
                          Improving fiscal and social sustainability   Adopt fiscally and socially sustainablepension
                          of the pension system                        indexation formula
                          Improving fiscal performance of railways     Reducethe railway fiscal deficit


                                 B.      Pillar I:ImprovingInvestmentClimate

59.      Croatia's performance in terms o f enterprise restructuring, privatization, new business
development, attraction o f foreign direct investment, and creation o f an enabling investment climate has
been mixed. The private sector share o f GDP i s relatively low at about 60 percent o f GDP compared to a
number o f other transition or EUcountries. Enterprise privatization is far from complete, and state aid to
the enterprise sector i s high. Also, the cost o f doing business remains high,which i s affecting the entry o f
new business.

                         PrivatizationandLiquidationof StateownedEnterprises

60.      The privatization process in Croatia has been long, disappointing in terms o f its impacts, and still
incomplete. The first phase of enterprise privatization, which was launched in 1991, was characterized by
sales to insiders (managers and employees) and distribution to political supporters. It did not provide the
hoped-for boost to investment and growth, largely owing to the method o f privatization used (companies
were not transferred to those who could operate them most efficiently), but also because o f Government's



                                                             15

unwillingness to impose financial discipline on privatized enterprises. Instead o f establishing hard budget
constraints and pushingthe chronic loss-makers into liquidation, the Government has kept bailing them
out. As a result, the list o f state-owned enterprises slated for privatization-or re-privatization-remains
long today.

61.      Issues: Despite prior privatization efforts, there were still more than 1,132 enterprises with some
form o f state ownership in 2004. These consisted o f (i)824 enterprises with state ownership o f 0-25
percent; (ii)146 enterprises with state ownership o f 25-50 percent; and (iii)   about 162 enterprises with
more than 50 percent state ownership. Enterprises with high state ownership are mainly in shipbuilding,
tourism, agriculture (agro-kombinats), and metal-processing sectors. Many o f them are loss-making,
heavily indebted, and cannot survive without direct subsidies (including for working capital). In 2004
alone, the Government was asked to provide over USD$5OO million in working capital infusions to the
eleven largest loss-makers in the portfolio o f the Croatia Privatization Fund (CPF) to ensure those
enterprises survived and not go bankrupt.

62.      Completion o f enterprise privatization or liquidation has become urgent to create space for the
private sector and to release the significant assets locked in these enterprises to more productive use.
Minority shares in 824 enterprises can be disposed through the stock exchange, or by writing off the value
o f shares. Privatization or liquidation o f enterprises with larger state shares will, however, be most
critical. The Government sold in 2004 a set o f larger companies and ago-kombinats, and plans to follow
this by privatization o f more complex enterprises in 2005 and 2006. It will be important to ensure that
this time the Government does not revert to sales to insiders, andbail-outs o fprivatized companies by the
Government are prevented.         To do that, repurchase clauses should be excluded from privatization
contracts, and other purchase conditions such as investment or employment conditions minimized. Also,
employee and management buy-outs need to be avoided.

63.      Reform Strategy: Under PAL, the proposed key areas to support privatization and liquidation o f
state-owned enterprises are the following:

            Sell or cancel government's minority shares in enterprises: PAL i s proposed to support
            disposal o f Government's minority shares in enterprises either through sales in the stock
            exchange or cancellation. Under PAL1, CPF has sold or cancelled state's minority shares in
            200 companies. Under PAL2, CPF intends to sell or cancel minority shares in further 300
            companies, and the remainder under PAL3.

        e   Sell or liquidate companies with majority state ownership: PAL i s proposed to support a
            rigorous disposal o f state assets in the largest loss-makers through accelerated privatization
            and liquidation. Under PAL1, CPF has sold through tender or auctions ten companies with
            majority state ownership. Under PAL2, CPF intends to sell another 45 companies, and the
            remaining companies with majority state ownership will be sold or liquidated under PAL3.

            Sell state shares in shipyards: Under PAL1, CPF has initiated preparationfor the sale o f state
            shares in one shipyard. Under PAL2 and PAL3, this sale will be completed along with a sale
            o f another shipyard.

         e  Sell or liquidate agro-kombinats:      Owing to concerns about the process o f agro-kombinat
            privatization (the state i s proposing to retain majority or minority shares in some agro-
            kombinats, and proceed with employee and management buy-outs in others), the Ministry o f
            Agriculture has prepared under PAL1 a strategy for enhancing competitiveness in the
            agricultural and food sectors, including the privatization o f agro-kombinats.           PAL2 i s
            proposed to support the implementation o f the strategy related to agro-kombinat privatization,


                                                     16

              provided the proposed manner o f privatization i s acceptable to the Bank. Otherwise, the
              component i s proposed to be dropped from the P A L support.

64.       Expected Results: Over the course o f the P A L program period, Croatia expects to reduce state
involvement inthe enterprise sector and achieve the following:

         0    At least 1,000 state-owed enterprises privatized or liquidatedby end 2007.

                                    ImprovingFinancialDiscipline of Enterprises

65.       For the new round o f privatization to be successful, it i s critical that the Government imposes on
privatized and other enterprises hard budget constraints. Many Croatian enterprises continue to operate
while generating losses, defaulting on debts to banks, and accumulating arrear~.'~The Government has
continued to support the loss-making public and state-owned enterprises through generous subsidies,
transfers, and guarantees, and bail out privatized enterprises. This has been costly to the economy, since
supporting losses o f non-viable enterprises i s ultimately financed by taxes on the rest o f the economy,
involving resource transfers from efficient to inefficient sectors, and constraining productive investments.
Hence, it i s important for the Government to create an environment which ensures that loss-making
enterprises undergo restructuring and exit the market when necessary.

66.       Issues:      In 2003, state aid to the enterprise ~ector'~,including direct budgetary transfers or
indirect financing through Croatian PrivatizationFund, other extra budgetary funds or the Croatian Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (HBOR), amounted to about 3.4 percent o f GDP, compared to the
EU15 average o f approximately 1.8percent of GDP? A large portion of this aidwent to shipyards, agro-
kombinats, railways, and the metal and machinery manufacturing sector to protect the jobs, irrespective o f
whether these enterprises addednet value. Subsidies and transfers together account for over 20 percent o f
GDP, which i s at least three percentage points above the EU15 and EU8 averages.

67.        The previous Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) supported an introduction o f a medium-term
 subsidy reduction plan. Indirect subsidies were eliminated, and the share o f subsidies in GDP was
reduced up to 2003. The Parliament also adopted the law on state aid based on EU requirements, and
established an independent agency to monitor state aid. However, because subsidies have crept back
 from 2003 onwards, it will be important to re-introduce the enterprise sector subsidy reductionplan.

 68.       Public enterprise arrears were reduced significantly (over 70 percent) under SAL, and stand
 currently at about 0.5 percent o f GDP.               The Government had a poor record o f paying its due to
 enterprises, which set a bad example for enterprises to follow. Arrears inturn pushed many enterprises to
 shift to barter payments in lieu of cash, with the resulting inefficiencies in the market. It would be
 important to further reduce the arrears o f public enterprises, and have enterprises make payments and
requiring sales incash. Furthermore, it would be important to make public enterprises collect their claims
 more forcefully since they currently stand above 1.2 percent o f GDP. The Government undertook a set o f
 reforms to enhance financial transparency o f key public sector enterprises and limit enterprise arrears.
 Those reforms would need to be continued and financial accounts o f public enterprises made publicly
 available.



   On average, both state-owned enterprises and privatized enterprises incurred net losses in every year between 1996 and 2000
 (except privatized firms in 2000).
 15Includes subsidies provided by central and local govemments to public enterprises, privatized enterprises, and state-owned
 enterprises).
    Large amounts (about HRKl.8 billion) of quasi-fiscal support were provided indirectly by CPF to non-manufacturing
 enterprises such as railways, the electric company, and Postal Bank.


                                                             17

69.       It is important to note that a number o fjudicial reforms proposedto be supported under PAL (see
below) are complementary to measures limiting state aid. In particular, the proposed further efforts to
strengthen the bankruptcy procedures are critical to ensure that exit o f unviable enterprises i s not
hindered.

70.       Reform Strategy: Under PAL, the proposed key areas to support financial discipline o f
enterprises are the following:

          0    Reduce state subsidies to the enterprise sector: Under PAL1, authorities have prepared an
               inventory o f direct and indirect subsidies, and aligned their methodology with EU state aid
               guidelines. The Government has also adopted a medium-term enterprise sector subsidy
               reduction plan that sets an overall annual ceiling to total subsidies, which will be tightened
               from one year to the next. Implementation o f the plan has begun in the 2005 budget, and i s
               part o f the medium-term fiscal framework from 2005 onwards. Under PAL2 and PAL3
               enterprise subsidies are expected to be reduced according to the plan.

          0    Contain the enterprise arrears: PAL i s proposed to support: (i)quarterly publication of
               public enterprises' balance sheets, including liabilities and receivables data; (ii)
                                                                                                  clearing the
               overdue liabilities to suppliers; and (iii)
                                                         clearing the overdue receivables from buyers and the
               Government by enforcing the cut o f supply to non-payers. Actions on these fronts have been
               taken under P A L l .

71.       Expected Results: Over the course o f the P A L program period, Croatia expects to impose
increasingly hard budget constraints on the enterprise sector and achieve the following:

          0    Subsidies to the enterprise sector reduced from 3.4 percent o f GDP in 2003 to 2.2 percent o f
               GDP in2007.

          0    Reduced arrears inthe corporate sector.

                                       ReducingCost of DoingBusiness

72.       In addition to completing the privatization process and ensuringthat enterprises are subjected to
the market discipline and exit mechanisms function, the Government would need to create an
environment that facilitates new business entry. The analysis indicates that new private firms are most
productive and generate most new employment in Croatia. For example, while employment o f state-
owned enterprises and privatized firms declinedby 27 percent and 14percent, respectively, in 1996-2000,
employment by private companies increased by 50 percent during the same period. Hence, further action
to eliminate the remaining entry barriers and reduce the cost of doing business would be needed.

73.       Issues: In 2000, the Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) camed out an assessment o f
procedures that must be followed to create a new business and acquire a business premise. A number o f
administrative barriers identified in the assessment were tackled in 2001-2002-such           as labor market
flexibility, company law, business registration-but        a recent administrative and regulatory cost survey
suggests that further reforms are needed.            Consequent amendments to the Physical Planning,
Construction, and Utility Services laws in 2004 have reduced time and streamlined the administrative
procedures to obtain construction related permits, but further streamlining would be warranted."




"Thesurveyalsoindicatesthatweaknessesinbankruptcyandcontractenforcementremain,buttheywillbeaddressedunderthe
judicial reformcomponent.


                                                      18

74.     It is critical to fix these fundamental elements o f the business environment before introducing
further Government-led private sector development programs. The Government has a plethora o f SME
development programs-managed           by the Ministry o f Economy, Labor, and Entrepreneurship, line
ministries, county centers for SME development, Agency for SME Development (HAMAG), and SME
development and financing initiatives through HBOR-but             the impact o f these efforts has been
questionable. There i s a need to conduct evaluation o f existing private sector development programs in
Croatia to understand what has worked and what has not worked, and based on the results o f the
evaluation start mapping the way forward.

75.     Reforms to be supported by P A L will be complemented by a set o f measures that the Bank
supported Science and Technology Project will cover in the area o f research and development (R&D).
This will include strengthening and restructuring              o f select   R&D institutions,      promoting
commercialization o f research outputs, and providing funding for programs aimed at upgrading
technological capabilities o f enterprises.

76.     Reform Strategy: Under PAL, the proposed key areas to reduce the cost o f doing business are the
following:

             Reduce administrative and regulatory barriers to business: P A L i s proposed to support
              reforms to reduce time to obtain construction related permits. Under PAL2, the Government
              i s expected to either amend or adopt new laws on Physical Planning, Construction, and
              UtilityServices that will aimto further streamline the processes byreplacingthe two current
              construction related permits with a single one.          PAL3 i s expected to support the
              implementation o f these laws.

77.     Expected Results: Over the course of the P A L program period, Croatia expects to have reduced
administrative and regulatory barriers to business and achieve the following:


        0     Private sector investment (including changes in stocks) increased to 25 percent o f GDP by
              2008.

                                        Strengtheningthe Judiciary

78.     Creation o f stable, clear, effective, and predictable laws and legal institutions i s one o f the main
challenges facing Croatia in its efforts to promote investment and growth.             For businesses to be
successful, contracts and property rightsneed to be observed and protected, and the court system needs to
provide impartial and efficient adjudication o f disputes. Strengthening the judiciary is also critical for the
EUaccession, and the Government considers it one ofthe priority areas for reform.

79.     Issues: Inefficiencies in the Croatian court system have resulted in a considerable backlog o f
court cases. Inearly 2004, there were over 1.2 million cases pending, and the European Court for Human
Rights found the country to be in violation o f the right to a trial within reasonable time. The backlog is
not caused by a shortage o fjudges: the number o fjudges in Croatia per 10,000 inhabitants i s among the
highest inEurope. The number o f court supporting personnel perjudge i s one o fthe lowest, though.

80.     The non-adjudicative agenda that judges are tasked with-such         as land registration and titling,
maintenance o f the company registry, execution o f judgments, supervision o f elections, and other
administrative tasks-is     one o f the key sources o f inefficiency and backlog both in commercial and




                                                    19

municipal c o ~ r t s . 'Land registration cases alone form about 50-60 percent o f the backlog. Also, lack o f
                         ~
an automated case management system in courts i s leading to inefficiency and backlogs.                               Further,
distribution o f work among the courts i s highly uneven.                      The delineation o f jurisdictions between
municipal, commercial courts, and the Administrative Court, which i s affected not only by the subject
matter but also by the nature o f parties to the disputes, also adds to inefficiency o f the overall system.
The number o f county courts (21), as courts o f the second instance, i s high for the size o f the population.

81.       In addition, enforcement o f creditor and property rights is time-consuming and uncertain.
Authorities have tried to remedy the situation through partial measures which temporarily improve the
situation, but are unlikely to achieve a lasting impact. Also, there i s currently no movable property
registry inCroatia, and various business groups, including banks and enterprises, have expressed the need
for it to enable movable goods, such as raw material inventories in warehouses, be used as a collateral by
banks. This i s especially critical for SMEs which are unlikely to have a significant amount o f fixed
assets.

82.       Finally, the bankruptcy procedures do not function properly. Trustees, who are key players in
insolvency procedures, are not well-trained and lack a clearly defined regulatory framework.

83.      Reform Strategy: Under PAL, the proposed key areas to support strengthening o f the judiciary
are the following:

              Rationalize the court system: To ensure a more even caseload distribution among courts and
              to address deficiencies, authorities have prepared a comprehensive judicial reform. Under
              PAL2, the Govemment i s expected to approve a plan to rationalize the court system, after
              which its implementationwill begin and be followed-up under PAL3.

              Reduce case backlogs and accelerate court proceedings: To reduce the case backlog and
               delays in court proceedings, P A L i s proposed to support transfer o f non-adjudicative
               functions from judges. Under PAL1, land registration has been transferred from judges to
               court clerks in municipal courts.''           Other non-adjudicative functions (such as commercial
              registries, enforcement o f court decision, participation in electoral commissions) are proposed
               to be transferred to other judicial personnel or outside o f courts under PAL2. PAL i s also
               proposed to support policy actions (such as modification o f the Court Rules o f Procedure, and
               adoption and implementation o f an IT strategy for courts) required for introduction and
               maintenance o f automated case management system in courts, which would provide
               transparency and increase accountability o f judges.20 So far, the Ministry of Justice has
               adopted an IT strategy.

              Strengthen enforcement of judgments, contracts, property rights, and bankruptcy
              procedures: To facilitate enforcement and execution o f contracts and property rights, PAL1
               has supported adjustments to the existing Law on Execution. Under PAL2, to reduce average
               duration o f a bankruptcy case, a regulatory framework for bankruptcy trustees i s proposed to
               be prepared and implemented thereafter. A movable property registry i s to be established
               under PAL3.



  Commercial courts maintainthe company registries, and take care of all tasks related to creation and dissolution of companies,
which are classified asjudicial functions and the ultimate responsibility o f ajudge.
l9 This required reclassification of land registration as an administrative function. Improvements in land registration and the
cadastral system are assisted by the Bank-financed investment project (Real PropertyRegistrationand Cadastre Project).
2o Development o f information technology and capacity for introduction of such case management system is supported by the
Bank-financed Court and Bankruptcy Administration Project. However, the project efforts need to be accompanied by policy
changes.


                                                             20

84.       Expected Results: Over the course o f the PAL program period, Croatia expects to have more
predictable and efficient enforcement o f contracts, property and creditor rights by courts and achieve the
following:

          0    50 percent reduction inthe court case backlogby 2008;

          0    EUassessment ofthejudicial sector showingprogress inadaptingto EUstandards.

                                     C.      Pillar 11: StrengtheningGovernance

85.       Weaknesses in public administration and public expenditure management are recognized as
significant impeding factors for development, implementation, and enforcement o f fiscally responsible
and private sector growth enabling policies in Croatia. Since shortcomings in these areas would also
hinder Croatia's EU membership ambitions, they are priority areas for reform. Emphasis in PAL is
proposed to be on measures that reduce the size and promote effectiveness o f public administration, and
enhance efficiency o f public expenditure management.

                                         StrengtheningPublicAdministration

86.       A prerequisite for effective policy implementation and public service delivery i s efficient, skilled,
and motivated public service. The public administration system in Croatia is, however, considered by
many to be inefficient and fragmented. The public sector wage bill i s high (10.9 percent o f GDP in
2003)21by international standards, and would need to be pruned in the quest to reduce the size o f the
state. Further, since adequate public administration capacity i s one o f the key requirements for EU
accession, reforming and modemizingpublic administrationwould be critical.

87.       Issues: To realignthe size and role o f the state as well as to strengthen the policy malung process
and service delivery, the size, structure, and remuneration o f the public service would need attention.
Several factors that have contributed to the sizeable wage bill would need to be addressed:

88.       First, while the size of the Croatiancivil service is comparable to EU8, there i s overstaffing inthe
non-civilian public sector (such as defense, police, and intelligence service). Staffing in these areas have
beenreduced inthe past few years, and further cuts inthe defense sector have been taken in2004-2005 as
one o f the means to reach the proposed deficit targets under the current IMF arrangement. At the same
time, it i s important to note that the EU accession process creates new challenges interms o f the quality
and size o f the Croatian public administration.

89.       Second, problems with the implementation o f the Civil Service L a w (2001) and disregard of
salary regulations, as well as inconsistent classificationo f similarjobs across ministries and agencies have
contributed to the high wage bill. The current legislative framework (laws on civil service and salaries)
has not been implemented in a consistent manner, and as a result the reward system i s fragmented, too
compressed to provide performance incentives to staff, poses issues on equity, and impedes the
development o f an integrated public administration system.22There i s a need to draft new laws on Civil
Service and Salaries, initially for the civil service and later linked legislation for public service and the
broader public sector, and have it implemented. Existinglegislation, even though in principle adequate,
has been distorted to such extent by specific rules and regulations applying to individual institutions, that




2' Based on consolidated general Govemment statistics. The percentage of unconsolidated general Govemment i s  11.3 percent
of GDP.
22 For example, different organizations within the civil service have widely varying pay levels for similar jobs, and local
authorities are seen as being paid excessive salaries compared to other public sector staff.


                                                             21

at this point it i s more expedient to draft a new law than try to revert the changes introduced to the
existing legislation.

90.     Third, the fragmented structure o f state administration-in     terms o f number o f ministries and
agencies, and relations between them-has       added to fiscal pressures. The Government has started the
reorganization o f administrative structures by reducing the number o f ministries, and rationalizing
administrative units placed directly under the Government. However, measures taken so far, though
necessary, have been mainly o f technical administrative nature, and have introduced mostly mechanical
changes to the system.      A second stage o f reform would need to include further rationalization o f
structures, in particular at the sector level. A legal and organizational framework would also need to be
created to effectively link ministries with the plethora o f executive and regulatory agencies, and build a
more transparent and effective organizational structure.

91.     Two aspects o f the policy process require attention. First, weaknesses in the policy formulation
process have led to adoption o f policies with adverse fiscal, social, or environmental impacts. The Rules
of Procedure of the Government up to recently did not require assessment o f fiscal impacts o f policy
proposals or addressing o f comments by the Office for Legislation on legal compatibility o f draft laws.
This needed to be addressed to ensure fiscally responsible policy design. Second, to ensure continuity in
policy and management, there i s a need to depoliticize and professionalize the top level o f state
administration and, specifically, reintegrate Assistant Ministers and Ministerial Secretaries into the civil
service system. Currently, in addition to Minister and Deputy Minister, Assistant Ministries, Secretaries,
Directors o f state administrative organizations, and Heads o f offices are appointed under the Law on
Government Officials instead o f the Civil Service Law, which i s leading to a high turnover in top
positions and discontinuity on the policy front.

92.     Reform Strategy:        Under PAL, proposed key areas for strengthening public administration
include the following:

             Reform employment legislation and rationalize the reward system:                  The EU and
             OECD/SIGMA program have supported the drafting o f a new Civil Service Law that
             provides incentives for efficient, client-oriented, and performance-based administration.
             Since the passage o f the law i s critical for moving forward public administration reforms,
             P A L l has supported its enactment. The new Civil Service L a w has also addressed the de-
             politicization o f public administration, which will be further reinforced under PAL2 in a set
             o f technical amendments to the laws on Government Officials, System o f State
             Administration, Transfer o f Power, and Conflict o f Interest. To unify and decompress salary
             structures, PAL2 and PAL3 are proposed to support the revision and implementation o f a
             Law on Salaries and introduction o f a newjob classification system--first for the civil service
             under PAL2, and then for the rest of public service under PAL3. A diagnostic study on the
             public sector pay and benefit system will precede the drafting o f the L a w on Salaries.

             Rationalize organizational structures: Under P A L1, the Government has developed and
             endorsed a functional review methodology to be used in assessing current structures, and
             pilots have been conducted in two central ministries and two county offices. Under PAL2
             and PAL3, rationalizationefforts are expected to be conducted in state administration.

             Strengthen thepolicy process: To increase quality and fiscal affordability o f proposed laws
             and policies, the Rules o f Procedure o f Government has been amended under PALl to make
             impact assessment (fiscal, socio-economic, and environmental) o f proposed policies and
             legislation mandatory.      A standard methodology for fiscal impact assessment has been
             adopted and its implementation has started. PAL2 i s expected to extend the methodological
             coverage to social, environmental, and state aid/competition impact assessments.


                                                    22

93.       Expected Results: Over the course o f the PAL program period, Croatia expects to have fiscally
more affordable public administration that meets EU standards related to merit, professionalism, and
political impartiality, and achieve the following:

          0     Reduction in the public sector wage bill from about 11 percent o f GDP in 2003 to about 10
                percent o f GDP in2008;

          0     EUassessment ofpublic administration showing progress inadapting to EUstandards;

          0     Public administration depoliticized.

                                   ImprovingPublicExpenditure Management

94.       Weaknesses in public expenditure management are a key contributor to the worrying fiscal
situation. There have been some improvements in this area, though. The new Budget Law o f July 2003
has established a sound, comprehensive, and modem legal framework for the budget process. Many o f
the provisions o f the new Budget Law were implemented in revised 2003 and 2004 budgets23, but a
number o f provisions still needs action. Also, debt management24as well as internal audit and financial
control functions in the Government are weak or non-existent.                   Budget formulation2' and execution
procedures also need further strengthening.

95.       Issues:The government has, with the help o f EU, taken steps to create internal audit and financial
control procedures in the Ministry o f Finance and other budget entities. Steps have also been taken
towards developing performance-oriented external audits. However, as CFAA highlights, internal audit
and control structures, systems, and policies are still weak or non-existent, and would need attention.

96.       The budget execution processes, including accounting and reporting structures, have been
recently strengthened. GFS 2001 standards have been formally adopted in accounting and reporting,
although adherence to these standards by many entities (particularly local governments) i s questionable.
The Government has also continued the implementation o f a single account Treasury System, based on
S A P . The Ministry o f Finance has used the S A P system for years, but effectiveness o f the system i s a
concern due to its limited use. The system has limited formal coverage and even more limited de facto
coverage. Further,it appears that some key modules (such as debt and budget preparation) are either not
implemented at all or in a limited fashion. There i s also limited control over commitments, and an
ineffective contract pre-approval process. While the Government appears to have made improvements in
controlling arrears in the last few years, they still exist (for example in the health sector) and, unless
processes are improved, they are likely to persist.

97.       Reform Strategy:            Under PAL, proposed key areas for improving public expenditure
management include the following:

          0     Improve internal audit andfinancial control: Under PAL1 the internal audit and control
                function has been strengthened through establishment o f internal audit units in over half o f
                lineministries and the city o fZagreb. Under PAL2 unitsare expected to be establishedinthe
                remaining line ministries and extra-budgetary funds, and under PAL3 in large cities and local



23 For example, the program budgeting approach was used; budgets were presented in five classifications using a broadened
definition of the consolidated central government (including previous off-budget agencies); statistics on guarantees and public
debt were improved; and implementation of any new law that was adopted during the budget year was shifted to the next fiscal
year, ifits fiscal impactswere significant.
24The current SBA focuses on strengtheningdebt management, and hence it i s not included in the proposed PAL program.
25 Since  IMF is supporting measures to strengthen budget formulation (forecasting function and a shift to a three-year budget
framework), the area is not incorporated into the PAL program.


                                                           23
                             I

              governments. Further, under PAL1, the Ministry o f Finance has developed, issued, and
              disseminated a rule book, standards, and manual for internal audit, including certification
              requirementsfor internal auditors. From PAL2 onwards internal audits are expected to be
              conducted in accordance with new rules. Also, under PAL2, a manual for internal control
              will be issuedand disseminated.

              Improve budget execution:                To improve budget execution, PAL i s proposed to support
              widening o f the Treasury Single Account from PAL2 onwards. Under PAL1, the Ministryo f
              Finance had carried out an assessment o f functionality and overlap o f financial systems
              (including SAP) currently operating in ministries and other budget entities. Under PAL2, a
              strategy to rationalize and integrate these systems will be prepared, and financial systems are
              expected to be rationalized and integrated, and debt management and commitment control
              software introduced across first level spendingunits.

              Strengthen public procurement: Under PAL3, a new Public Procurement Law, consistent
              with EUDirectives, is expectedto be enacted.
98.       Expected Results: Over the course o f the P A L program period, Croatia expects to have moved
towards more accountable, controlled, and strategic public expenditure management system, and achieve
the following:

              General Government spending consistent with the medium-term fiscal framework;

              Reduced deviations between budgeted and actual spending.

                    D.       Pillar 111: Enhancing FiscalSustainability of Sector Programs

99.       The level and efficiency o f social sector spending requires attention inthe quest for reduced size
o f the state, enhanced macroeconomic stability, and higher growth. Public spending on health and social
protection i s high by international standards, and policy reversals and new policies in the area o f social
benefits and pension raise concerns about fiscal sustainability o f spending plans. The Croatian Railways
i s one o f the worst performing railways companies in Europe, and the current level o f subsidies required
for its operation i s unsustainable.

                                                        HealthFinancing

100.      Croatia's health system has undergone a series o f reforms that have helped to transform it into a
system based on the principles o f universality and solidarity. The Health Care L a w o f 1993 consolidated
health financing under a single public entity, the Croatia Institute for Health Insurance (HZZO), which
accounts for about 94 percent of public spending on health. Citizens are expected to contribute to health
insurance according to their ability to pay, and receive basic health services according to need. From the
point o f view o f health outcomes, the system has fared relatively well: the workforce i s well-trained,
public health and health delivery programs are well-established, and health outcomes are better than in
most countries at similar income levels, though they are still substantially behind EU averages.26
However, these results have been achieved at a highcost, and the growing deficits o f HZZO are a serious
concern.

101.      Issues: In 2002, Croatia spent over nine percent o f GDP on health care. Of this, about 80
percent came from public sources, representing over 15 percent o f the total government budget. This i s



26 The infant mortality rate in Croatia i s 7.4 per 1,000 live births (EU average is 4.9), while the matemal mortality rate is 6.9 per
100,000 live births (EU average is 5.5). Standard death rates for ischemic heart disease are almost twice the EU average, and the
incidenceof TB is almost three times the EU average.


                                                                24

high in comparison to other countries at similar income levels.27 The ageing population, generous
exemptions, and rapidly increasing costs o f inputsdue to the demand for advanced technology threaten to
increase these levels even further. The current capitation payment system at the primary health care level
encourages referrals and overuse o f specialists, which also contributes to cost increase. Fiscal issues are
compounded by a wide range o f institutional weaknesses, including weak budget management (the
system relies on cash rather than accrual accounting), contracting problems, low capacity o f local
providers; fragmented infrastructure, technology, and staff deployment; and outdatedtreatment protocols.

102.     To control the overuse o f health services, the 2002 Health Insurance L a w introduced co-payments
for selected services in the basic health package, with higher rates for hospital and specialist services,
diagnostic service, and prescription drugs.             However, to increase HZZO revenues, a voluntary
supplemental health insurance program was introduced at the same time to cover these co-payments. This
move re-introduced the moral hazard problem that co-payments were meant to mitigate in the first place.
It also increased administrative costs and presented a problem inthe form o f potential adverse selection,
since the supplementary insurance i s likely to be purchased by beneficiaries with highest medical costs.

103.     Currently, HZZO i s capping the number o f prescriptions and referrals per beneficiary and
capitation payments, but this system offers few incentives to health care providers to manage care
efficiently.    In response, the Government has initiated a shift from a traditional fee-for-service
reimbursement system to a prospective payment system with explicit volume and quality performance
criteria incorporated in contracts with health care providers. Inthe hospital sector, a case-based payment
system has been introduced, and the capitation system for primary care i s being restructured.                  The
proposed payment system would encourage appropriate pharmaceutical prescribingpractices, and provide
incentives for better referrals to specialists, hospitals, and other level o f care in order to improve system
efficiency and reduce the cost o f care.

104.     Reform Strategy:         Under PAL, proposed key areas o f reform to make health financing
sustainable include:

          0  Improve efficiency and reduce drug and hospital expenditures: PAL will improve fiscal
             discipline in the health sector and health insurance through an inter-related set o f measures.
             Under PAL1, the Ministry o f Health and HZZO have prepared a policy proposal on the (i)
             revision of HZZO basic benefit package; (ii)          reduction o f co-payment exemptions; and (iii)
             restructuring o f the supplementary health insurance. As the next step, under PAL2, a new
             Health Insurance Act, that reflects the contents o f the policy proposal, i s expected to be
             enacted. To supplement these fundamental reforms, authorities are also reducing drug and
             hospital expenditures through a series o f other measures. Under PAL1, these measures
             included reducing time for drug registration, expanding the number o f generic drugs on the
             drug list, and implementing contracts with limits on prescriptions.
 105.    Expected Results: Over the course o f the P A L program period, Croatia expects to achieve
improved financial discipline in the health sector and health insurance, and specifically to achieve the
following:

          0  Reduced total public health spending from 7.2 percent o f GDP in 2003 to 6.0 percent o f GDP
             in2008.




*'The  average level of health spending in Albania, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Hungary, Macedonia FYR, Moldova, Poland,
Romania, Slovak Republic, and Sloveniawas 6.3 percent in 2002.


                                                         25

                                         Reformof Social Benefits

106.    Issues: Croatia i s spending an increasing amount on non-insurance social transfers, which
includes expenditures on social assistance, maternity, children, war veterans, and invalids. While social
spending i s quite high, the system still fails to protect the most vulnerable members o f the society owing
to poor targeting and administration o f benefits.

107.    The social welfare system i s centralized system o f cash social benefits, and social care services
are provided by the central Government through 80 Centers o f Social Work (CSW).              The system i s
inefficient, not well targeted (only half o f the spending reaches the bottom quintile o f population, half o f
social assistance beneficiaries are able bodied unemployed, and in some war-affected cities 30 percent o f
the population are social assistance beneficiaries), and poorly administered. Social assistance i s provided
through a range o f benefits defined under the Social Welfare Act. The Social Support Allowance i s the
key benefit and provides access to a range o f other benefits. It is income-tested and aims to fill the
poverty gap for an individual up to HRK 400, which represents about one third o f the absolute poverty
line. However, receipt o f the allowance gives access to a range o f other benefits which in total could
more than double the value o f the basic support allowance. This has resulted in inequitable allocation o f
benefits, with applicants with incomes below HRK 400 having their income raised to over HRK 800,
while those with slightly above HRK400 receiving nothing.

108.    To align spending levels with other comparable countries and cut the excess, many o f the social
benefits were reduced in 2001 with total savings o f about one percent o f GDP. In 2004, however, a
number o f enhanced categorical benefit packages were reintroduced, including child, maternity, and war
veteran benefits, and exemptions from taxes. As a result, total social benefit spending rose to over 4
percent o f GDP in 2004, which i s significantly higher than spending in most EU countries, and spending
on benefits that are less well targeted has increased.

109.    Reform Strategy: Under PAL, proposed key areas o f reform to rationalize and target social
assistance include:

         0   Consolidate and improve targeting of cash social benefits: P A L i s proposed to support
             efforts to contain social benefit spending by consolidation o f benefits, and focusing spending
             on means-tested allowances and work incentives. Under PALl, the Government has
             established an inter-ministerial working group to prepare a strategy for reform o f social
             benefit spending. Under PAL2, the Government i s expected to adopt the strategy and starts
             its implementation and reduce social benefit spending.

 110.   Expected Results: Over the course o f the P A L program period, Croatia expects to contain cash
social benefit spending, reducing the number o f benefits and focusing spending on best-targeted
programs, and achieve the following:

         0   Total spending on social benefits reduced from 4.1 percent o f GDP in 2004 to 3.5 percent o f
             GDP in 2008, while share o f the best-targeted and means-tested social support allowance
             increased.

                             ImprovingSustainability of the PensionSystem

 111.    Pension reform in Croatia was launched in 1998 with the aim to bring fiscal sustainability to the
Croatian pension system, reduce the pension expenditures below 14 percent o f GDP, and shift more
responsibility for retirement income to the worker. To achieve this, the retirement age was increased to




                                                     26

60165 for womedmen; instead o f wages, pensions were indexed according to the so called Swiss
formulai2* the calculation period was widened from ten best years to the full career; a new formula was
introduced for calculating benefits; and early retirement and disability eligibility was tightened.29 In
2002, after the PAYGO pillar was stabilized3', the mandatory fully-funded defined contribution pillar
(that is, the so called second pillar) was introduced, and reform o f the pension administration system
continued.

112.      Issues: In March 2004, the Parliament passed amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, which
provide for a pension supplement and re-introduce full wage-indexation. According to the amended law,
pensions are indexed to nominal wages, which has both fiscal and structural impacts on the pension
system: pension expenditures as a share o f GDP rise and remain close to 14 percent o f GDP instead o f
decline, transition costs increase rather than decrease, and the primary pension deficit gradually rises
owing to reduced share o f the labor force in total population. Also, the second pillar contribution rates
will not be raised to compensate for the reduction in the PAYGO pension.31 After March 2004 the
Government expressed that its intention was to index pensions to real rather than nominal wages, and
submitted a request for real wage indexation interpretationto Parliament. However, in August 2004 the
Parliamentary Committee for Social Policy postponed its discussion on nominal versus real indexation o f
pensions. A committee was set up to review the December 2003 pension agreement with the Government
and propose changes to it, but in the meantime it was agreed that pensions from July 1 to December 31,
2004 be raised by the nominal wage growth.

113.      Inaddition, the Government announcedthat itsother goals were to: (i)                  increase replacement rates
from 44 percent (with the supplement) to 50 percent in 2005, and further to 70 percent in later years via
additional annual indexation o f pensions to real GDP32;and (ii)             calculate the "pensioners' debt" inrelation
to Constitutional Court's ruling o f 199833,and set its repayment at a pace that could be sustained by the
national economy. Of these, the Government has moved forward with the proposal on pensioner's debt.
InJuly 2004, the LawonPensionRestitutionwas passed stipulatingthat the Government needs to repay
the debt by establishing a Pensioners' Restitution Fund (PRF) to be funded from existing Government-
owned stocks and real estate. The size o f the debt i s to be established by calculating the debt for each
individual. Details o f the PRF are to be regulated by a separate law that i s beingprepared, and a working
group preparingthe draft law i s examining the options.

114.      Reform Strategy: Under PAL, proposed key areas to enhance sustainability o f the pension system
include:




28The Swiss formula i s a mean average of the average nominal gross wage and inflation indexes. Prior to Swiss indexation
pensions were indexed to the average nominal gross wage.
29The 1998 reform package was expected to reduce yearly PAYGO pension expenditures from 14 percent of GDP to I O percent
by 2022, and further to eight percent of GDP by 2040, with an unchangedpension contribution rate.
30Reduced inflow of new old-age and disability pensioners, Swiss indexation, and the new formula stabilized the pensioniGDP
ratio below 14percent, despite 12percent average increase in pensions in 2001.
3'In addition to current pensioners, the new indexation pattem will primarily benefit those in the 40-50 cohort who did not opt
for the secondpillar. Those who opted for the second pillar in 2002 will be worse-off.
32Average replacement rates in EUcountries are about 42 percent.
33The post-election agreement did not mention that "pensioners' debt" referred to in the ConstitutionalCourt's ruling had already
once been repaid. The Law on Pension Increase to Eliminate Discrepancies in Pensions Acquired in Different Periods, which
was enacted in 2000, permanently raised the pension expenditures by over one percent of GDP, and consequently the
replacement rate, to repay the debt. According to the Article 1 of the law its execution satisfies the 1998 Constitutional Court
Ruling. Hence, the proposal containedin the post-election agreement essentially calls for the second repaymentof the debt.


                                                            27

      Strengthenfiscal and social sustainability of the pension system: The nomina1wage indexation
 of pensions was expected to be reversed and replaced with a fiscally and socially sustainable pension
 indexation formula under PAL2. However, action was takenon this front earlier than anticipated.
 Shortly before the distribution of these PAL1 documents to the Board, the Parliament reversed the
 pension indexation back to the so called Swiss formuIa, which is fiscally and socially sustainable. Also,
 the mode and pace of repayment of the debt to pensioners was satisfactorilydecided.
115.    Expected Results: Over the course of the PAL program period, Croatia expects to have fiscally
and socially sustainablepension indexation, and achieve the following:

     Pension spendingreduced from 12.3percent of GDP in 2004 to below 12percent of GDP in 2008.

                                   Improving Fiscal Sustainabilityof Railways

116.    Issues: The Croatian Railways (HZ) made some progress in terms of labor and organizational
restructuring in late 1990sand early 2000. About 8,100 staff (35percent of theworkforce) was laid off in
1998-2004. Also, HZ separated 16 non-core businesses, and established them as subsidiary companies
that are ready for privatization. Parliament approved the new Railway Law in 2003, which lays a solid
foundation for deepening the reform process.

117.    HZ'S finances, however, have not improved as expected, owing primarily to the hefty increase in
railways staff salaries to bringthem to the national average, and an increase in maintenance expenditures
to catch up with a backlog of deferred maintenance. Revenues of HZ do not even cover its labor costs,
and state aidto the railways was about HRK3.5 billion (1.7 percent of GDP) in 2004, which is three times
higher than the level of railways subsidies in EU and neighboring countries, and the Government also
took over HRK900 million short-termloan taken by HZ to fund maintenance.

118.    The current levelof subsidies to railways is unsustainable, and hence rapid action is needed to
reduce HZ'Soperating costs and increase its revenues. This would include continued reduction in labor
cost; reduction of services along or closure of uneconomic local passenger lines; cutting unnecessarynew
investments such as the tilting trains and high speed rail; and changing the business culture of the
railways. A framework for restructuring the railways would comprise of five components: (i) continued
reduction of labor costs through further staff layoff; (ii) reduction of services along, or discontinuation of
loss-making local passenger services; (iii) privatization of subsidiary companies; (iv) adoption of a cost-
benefit justified investment plan; and (v) increased revenues through private sector involvement in the
operation and management of railways, and exploitation of possible market niches.

119.    Reform Strategy: Under PAL, proposed key areas to improve fiscal sustainability of railways
include:

       Reduce the railwayfiscal deficit: The proposed PAL would support reforms that reduce the cost
 of operation and increase railways revenue. The progress of reform would be measured in terms of
 improvement in the working ratio34,and progress in privatization of subsidiary companies. Under
 PAL1, the Government has adopted a medium-term business plan, and taken actions to reducethe
 working ratio to 220 percent in 2005. These actions are as follows: (i) HZ has laid-off through voluntary
 and involuntary retrenchment 534staff from the mother company (staff has left the company,received a
 lay-off notice, or signed a termination contract requiring staff to leave the company by end 2005). Staff
 retrenched hasnot been rehired in the HZ mother company or subsidiaries, and HZhas closed all
 positions left vacant; (ii) staff toretire in the first six months of 2005 has left HZ as per the retirement



34The working ratio is calculated by dividing operating costs (excluding depreciation) by operating revenues (excluding revenue
from public service obligations and operating subsidy from the state budget).


                                                            28

             schedule; (iii) new hiring has been kept within the total 80 new staff limit for 2005; (iv)
                            HZ
             HZ has prepared a time-bound step-by-stepplan for privatization o f subsidiaries in 2005-09,
             and started its implementation; and (v) HZ has conducted further analysis to reduce services
             along or close uneconomic lines in 2006-09. HZ management and the Ministry o f Sea,
             Tourism, Transport, and Developmenthave also insisted that inthe next collective agreement
             HZ salaries are either frozen or linkedto the working ratio improvement (only ifthe working
             ratio has declined below the target level in the past year, salary increases limited to the above
             target savings would be accorded; if the working ratio has failed to improve or deteriorated,
             no salary increases would be granted). The Government has also issued a decision on the
             legal framework governing HZ subsidiary privatization. Under PAL2, HZ i s to ensure that
             the working ratio target o f 220 percent at end 2005 i s achieved, and credible actions are taken
             to reduce the working ratio to 190 percent at end 2006. In addition, HZ i s to enter into a
             contract with CPF and CPF will privatize three HZ subsidiaries. Finally, under PAL3, HZ i s
             expected to take the required actions to reach the working ratio target o f 150-170 percent at
             end 2007, and CPF will privatize at least seven further subsidiaries.
120.    Expected Results: Over the course o f the PAL program period, Croatia expects the financial
sustainability o f HZ to have improved, and to achieve specifically the following:

        0     The HZ working ratio reduced from 243 percent in2004 to 150-170 percent in2007


                                      VI.   THE PROPOSEDLOAN

                          A.     Actions TakenPrior to the BoardPresentation

121.    PALl Prior Actions: The Government has satisfactorily completed the following PALl prior
actions:

        0    CPF has sold (through tender or auctions) ten companies with majority state ownership in a
             manner acceptable to the Bank.

        0    Government has adopted a corporate sector subsidy reduction plan with annual targets,
             acceptable to the Bank, and began its implementation inthe 2005 budget.

        0    In municipal courts, land registration transferred from judges to court clerks through
             amendment o f the Law on LandRegistries.

        0    A new Civil Service Law, acceptable to the Bank and reflecting EUstandards, enacted.

        0    HZ has prepared a medium-term business plan satisfactory to the Bank, and taken actions to
             reduce the worlung ratio to 220 percent in2005. These are as follows:

                      J   HZ has laid-off through voluntary and involuntary retrenchment 530 staff from
                          the mother company (staff has left the company, received a lay-off notice, or
                          signed a termination contract requiringstaff to leave the company by end 2005).
                          Staff retrenched has not been rehired in the HZ mother company or subsidiaries,
                          and HZ has closed all positions left vacant.
                      J Staff to retire inthe first six months of 2005 has left HZ as per the retirement
                          schedule.

                      J   HZnew hiringis within the total 80 new staff hiringlimit for 2005




                                                   29

                     J HZ has prepared a time-bound step-by-step plan for privatization of subsidiaries
                          in2005-09, and started immediately its implementation.
                     J HZ has conducted further analysis to reduce services along or close uneconomic
                          lines in 2006-09.

            Government decision issued on the legal framework governing HZ subsidiary privatization.

122.    In addition, the Government has made satisfactory progress in completing the other PAL1
benchmarks.

123.    Anticipated PAL2 Prior Actions:          Anticipated PAL2 prior actions were agreed with the
Government during P A L1 negotiations.         In addition to satisfactory progress in completing PAL2
benchmarks, the Board presentation o f PAL2 i s proposed to be triggered, among others, by the following:

             Croatia Privatization Fund sells (through tender or actions) or liquidates 45 companies with
            majority state ownership ina manner acceptable to the Bank.

             MinistryofFinancereduces enterprise subsidies according to the plan.

             Commercial registries, enforcement o f court decisions, and participation in electoral
             commissions transferred from judges to other judicial personnel or outside courts, and the
             MinistryofJustice adopts new caseload andworkloadratesperjudge.

             Based on pilot results, Government adopts a new decree on staffing planning principles
             (systematization) in state administration, and a retrenchment plan for redundant civil servants
             and employees prepared.

             A new Health Insurance Act, acceptable to the Bank, enacted, defining a fiscally sustainable
             basic benefit package, reducing co-payment exemptions, and restructuring the supplementary
             health insurance.

             Government adopts a strategy for reform o f social benefit spending, and increases the share
             o f benefits going to the most disadvantaged.

             A fiscally and socially sustainable pension indexationformula implemented.

             HZ working ratio at 220 percent or less at end 2005, and.HZtakes actions required to reduce
             the working ratio to 190 percent in2006.
             HZ enters into a contract with CPF, and CPF privatizesthree subsidiaries.

                                        B.     LoanAdministration

124.    Borrower and Loan Amount: The Borrower i s the Republic o f Croatia. A single-tranche loan o f
EURl50 million (US$184.9 million equivalent) would be made available upon Loan effectiveness,
anticipated for September 2005. The closing date o f the loan would be June 30, 2006. It i s envisaged that
over the next two years, there will be two further annual single-tranche PALS(each in the amount o f
US$l50-200 million) to support reforms inCroatia.

125.    Disbursement:        The proposed loan will follow the Bank's disbursement procedures for
adjustment operations.      In other words, the loan will be disbursed in compliance with the stipulated
single-tranche release conditions.     Disbursement will not be tied to any specific purchases and no
procurement requirements will be needed. Once the loan i s approved by the Board, the Borrower will
open and maintain a dedicated deposit account in the Croatian National Bank. When the loan becomes
effective, its proceeds will be deposited by the Bank into the deposit account at the request o f the



                                                    30

Borrower. Prior to that, the Bank will withdraw from the Loan Account a front-end fee amounting to one
percent o f the principal amount, less any waivers. If,after depositing in this account, the proceeds o f the
loan are used for ineligible purposes as defined in the Loan Agreement, the Bank will require the
Borrower to either: (a) return the amount to the account for use o f eligible purposes, or (b) refund the
amount directly to the Bank.

126.    Accounting and Auditing Arrangements:             The administration o f the loan will be the
responsibility o f the Ministry o f Finance, which will maintain accounts and records, or ensure that such
items are maintained, showing that loan disbursement were in accordance with provisions o f the Loan
Agreement. Such accounts and records will be maintainedin a form acceptable to the Bank. The external
auditor o f the National Bank will conduct an annual review and render an opinion on the deposit account
opened by the Government in the National Bank to exclusively hold the Loan proceeds. The review will
examine and report on the disbursements fiom the Deposit Account until such time that all the Loan
proceeds have been fully utilized.      Such reviews will be submitted to the Bank as soon as they are
completed. Although an audit o f the Deposit Account will not be required, the Bank reserves the right to
require an audit at any time.

127.    CFAA on Croatia concluded that the central and local government financial management systems
represent significant fiduciary risk and, according to the CPAR, the level o f risk inpublic procurement i s
average. The key recommendations o f C F A A have been reflected in the reform program proposed to be
supported by PAL, and procurement reforms are included into the program under PAL3. The challenge
will be in securing effective implementationo fthose recommendations inpractice.

                                       C.    EnvironmentalAspects

128.    N o major environmental impacts are expected from the policies supported by the operation. The
Government will address any potential environmental liability issues related to the privatization process,
and the Bank will be ready to provide guidance on how this can be done in an effective manner.

                                  D.     ImplementationandMonitoring

129.     Coordination of Reform Program Implementation: Successful implementation o f the proposed
reform program will require effective coordination among various ministries and agencies, and between
the Government and Bank. The Government has assigned the State Secretary o f the Ministry o f Finance
to coordinate the P A L agenda within the Government. Further, State Secretaries o f ministries and heads
o f agencies involved in P A L will be responsible for coordinating reforms in each ministry, and are
members o f an inter-ministerial P A L Coordinating Body. Finally, the Government, led by the Prime
Minister, will oversee the whole reform effort and ensure prompt action on agreed reforms.

130.    Bank's Monitoring Arrangements:         The reform program sets out qualitative and quantitative
benchmarks and targets for three years. The Bank team will monitor and follow-up on progress, and meet
with the Coordinating Body periodically to discuss next steps.        The benchmarks for later years are
guideposts to signal when progress i s advancing or falling behind in any given area. If progress i s
considered adequate, implementation o f the reform program will be supported through subsequent PALS,
subject to the approval o f the Board o f Executive Directors. Annual adjustments will be made to the
reform program as it evolves, to take into account the latest country developments, other donor support,
and feasible options to realize the intendeddevelopment goals.




                                                   31

                                        E.      Benefits and Risks

131.    Benefits: The proposed P A L will help the Government to define and implement a medium-term
reform program to achieve its goals o f enhanced economic growth and progress towards EU accession.
The reforms supported will strengthen the institutional infrastructure needed to improve the public
sector's capacity to carry out its role more effectively, and provide an enabling environment for private
sector growth.

132.    Risks and Efforts to Mitigate Them: There are a number o f risks that attend the proposed
operation:


        0   Political risks remain high as the country has a coalition Government with a mere one seat
            majority in Parliament, and several proposed reforms are ambitious and politically
            challenging.   However, reforms to be supported under PAL are consistent with the EU
            accession agenda, which i s expected to mitigate the risk.

        0   Capacity weaknesses could impede implementation o f proposed reforms. Capacity i s uneven
            and limited in several ministries, which may hinder the reform effort. However, planned
            investment projects to complement P A L and technical assistance by other donors are
            designed to mitigate some o f the capacity constraints.

        0   External shocks that have adverse effect on regional stability could seriously harm the reform
            effort.   Given Croatia's heavy reliance on tourism revenues, it i s vulnerable to any
            deterioration in regional stability. P A L supported reforms to improve the investment climate
            are expectedto mitigate the riskthrough diversification o f economic activities, though.

        0   Given the high degree o f euroization o f the Croatian economy, the Croatian financial sector
            remains vulnerable to exchange rate risks. The IMF program i s expected to address the risk.

        0   Institutional reforms are complicated and take time. Progress in many areas will be gradual
            and measuring the impact o f reforms difficult. Lack o f immediate, tangible results may
            weaken the resolve to keep the momentum going and raise questions about the results o f the
            program.     However, the policy matrix will provide a roadmap for reforms to assess
            Government's commitment.




                                                   32

                                       Schedule 1




               CROATIA

PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN(PAL)

       Letter of Development Policy


                                                                                        Schedule 1




R E P U B L I C OF C R O A T I A
    MINISTRY OF FINANCE


 Class:441-01/05-01/38
 Reg.No: 513-14105-30

 Zagreb,4 August 2005


                                                                  Mr. Paul Wolfowitz, President
                                         InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
                                                   1818H Street, N.W.,Washington DC, 20433



 RE: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY



 Dear Mr. Wolfowitz:


  1.       I am writing to request, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the
 first ProgrammaticAdjustment Loan (PALI) of EURl50 million to support our economic reform
 program. This Letter of Development Policy sets out the key actions that the Government is
 committed to undertake over the medium-term to enhance economic growth in Croatia and
 make progresstowards EU accession.

 2.        The overarching objective of our reform program is to promote economic growth and
 development in the country through (i) improving the investment climate; (ii) strengthening
 governance; and (iii) enhancing fiscal sustainability of our sector programs. We aim to
 achieve the following overall outcomes as stretch goals: (i) general government expenditures
 reduced from 50.5 percent of GDP in 2003 to 46 percent of GDP or below in 2008, and the
 fiscal deficit from 6.3 percent of GDP in 2003 to 3.0 percent of GDP in 2008; (ii) private sector
 share in GDP increasedfrom 60 percent in 2003 to 70 percent or above in 2008; and (iii) FlAS
 and Cost of Doing Business assessments indicating improved investment climate in 2008.
 Our reform plans to reachthese outcomes are briefly as follows.

 ImprovingInvestment Climate:

 3.        Croatia's performance in terms of enterprise restructuring, privatization, and creation
 of an enabling investment climate has been mixed. Hence, we are keen to press ahead with
 reforms that will over time promote private sector growth. Our reform program will focus on
 four sets of reforms to improve investment climate: privatization of state-owned enterprises;
 establishment of financial discipline on enterprises; reducing cost of doing business; and
 strengtheningthe judiciary.

                                                   2



4.         Privatization and Liquidation of State-owned Enterprises: The Government
intends to complete privatization of state-owned enterprises by end 2008. This has become
urgent to create space for the private sector, and to release the public assets locked in these
enterprises into more productive use. At the beginning of 2004, there were still about 970
enterpriseswith minority state shares (0-50 percent). In 2004, we sold state's minority shares
in over 200 companies, intend to sell or cancel shares in further 300 companies by mid 2006,
and sale or cancel the remaining shares by mid 2007. We also plan to privatize or liquidate
close to 160 companies that have majority state ownership (over 50 percent state ownership)
by end 2008. These companies are mainly in tourism, agribusiness, shipbuilding, and metal-
processing, and many of them are loss-making, heavily indebted, and surviving only with
direct state subsidies. We have started the privatization process by selling through tender or
auctions ten companies with majority state ownership in 2004, and plan to sell or liquidate
another 45 companies by mid 2006, and the rest, except shipyards, by mid 2007. You will be
pleased to hear that, in addition, we have initiated the preparation of sale of state shares in
one shipyard, and expect to completethat sale in 2006 along with one further shipyard sale by
end 2007. We plan to prepare a social mitigation plan and introduce an environmental audit of
a shipyard to be privatized. Finally, the state had shares in ten agro-kombinats in early 2004,
and has since sold the majority of them. We have developed a strategy for enhancing
agribusiness performance and privatization of agro-kombinats, which we intend to implement
from mid-2005 onwards.

5 .        lmproving Financial Discipline of Enterprises:           To ensure this round of
privatizationis successful, we plan to avoid the mistake made in the prior round, and impose
on privatized enterprises-and      enterprises overall-hard    budget constraints.       We have
adopted a medium-term corporate sector subsidy reduction plan that sets an overall annual
ceiling to subsidies that will be tightened from one year to the next. We have started the
implementation of the plan in the 2005 budget, and expect to reduce enterprises subsidies
from 3.4 percent of GDP in 2003 to 2.2 percent of GDP in 2007.

6.         We are also taking measures to further reduce remaining enterprise arrears over the
next three years. This is done through: (i) quarterly monitoring and publication of public
enterprises' balance sheets, including liabilities and receivables data; (ii) clearing the overdue
liabilities to suppliers; and (iii) clearing the overdue receivables from buyers and the
Government by enforcing the cut of supply to non-payers.

7.         Reducing Cost of Doing Business: We are also committed to creating an
environment that facilitates new business entry and operation.              While a number of
administrative barriers have been dismantled in the past few years, significant work remains.
Therefore, we are undertaking reforms to address this issue. Amendments to the Physical
Planning and Construction laws in June 2004, as well as amendments to the Utility Services
Law in July 2004 have reduced time and streamlined the administrative procedures to obtain
construction-related permits. By mid 2007, through amendments of the current laws or
adoption of new ones, the Government plans to replace the two current construction-related
permitswith a single one. The laws will be enacted and enforced in 2007.

8.         Strengthening the Judiciary: In addition to facilitating new business entry, we
need to ensure that business entry is unhindered, contracts and property rights are observed
and protected, and the court system provides impartial and efficient adjudication of disputes.
This will require strengthening of our judicial system, in particular improving efficiency of our
courts. Inefficiencies in our court system have resulted in a considerable backlog of court
cases: in early 2004 there were over 1.2million cases pending.

                                                   3


9.        The Government has prepared a comprehensive judicial reform strategy to address
deficiencies in the court system and prepare it for the EU accession. To reduce the case
backlog by 50 percent by 2008 and to reduce delays in court proceedings, we are taking three
sets of measures. First, we are transferring non-adjudicative tasks from judges, starting by
shifting land registration from judges to court clerks in municipal courts. We have already
amended the Law on Land Registries and started its implementation. Other non-adjudicative
functions--commercial registries, enforcement of court decisions, participation in electoral
commissions--we have started transferring to other judicial personnel or outside courts in
2005-2006. Second, we are introducing an automated case management system to courts,
and have adopted an IT strategy to support that. We also intend to modify the Court Rules of
Procedure by early 2006 to make the system work. Third, our Government is also in the
process of preparinga plan to rationalizethe court system, with the objective to ensure a more
even caseload distribution among courts. We expect the Government to approve this plan by
mid 2006 and then implement it.

10.       Enforcement of contracts, creditor and property rights through our judiciary is
currently time-consuming and uncertain, and as the first step to remedy that we have
amended the Execution Law. We will prepare and the Government is expected to adopt in
early 2006 a regulatory framework for bankruptcy trustees to reduce the average duration of a
bankruptcy case. A movable property registry will be established by 2007.

Strengthening Governance:

1 1 . Good governance is one of pre-requisites for private sector growth. Weaknesses in
public administration are recognized as significant impeding factors for development,
implementation, and enforcement of fiscally responsible private sector promoting policies in
Croatia. Hence, our reform program focuses on these areas.

12.   Strengthening public administration:          An efficient, skilled, and motivated public
administration is a pre-requisite for effective implementation of regulations and policies.
Hence,we need to pay attention to the size, structure and remuneration of our public service.
We recognizethe size of our public sector wage bill as a share of GDP is high by international
standards, and hence plan to take the following steps to reduce it to 10 percent of GDP by
2008, and improve the efficiency of the public service and adapt it to the EU standards. At the
same time, it is important to note that the EU accession process puts in front of Croatia new
challenges in terms of the qualification and the size of the Croatian public administration.

 13.   First, we are committed to reforming our employment legislation and rationalizing the
reward system. Disregard of salary regulations, and inconsistent classification of similar jobs
across ministries and agencies have contributed to the high wage bill, while fragmented and
too compressed salary structure have made it difficult to attract and retain skilled staff. As the
first step to address these problems, we have enacted a new Civil Service Law that provides
incentives for efficient, client-oriented, and performance-based public administration. One of
our objectives is to de-politicize/professionalize the civil service: that is addressed by the new
Civil Service Law, but also by a set of technical amendments we plan to issue to the laws on
Government Officials, System of State Administration, Transfer of Power, and Conflict of
Interest. Next, to unify and decompress salary structures, we plan to amend the Law on
Salaries and introduce a new job classification system, first for the civil service in 2006 and
then rest of the public service in 2007.

 14.   Second, we are also going to rationalize our organizational structures. The number of
ministries and above all agencies has added to the fiscal pressures. We have already started
this process by reducing the number of ministries. However, we acknowledge that this is only
the first step in a wider rationalization process that should also include the review of internal

                                                   4


structures and organization of ministries, the review of functions and organization of de-
concentrated offices of states administration, and rationalization of the structure and
organization of agencies. A methodological framework to assess current structures has been
developed. In 2006,we expect to start rationalizationefforts in selected ministries.

15.   Third, strengthening the policy process is one of our priorities. To increase quality and
fiscal affordability of proposed policies, we have amended the Rules of Procedure of the
Government to make impact assessment (fiscal, social, environmental, state aidlcompetition)
of proposed new policies and laws mandatory.              We have also adopted a standard
methodology for fiscal impact assessment and have started its implementation in June 2005,
and planning to extend the coverage by early 2006 to social, environmental, and state
aidlcompetitionimpact assessments.

16.   lmproving public expenditure management:                 Measures to strengthen public
expenditure management are also needed. While we have reformed our budget process
through the new Budget Law of 2003, internal audit and financial control functions are still
weak. Hence,we have started the process of establishing internal audit units, starting with all
budgetentities. We expect to have also the extra-budgetaryfunds covered by early 2006, and
local governments by mid 2007. My ministry has also developed, issued, and disseminated a
rule book, standards, and a manual for internal audit, including certification requirements for
internal auditors. We are also developing a rulebook and manual for financial management
and financial control. From 2005 onwards, internal audits are expected to be conducted in
accordancewith new rules.

17.    The Ministry of Finance has also been steadily strengthening budget execution
processes, including accounting and reporting. Inthe next couple of years, we intend to widen
the coverage of the Treasury Single Account. Further,we have assessed the functionality and
overlap of existing financial systems in ministries and budget entities, and we plan to develop
a strategy to rationalize and integrate these systems, specifically focusing on implementation
of the commitment control module across first level spending units, and debt management
module in my ministry already during 2005.

Enhancing Fiscal Sustainability of Sector Programs:

 18.   We recognize that the level and efficiency of sectoral spending requires attention if we
are to reduce the size of the public sector, and improve our fiscal position. Our economic
reform program concentrates on improving health financing; rationalizing social benefits;
improving fiscal and social sustainability of the pension system; and reducing fiscal deficit of
railways.

 19.   lmproving health financing: Croatia is currently spending over nine percent of GDP on
health care, which is high in comparison to other countries at similar income levels. Our
ageing population, generous benefit packages and exemptions under the current health
 insurance, and rapidly increasing cost of medical technology are further increasing the fiscal
 pressure. We are concerned of these trends, and determined to reduce deficits and improve
sustainability of health financing. Our goal will be to reduce total public spending on health to
a sustainable level of six percent of GDP by 2008. To achieve this goal, we are taking two
sets of measures to health expenditures. First, to reduce drug expenditures, we have reduced
time for drug registration, expanded the number of generic drugs on the drug list, and
 implemented contracts with limits on prescriptions and referrals.           Second and most
 importantly,to improve fiscal sustainability of the health insurance system, we have decided to
 significantly reduce exemptions to co-payments, reform the benefit package under the basic
 insurance, and restructure the supplementary health insurance by eliminating co-payment
 coverage and transferring its management outside the public sector. We have prepared a

                                                   5


policy proposalfor the new Health InsuranceAct that reflects these changes. Restructuringof
the basic package and supplementary health insurance is planned to be carried out by end
2005.

20.   Reform of social benefits: There is also a need to consolidate and improve targeting
of cash social benefits. Currently, Croatia is spending on social benefits significantly more
than other countries at comparable level of income, but the system fails to protect the most
vulnerable members of society, as most benefits are not means tested. Poverty benefits
represent only a small percentage of our spending. Hence, we have established an inter-
ministerial working group to prepare and oversee implementation of a strategy for social
benefits reform. Our goal is that by 2008 total spending on social benefits has reducedto 3.5
percent of GDP, while the share of the best-targeted and means-tested social support
allowance has increased. The strategy is expected to be completed and implementation to
start by end 2005.

21,   lmproving fiscal and social sustainability of the pension system: In March 2004,
Parliament passed amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, which integrated a pension
supplement into the basic pension and re-introduced full nominal wage indexation. As a
result, pension expenditures as a share of GDP are projected to increase over the next ten
years, instead of declining. At 13.4 percent of GDP, Croatian pension expenditures are
already much higher than the EU average of 10.4 percent, and replacement rates are
comparable to other European countries at 42 percent. Given other fiscal pressures on the
budget, soon to be mounting EU accession related costs, and the impact of increased labor
costs on our competitiveness, this is a concern. We are committed to adopt a fiscally and
socially sustainable pension indexation formula in 2005 and are currently analyzing various
options that would allow us to contain and reduce pension spending below 12 percent of GDP
by 2008.

22.   lmproving fiscal sostainability of railways: The Croatian Railways (HZ) is in the need
of urgent restructuring. Currently, HZs operating costs are almost 2.5 times higher than its
revenues. Revenues of HZ do not even cover its labor costs, and annual state aid to the
railways is about 1.7percent of GDP (HRK 3.5 billion). The current level of subsidies, which is
three times the subsidy levels in EU countries, is unsustainable, and rapid action is neededto
reduce operating costs of HZ. We are committed to restructure HZ, and have prepared a
medium-term business plan, with the aim to reduce the HZ working ratio to 150-170 percent
by end 2007. The implementation of the plan has started, and HZ has taken actions needed
to reducethe HZ working ratio to 220 percent in 2005. This includes the following: (i) HZ has
 laid-off 534 staff either through voluntary or involuntary retrenchment (in which case lay-off
 notices have been issued and delivered) from the mother company by end June 2005, and
their positions have been eliminated; (ii) new hiring in 2005 has been limited to 80 new staff:
 and (iii) 150 staff are scheduled to retire from HZ in 2005. HZ will layoff additional staff in the
 second half of 2005 as one of the compensatory measures, if the quarterly monitoring reveals
that the working ratio target is unlikely to be achieved. The Government has also issued a
 decision determining the legal framework governing HZ subsidiary privatization. Our plan is to
 privatize HZ subsidiaries, starting with selling of three subsidiaries by mid 2006. HZ has
 prepared a time-bound, step-by-step plan for subsidiary privatization that details the schedule.
 Finally, HZ management and the Ministry of Sea, Transport, Tourism and Development have
 insisted that in the next collective agreement HZ salaries are either frozen or linked to the
working ratio improvement (only if the working ratio has declined below the target level in the
 past year, salary increases limited to the above target savings in operating costs would be
 accorded. If the working ratio has failed to improve or deteriorated, no salary increases will be
 granted.)

                                                   6


23.    To improve financial performance of HZ and reach the working ratio targets of 2006 and
2007, HZ has already conducted further analysis to reduce services along or close
uneconomic local lines in 2006-09. Based on this analysis, we will send a proposal for the
Government approval by end 2005, and start implementing it in 2006. In addition, HZ and the
Ministry of Sea, Transport,Tourism and Development are preparing by end 2005 plans for the
medium-term action: (i) a plan for HZ restructuring and implementation of the Railway Law in
2006-09; (ii) staff retrenchment strategy for 2006-09 reflecting planned HZ restructuring,
Railway Law implementation, investments, and subsidiary privatization; and (iii} cost-benefit
justified investment plan. We intend to implement alt these plans in 2006.

24.    In conclusion, I would like to reiterate the commitment of the Government to all these
reforms, and I trust that this request for World Bank support for their implementation will
receive your favorable consideration.


Yours sincerely,



                                                          MINISTER OF FINANCE

                                 Schedule 2




           CROATIA

PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN(PAL)

           Policy Matrix


                     2.-k
                     f
N                     V
                       3
                       m
                      s0      .-eim
                              I


     3
     z                 L
           r-:        P       3
                              .-
          . 3         -0
                       b
           0                   E
           N
                       4-
                       V
           -0
           C                  W
                       m      -1
                       m
           9
           zxm         0      2
                       0      V
           c           i?      m
                              N
           B
           -.-         C      a
            U          Lr,     2
                               L
                       u
                       n.
           Ti8                 P
                               .-
                               2
           .-                  Y
            I                  I
           .-> .-x
               I



                               I C




                               9 E

                                 C

     N
     d                          2o
     d                          5 C
                                 .-




                                   m
                                  .-C0
                                   i-
                                   3




                                   B
                                   9
                                   a

*
m
M

E
L


VI
.-8VI




         m

N -
  n
    Ym
     a
     a
   dY



   P 9
     P8
    Y
    Q1


     v)
     L
     c,
     0
     a
    3u

    YE     m

     v1
     v)
     a
     b
     e
     pc
     PE
      d
     nm
      E
     .I
      0
     Yt?
     Y




     .I
     d

     30

      m
      a              d
     .C1
      tf
     Y
     5iL
      d

      E
     (Ei
     -2
      v1
      3e
     Y




      aJ
     ufi
     :
     .I
      Y
      L




      0
      h
     .I
      I
      E
      c;l
      2         v
                m

      d
      .I
      c,
      d
      u
      e

m
0
0
N
.-C
;P
 n

 s
 s
 0
 I
 m
 0
 0
 N
 .-K




                1




                C



                I




                i




I     I    I


                                                                                                                                               Annex 1

                                          Croatia at a glance                                                                            9130104


                                                                     Europe &       Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                     Central      middle-
                                                             Croatia      Asia      income      Development
2003
Population.mid-year(millions)                                    4.4       473         335
GNI per capita (Atlasmethod, US$)                              5,500      2,570       5,340
GNI (Atlasmethod, US$ billions)                                 24.0      1,217       1,788

Average annual growth, 1997-03

Population(%)                                                   -0.8         0.0         1.2
Laborforce (%)                                                   0 3         0.2         1.8

Most recent estimate (latestyear available, 1997-03)
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelow nationalpovertyline)                 11
Urban population(% of total population)                          69           63         76
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                   75           69         73
Infant mortality(per 1,000live births)                             7          31         19
Child malnutrition(% of children under5)
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                95          91         89
Illiteracy(% ofpopulation age 15+)                                 2           3          9          -
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)             95        103         104                     Croatia
    Male                                                                    104         104                     Upper-middle-incomegroup
                                                                                                        ~

    Female                                                                  102         104

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                    1983        1993      2002         2003       Economic
GDP (US$ billions)                                              10.9       22.8        28.7
Grossdomestic investmenffGDP                                    15.5       26.7        27.8
Exportsof goods and services1GDP                                52.4       45.3        44.0
Gross domestic savings1GDP                                      14.3       17.9         18 4
Gross nationalsavings1GDP                                       16.2       20.5         18.9

Currentaccount balance1GDP                                       5.8        -8.4        -6.1
Interestpayments1GDP                                             0.9         2.2         2 0
Total debffGDP                                                  22.8       67.7        75.3
Total debt serviceiexports                                       4.9       24.3         17.7
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                   65.9
Presentvalue of debffexports                                              122.9

                                        1983-93   1993-03       2002      2003      2003-07
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                                    4.0       5.2          4.7        4.2             -Croatia
GDP per capita                                         4.7       5.1          6.5        4.5
                                                                                                            ~~-Upper-middle-incomegroup
Exportsof goods and services                           6.3        1.a       10.9         4.8


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                     1983       1993       2002        2003
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                               ..     13.8         9.0        0.7      40                                            II
Industry                                                         35 8       29 3        29 1      20
    Manufacturing                                                30 6       20 1        20 0
Services                                                         50 3       61 8        622        0

                                                                                                                                                I
Privateconsumption                                               62 2       60 7        61 2      20-
General government consumption                                   23 5       21 4        20 4
Importsof goods and services                                     53 6       54 0        53 4                       -GDI         *GDP


                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                  ~  ~        ~         ~       _     _
                                                  1983-93     1993-03      2002        2003
(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                                      -0 3         0 5        2 7     30
Industry                                                          3 4         8 7        5 3     20
    Manufacturing                                                 3 1         6 7        5 0
Services                                                          4 8         3 3        5 7     ' O

Privateconsumption                                                3 3         7 8        2 1
General government consumption                                   -0 1         0 6        0 9                                                    I
                                                                                                 10
Gross domestic investment                                         6.5        17 3        4.5                    -Exports        +Imports
Importsof goods and services                                      5.1         8.4        5.4


Note: 2003 data are preliminaryestimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicatorsin the country (in bold)comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing,the diamondwili
     be incomolete.

                                                                                                                            Annex 1


                                                                                                                   Croatia

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                          1983   1993    2002    2003                                                        I
Domestic prices                                                          Inflation

(% change)                                                               10 -
Consumer prices                                1,516.6     2.2     1.5    8                                                  I
Implicit GDP deflator                          1.466.8     2.7     2.4    6
                                                                          4
Government finance                                                        2
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                       0                 ~~~    ~

Current revenue                                  36 9    45.0    44.6             98    99          00     01     02
Current budget balance                            -0.1     1.6     1.8
Overall surplusideficit                           -2.0    -3.2    -3.5            -GDP          deflator  +CPI


TRADE
                                          1983   1993    2002    2003
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             3,910   4,995   6,007    15,000
 Raw materials, excluding fuels                   237     274     329
 Mineral fuels and lubricants                     377     458     560
 Manufactures                                   1,762   2,456   2,953
Total imports (ciq                              4,620   10,635 13,469
 Food                                             266     794     930
 Fuel and energy                                  447    1,310   1,500
 Capital goods                                    749   3,682   4,500
Export price index (1995=100)                              141     120           97   98       99       00  01   02       03

Import price index (1995=100)                              140     119                        Exports         Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                  101     101

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                          1983   1993    2002    2003
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                   6,196   10,562 14,324
Imports of goods and services                   5,767   13,047 16,212
Resource balance                                  429   -2,485  -1.880
Net income                                       -120    -499   -1,096
Net current transfers                             328    1,076   1,235
Current account balance                           637   -1,908  -1,749
Financing items (net)                            -171    2,605   4,055
Changes in net reserves                          -467    -697   -2,306   -15 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            616    5,886   8,192
Conversion rate (DEC, loca//US$)                   3.6     7.9     6.7

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1983   1993    2002    2003
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            2,486   15,413 21,573
  IBRD                                             89      611     762
  IDA                                                0       0       0                   772        762   777

Total debt service                                325    2,967   2,864
  IBRD                                             43      52       86
  IDA                                                0       0       0
Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                                    0      60
  Official creditors                               -52     165     196
  Private creditors                                 12   2,352   3,922
  Foreign direct investment                       102      591   1,685
  Portfolio equity                                   0    -260     a37                 17825
World Bank program
  Commitments                                        0     202       0    A . IBRD                            E. Bilateral
  Disbursements                                      1     126     155    B IDA
                                                                            -       D Other multilateral
                                                                                      -                       F Private
  Principal repayments                              33      30      58    C-IMF                               G Short-term
                                                                                                               --
  Net flows                                        -33      95      97
  Interest payments                                  9      22      2a
  Net transfers                                    -42      73      69


Development Economics                                                                                                 9130/04

                                               Annex 2 Croatia Social Indicators
                                                          -
                                                                   Latestsinale vear                     Same regionlincomegroup

                                                                                                               Europe 8         Upper-
                                                                                                                 Central        middle-
                                                            1975-80        1985-90       1997-2003                 Asia         income
 POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)                           4.6              4.8             4.4               472.2          333.1
     Growth rate (% annual average for period)                  0.3              0.3             -0.5                -0.1           1.2
  Urban population (Yoof population)                           50.1            54.0              59.0               63.8           75.4
 Total fertility rate (births per woman)                                         1.6              1.4                 1.6           2.3

  POVERTY
  (% of population)
  National headcount index
     Urban headcount index
     Rural headcount index

  INCOME
  GNI per capita (US$)                                                                         5,370               2,580          5,440
 Consumer price index (1995=100)                                                   0             134
  Food price index (1995=100)                                      0               0             120

  INCOMElCONSUMPTlONDISTRIBUTION
  Gini index                                                                                     29.0
  Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)                                                    8.3
  Highest quintile (YOof income or consumption)                                                  39.6
  SOCIAL INDICATORS
  Public expenditure
     Health (Yoof GDP)                                                                            5.9                 4.2           3.4
     Education (% of GDP)                                                                         4.5                 3.8           4.5
  Net primary school enrollment rate
  (% of age group)
     Total                                                                        74              89                                 91
        Male                                                                      74              90                                 92
        Female                                                                    74              89                                 92
  Access to an improved water source
   (% of population)
     Total                                                                                                            91
        Urban                                                                                                         98             96
        Rural                                                                                                         80
   Immunization rate
   ("A of children ages 12-23months)
     Measles                                                                                       95                 92             94
     DPT                                                                                           94                 90             91
   Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)
   Life expectancy at birth
   (Years)
     Total                                                        70              72               74                 68             74
        Male                                                      66              69               70                 64             71
        Female                                                    74              76               78                  73            77
   Mortality
     Infant (per 1,000 live births)                               20              12                6                  29            18
     Under 5 (per 1,000 live births)                              23              13                7                  36            22
     Adult (15-59)
        Male (per 1,000 population)                             233              207              150                 317           196
        Female (per 1,000 population)                           106               96              110                 136           103
     Maternal (modeled, per 100,000 live births)                                                    8                  58            67
   Births attended by skilled health staff (YO)                                                   100

~~~           ~    ~~~                                                                                         ~~            ~


   Note: 0 or 0.0 means zero or less than half the unit shown. Net enrollment rate: break in series between 1997 and 1998 due to
   change from ISCED76 to ISCED97. Immunization: refers to children ages 12-23 months who received vaccinations before one
   year of age.

   2005 World Development Indicators CD-ROM, World Bank

                                                    Annex 3 Croatia
                                                               -
                                               Key Economic Inidicators




 Gross domestic product"'                           100     100        100       100     100     100     100     100
    Agriculture                                        9       9          9        8       8       8       8       8
    Industry                                         30      30         30        30      30      28      28      28
    Services                                         61      60         61        62      62      64      64      65
 Total Consumption                                   85      82         81        79      78      78      77      76
 Gross domestic investment                           20      24         28        30      30      28      29      28
  Government investment                                3       3          4         6       6      4       3       3
  Private investment (incl. increase in stocks:      17      21         24        22      21      23      25      25
Exports GNFSD'                                       47      48         45        47      47      53      57      58
Imports GNFP                                         52      54         55        57      56      57      61      61
 Gross domestic savings                              15      18         19        21      22      22      23      24
 Gross national savings"                             18      20         22        21      24      24      25      25
Memorandum items
 Gross domestic product (US$ mill at current    18,427 19,863      22,812     28,810  34,311  35,071  33,466  34,416
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)               4,500    4,400     4,620      5,380   6,820   #NIA    #NiA    #NIA
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from previous years prices)
  Gross domestic product at market prices            2.9     4.4        5.2      4.3      3.8    4.0     4.5     4.5
  Gross domestic investment                      -10.3     23.6       22.5      12.0     3.3     3.6     9.4     6.9
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from previous years prices)
  Gross domestic product at market prices            6.9     3.1        5.1       4.3     3.9    4.0     4.5     4.5
  Total consumption                                  6.4    -0.1        4.8       3.0     2.9     2.1     1.5    2.5
  Private consumption                                8.3     3.1        7.4       4.2     3.9     3.2     1.5    3.6
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports GNFSD'                                   8,638    9,643    10,586     14,943  17,828  18,479  19,156  19,861
  Merchandise FOB                                4,567    4,759     5,004      6,308   8,208   8,619   9,050   9,502
Imports GNFS~'                                   9,592   10,809    13,067     17,198  20,180  20,098  20,474  20,887
  Merchandise FOB                                7,770    8,860    10,652     14,216  16,555  16,808  17,051  17,295
Resource balance                                   -954  -1,166    -2,480     -2,255  -2,353  -1,619  -1,318  -1,026
Net current transfers                               881     983      1,090     1,407   1,483   1,220   1,166   1,035
Current account balance                           -470     -727    -1,917     -2,072  -1,641  -1,136   -933    -737
Net private foreign direct investment            1,083    1,183        674     2,025     898   1,195   1,018   1165
Netportfolio investments                            708     601      -439        964     261     280     200     200
Long-term loans (net)                               455     269        660     2,593   2,305     531     436   -135
Other capital (net, incl. errors & ommissions)  -1,135        3      1,280    -2,194  -1,760   -624    -458    -376
Change inreserves"                                -582   -1,369      -686     -1,401     -68   -323    -340    -193
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% o f GDP)                       -5.1    -5.9      -10.9      -7.9    -6.8    -4.6    -3.9    -3.0
Current account balance (% o f GDP)                -2.5    -3.7       -8.4      -7.3    -4.9    -3.2    -2.8    -2.1
Annual value growth rates (%)
 Merchandise exports (FOB)                          3.9     4.2        5.1      25.6    30.1     5.0     5.0     5.0
 Merchandise imports (FOB)                           1.0   14.0       20.2      33.4    16.4      1.5     1.4    1.4
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)"
Overall surplus (+)i (-) (without privat
                     deficit                        -5.9    -6.4       -4.6      -5.8    -4.4    -4.2    -3.8   -2.9

Current revenues                                   46.7      45.1      44.9    46.2      46.5    43.8  41.1   39.7
Current expenditures                               47.4      46.3      43.3    43.8      42.6    42.6  41.1   39.0
Current surplus (+) /deficit (-)                    -0.7     -1.2        1.6     2.4      3.9     1.2   0.0    0.7
Capital expenditure                                  5.7       5.8      6.6     8.7       8.9    5.5   3.8    3.7
Foreign financing                                    4.6       1.9      2.8     3.1       2.0    2.2    1.8    1.6

Monetary indicators
M4IGDP                                             47.6      63.8      64.6    66.8      67.0    66.9  67.8   68.3
Growth o f M4(%)                                   29.1      45.7       9.6    11.2       7.7     6.0   8.0    7.7
Private sector credit growth (%)                     8.9     22.9      29.3    14.7      13.9     7.8   9.0    8.5
Domestic credit / GDP (%)                          47.2      52.9      62.7    65.5      68.2    70.0  70.4   70.8

Price developments
Real exchange rate (1995=100)'                    106.6     102.9      101.2   98.6      95.3    95.3  95.3   95.3
Exchange rate at end year (LCUiUS$)'                 8.2       8.4      7.1     6.1       5.6     6.9   7.1    7.5
Real interest rates                                  2.8       6.7      8.7     9.8       9.4     7.0   7.0    7.0
 Consumer price index (% change?                     6.2       4.9      2.2      1.8      2.1     2.8   2.4    2.2
GDP deflator (% change)                              4.7       4.0      2.7     2.3       3.3     2.1   2.0I   2.4


a) GDP at factor cost
b) 'GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services"
c) Includes net unrequired transfers excluding official capital grants.
d) Includes use of IMFresources.
e) Consolidated general government.
f ) "LCU" denotes "local currency units".An increase inreal exchange rate denotes depreciation.
g) Retailprice index by 2002; since 2003 CPI

                                                   Annex 4 Croatia
                                                             -
                                              Key ExposureIndicators




Total debt outstanding and                    10143 11282 11870 15680 24759             30859 31245       29206 28711
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a


Net disbursements (US$m)a                      515    1240     580      3890   8567       6129     581    -1954  -387


Total debt service (TDS)                       1946 2339      2814      2967   3314       3762    3465     3843  3486
(US$m)a


Debt and debt service indicators
(%I
  TDO~XGS                                     124.9 130.6     123.1    148.1   165.7     173.1   169.1    152.5 144.6
  TDOiGDP                                      51.0   61.2    59.8      68.7   85.9       89.9     89.1    87.3  83.4
  TDSiXGS                                      24.0   27.1    29.2      28.0   22.2       21.1     18.8    20.1  17.6
  ConcessionaVTDO                               2.9     2.9     2.7
  Interest paymentsiGDP                         2.3     2.6     2.8      2.2     2.4        2.4     2.1     2.3   2.5


IBRDexposure indicators (%)
  IBRDDSipublic DS                              8.3     6.0     4.6      3.9     5.5        5.2     5.9     4.1   4.6
  Preferred creditor DSipublic D S (%)'        24.9    18.5    14.8     18.3     8.1        7.8     8.1     6.3   7.2


  IBRDDSiXGS                                    0.5     0.5     0.4      0.5     0.6        0.6     0.6     0.5   0.5
  IBRD TDO (US$m)d                             396    418     469       611    762        812    1040     1294  1501



a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use o f IMF credits and net short-
    term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports o fgoods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD,IDA, the regional multilateraldevelopment banks, the IMF, and the
   Bank for Intemational Settlements.
d. Includes present value o f guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types o f both loan and equity instruments.

n




 """.-"""-
   ~ - ~ t o ~ m m m ~ w v ) v ) m
   o o o o o o m o o o o o o m
   o o o o o o m o o o o o o m




   w w m - m ~ ~ w m o m o r c r c
   -whwIc-**~-rv)mmwl
   *m *ommz c o * o
   w w h t - v ) t * w w t m r c w o
                ~ m m r - m~oracmmr cc
   a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
   0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

                                       Annex 6 Croatia
                                               -
                                      STATEMENT OF IFC'S
                                    HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                        As ofJuly 2005



IFCMIS                                                                 (Amounts in US Dollar Millions




1973/ 1981/ 1998/ 2002 Belisce           17.64 6.01    0    14.05 17.64   6.01        0         14.05

2002                   Croatia Banka      1.82    0    0       0   182      0         0             0
1999                   Croatia Capital       0 4.21    0       0      0   3.83        0             0
1999/ 2002             E&S Bank          27.89    0    0       0  27.89      0        0             0
2005                   PBZ               90.81    0    0       0  90.81      0        0             0
2001                   Pliva                 0    0   10        0     0      0        10            0
2004                   Schwarz Group     48.43    0     0       0 36.33      0        0             0
2000                   Viktor Lenac          6    0   0.5    8.18     6      0         0          8.18
       ortfolio:                                     10.5

                                           Annex 7 Croatia
                                                        -
        Selected Indicators* of Bank Portfolio Performance and Management
                                                As Of Date 07/18/2005



indicator                                                     2003            2004        2005        2006
Portfolio Assessment
Number of Projects Under Implementation a                         11             13          13         14
Average Implementation Period (years) b                          2.9            3.3         3.0        2.8
Percent of Problem Projects by Number a, c                       0.0          38.5          0.0        0.0
Percent of Problem Projects by Amount a, c                       0.0          37.1          0.0        0.0
Percent of Projects at Risk by Number a, d                       0.0          38.5          0.0        0.0
Percent of Projects at Risk by Amount a, d                       0.0          37.1          0.0        0.0
Disbursement Ratio (YO)e                                        22.8          41.5         27.3        0.4
Portfolio Management
CPPR during the year (yedno)                                     Yes           Yes           no        nla
Supervision Resources (total US$)                                819           828        1004        1176
Average Supervision (US$/project)                                 74             80          71         82


Memorandum Item                                     Since FY 80 Last Five FYs
Proj Eva1by OED by Number                                         13              6
Proj Eva1by OED by Amt (US$ millions)                         722.6          436.7
% of OED Projects Rated U or HU by Number                       30.8          16.7
% of OED Projects Rated U or HU by Amt                          23.6          19.0


a. As shown in the Annual Report on Portfolio Performance (except for current FY).
b. Average age of projects in the Bank's country portfolio.
c. Percent of projects rated U or HU on development objectives (DO) and/or implementation progress (IP).
d. As defined under the Portfolio Improvement Program.
e. Ratio of disbursements during the year to the undisbursed balance of the Bank's portfolio at the
   beginning of the year: investment projects only.
* All indicators are for projects active in the Portfolio, with the exception of Disbursement Ratio,
  which includes all active projects as well as projects which exited during the fiscal year.

                                Annex 8 - Croatia
                ~    ~~




                       IFC and MIGA Program, FY 2002-2005

                                                   2002 2003  2004  2005

IFC Original Commitments (US$m)                    8.38 29.40 0.00 148.04

Sector (YO)
Finance & Insurance                                 100    67    0     67
Industrial & Consumer Products
Pulp & Paper                                               33
Wholesale andRetail                                                    33
Total                                               100  100     0   100

Investment instrumenttOA)
Loans                                               100  100     0   100
Equity
Quasi-Equity
Other
Total                                               100  100     0   100

MIGA guarantees (US$m)

                    Annex 9 Summary of IBRD Nonlending Services Croatia
                                 -
                                                    FY 2005 FY 2008
                                                              -                             -

Product                                                  Completion FY      Cost (US$OOO)      Audience a/  Objective b/

Recent completions cl
EUICEM                                                         03                 613              GIDIB       KGIPS
Health Financing                                               03                  41              GIDIB       KGlPS
Municipal Capacity & Infrastructure Finance                    03                  47               G          KGIPS
Post-FSAP TA                                                   03                  39               GIB        KGIPS
Country Financial Accountability Assessment                    04                  79              GIDIB       KGlPS
Country Procurement Assessment Report                          04                  108             GIDIB       KGIPS

Underway dl
Reform and EU Accession Policy Notesl
 Workshops el, fl                                              05                 200           GIDIBIPD     KGIPDIPS
Fiduciary Country Systems Development
 for EU Integration TNIFA el, gl                               05                  100             GIDIB        KGIPS
Sources of Growth Workshop                                     05                  40              GIDIB        KGIPS

Planned dl, hl
Non-Bank Financial Institutions Integration TA                 05                  35               GIB         KGIPS
Living Standards Assessment el                                 06                  120          GIDIBIPD        KGIPS
Public Finance Review el                                       06                  250             GIDIB        KGlPS
Regional Development Study el                                  06                  120          GIDIBIPD     KGIPDIPS
Fiduciary Country Systems Development
  for EU Integration TNIFA el, gl                              06                  100             GIDIB        KGIPS
Reform and EU Accession Policy Notes1
 Workshops fl                                                  06                  200          GIDIBIPD      KGIPDIPS
Environmental Management Strategy el                           06                  160             GIDIB        KGIPS
Country Economic Memorandum                                    07                  250          GIDIBIPD      KGIPDIPS
Investment Climate Assessment                                   07                 120          GIDIBIPD      KGIPDIPS
Fiduciary Country Systems Development                           07                  60             GIDIB        KGIPS
for EU Integration TNIFA
Reform and EU Accession Policy Notesl
 Workshops                                                      07                 200          GIDIBIPD      KGIPDIPS
Reform and EU Accession Policy Notesl
 Workshops                                                      08                 200          GIDIBIPD      KGIPDIPS
Other TBD                                                       08

a1 Government (G), Donor (D), Bank (B), Public Dissemination (PD).
bl Knowledge Generation (KG), Public Debate (PD), Problem-Solving (PS).
cl The IMF recently completed ROSCs in banking supervision, payments system, and securities regulation.
dl Costs shown for these tasks are estimates.
el Proposed ECA client segmentation pilot activity; pilot funding requested for FY05.
fl To assess impact of policy option implemented elsewhere (e.g., EU8, other MICs, and OECD countries) in policy
   areas such as Public Administration Reform, Health, Railways, Public-Private Partnership for Municipal Services,
   Judicial Reform, Cost of Doing Business, Education, Decentralization, and Youth Employment.
gl Institutional Fiduciary Assessments (IFAs) to focus in particular on the social sector and environment
   ministries and agencies.
hl M A needed in high case - Energy Sector Strategy for EU Integration ($80k) and Infrastructure Sector Strategy
   for EU Integration ($80k) - will be launched only after assessing probability of high case.


                                        Annex 10 - Croatia
                                        FundRelations Note
               IMFRelationsand StaffAssessment ofEconomicDevelopments
                                          August 11,2005

This note provides the IMF staff's assessment of the Republic of Croatia's macroeconomic
conditions, prospects, and policy challenges, in view of the Programmatic Adjustment Loan
to be considered by the Executive Board of the World Bank. It also provides a status report
on the current Stand-By Arrangement with Croatia.

The current Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) covers2004 to early2006. The IMF i s
supporting Croatia's reform efforts with a 20-month SBA in an amount equivalent to
SDR 97 million, approved on August 4,2004. The authorities are treating the SBA as
precautionary. The ultimate objective o f the SBA i s to reduce external vulnerability, mainly
through a significant fiscal and quasi-fiscal adjustment during2004-05. The first SBA
review-originally      scheduled for March 2005-was        delayed owing to a fiscal slippage
earlier this year. In recent months, the authorities have taken corrective measures to bring
fiscal policy back on track and reached agreement with staff on a revised policy package
for 2005, on which basis a request for completion o f the first review i s being submitted to the
IMFBoard. Boarddiscussion o fthe review is tentatively scheduled for September 14.

The macroeconomic situation is stable. Real GDP grew by 3.8 percent in2004, though
growth slackened somewhat in early 2005. Staff expects growth in2005 to average around
3% percent. The 12-month CPI inflation rate was 2.7 percent at end-2004. Following a
temporary hike in early2005 in the wake o f winter storms, inflation has remained below
3 percent since May. Export growth has been strong and, despite higher oil prices, the current
account deficit narrowed beyond expectations in2004, with good performance continuing in
early 2005. Gross external debt stood at 83 percent o f GDP at end-May 2005, up slightly
from end-May 2004 (82 percent) owing to recent strong capital inflows to domestic banks,
but is still likely to stabilize at around 82 percent by end-2005.

Fiscal slippages in early 2005 were addressed only after a costly delay, leading to a less
ambitious fiscal deficit target for 2005. Policy implementation was broadly in line with the
program in2004, but weak implementation in early2005 and slowing growth made the
original 2005 budget deficit target (3.7 percent o f GDP) unattainable. Authorities and staff
agreed on a revised deficit target o f 4.2percent o f GDP for this year, supported by a
supplementary budget approved by parliament on July 13. While the easing o f the pace o f
fiscal adjustment vis-a-vis the original program i s regrettable, the revised target i s
accompanied by accelerated structural reforms and i s consistent with the macroeconomic
objectives o f the program, in light o f the faster-than-expected improvement o f the balance o f
payments in2004 and thus far in2005.

In a welcome step, the government has strengthened the structural component of the
program. Parliament recently approved two key measures well ahead o f schedule:
introducing administrative fees for health services, and changing the base o f pension
indexation from wages to a wage-price composite. Far-reaching reforms have been set in
motion in the areas o f health care, state aid and subsidies, public administration, and

                                            - 2 -




pensions. This ambitious structural reform agenda, that in several areas goes beyond the
original commitments under the SBA, addresses key fiscal issues. For example, the health
reform tackles a chronic fiscal concern. Thus, the structural component o f the program
provides reassurance that, despite the fiscal slippage this year, Croatia's broad medium-term
objectives remainwithin reach.

Monetary policy continues to play a supporting role. The Croatian National Bank (CNB)
i s focused on exchange rate stability, while allowing for small, mainly seasonal fluctuations.
Over the past year, the CNB has taken several measures to discourage foreign borrowing by
banks, including the introduction o f a marginal reserve requirement on new bank borrowing
from abroad.

A staff mission to discuss the second SBA review is planned for October. Discussions
will focus on the2006 budget and the need to offset the macroeconomic impact from the
recently-approved scheme to repay "pensioners' debt"-a       state liability arising from a 1998
Constitutional Court decision, currently estimated by the authorities at 7 percentage points o f
GDP-for     which cash outlays could reach 1-1 % percent o f GDP in2006 and 2007. Difficult
structural measures also remain on the agenda, notably scaling back state aid to shipyards
and steel and completing the reform o f supplementary health insurance.



