Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7330-HR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Programmatic Adjustment Loan) 
 
between  
 
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 20, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7330-HR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 20, 2005 between REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
August 8, 2005: (i) describing its macro-economic framework and a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to achieve and sustain structural adjustment of the 
Borrower’s economy during the period of 2004-2007 (hereinafter called the Program), 
which Program consists of actions and policies that have already been taken and adopted, 
in a satisfactory manner, by the Borrower as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
(hereinafter called the First Phase of the Program), as well as actions and policies that the 
Borrower intends to take and adopt prior to the subsequent phases of the Program; (ii) 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; and (iii) 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof;  
 
(B) on 
the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the First Phase of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making 
the Loan as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications thereto set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the First Phase of the Program, referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made”; 
 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
 
“Each withdrawal of an amount from the Loan Account shall be made in 
the Loan Currency of such amount.  The Bank, at the request and acting 
Page  3
2
as an agent of the Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency 
withdrawn from the Loan Account the currency or currencies of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted. 
 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
part of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations 
under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Loan.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 
 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“CPF” means the Croatian Privatization Fund, established pursuant to the 
Privatization Law, adopted on March 1, 1996 (Official Gazette 21/96), as amended on  
July 1, 1997 (Official Gazette 71/97); and July 19, 2000 (Official Gazette 73/00); 
 
(b) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“HZ” means Hrvatske Zeljeznice, the Croatian railway authority, 
established pursuant to the Borrower’s Railways Law, adopted on June 28, 1994 (Official 
Gazette 53/94), as amended on December 16, 1998 (Official Gazette 162/98); and  
 
(d) 
“Land Registry Law” means the Borrower’s law adopted on 
October 2, 1996 (Official Gazette 91/96) as amended on December 13, 2001, (Official 
Gazette 114/01) and July 14, 2004 (Official Gazette 100/04). 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred fifty 
million Euro (EUR 150,000,000).  
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the 
Loan Account in support of the First Phase of the Program. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request 
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in the Croatian National 
Bank, a deposit account in Euro on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  All 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan subject to any waiver of a portion of 
such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:  
 
(i) 
eighty-five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the 
date on which such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 of the General Conditions to but not including 
the fourth anniversary of such date; and  
 
Page  5
4
(ii) 
seventy-five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum 
thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate.  
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and  September 15, in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full 
on September 15, 2015.  
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
 
Page  6
5
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 (a) of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Bank may, from time to 
time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective date 
 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Katanciceva 5 
 
Zagreb, 10000 
 
Republic of Croatia 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
862-21215 or 
 
(385)1-492-25-83 
 
Zagreb 
  862-28133 
Page  7
6
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Zagreb, Republic of Croatia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 
By: /s/ Ivan Suker  
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Anand Seth  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112            
 - 
 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121            
- 
 
 
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122    
   
 - 
 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether  
 
or
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
 
525         
  - 
 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
 
667 
 
   - 
        
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked or worked 
 
718          
718.7 
 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof;  
 
fuel elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
 
728 
 728.43 
  Tobacco 
processing 
machinery 
 
Page  9
8
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
897          
897.3 
 
 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except watches and watch 
 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including set gems) 
 
971             
- 
 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as 
environmentally hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank); 
 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  10
9
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble  
to this Agreement 
 
Macroeconomic Framework
1. 
The Borrower has implemented prudent macroeconomic policy contributing to 
solid growth performance, and has maintained and has committed to maintain a 
satisfactory macroeconomic framework, consistent with the core objectives of the 
Program, including: (a) a growth rate of 3.8 percent in calendar year 2004 and an 
estimated growth rate of 3.7 percent for calendar year 2005; (b) a 12-month inflation rate, 
as of December 31, 2004, of 2.7 percent, and an estimated inflation rate of 3.0 percent as 
of December 31, 2005 end of period; (c) a fiscal deficit of 4.9 percent of Gross Domestic 
Product (GDP) for calendar year 2004, and an estimated fiscal deficit rate of 3.7 percent 
of GDP for calendar year 2005; (d) an external current account deficit of 4.2 percent of 
the GDP in calendar year 2004 and a target for the external current account deficit of 4.6 
percent of GDP for calendar year of 2005; and (e) public debt to GDP of 53.4 percent 
(including contingent liabilities), as of December 31, 2004, and an estimated public debt 
to GDP of 55.5 percent as of December 31, 2005. 
 
Improving Investment Climate
2. 
The Borrower has privatized, through CPF, ten (10) selected companies with 
majority state ownership, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower has adopted a corporate sector subsidy reduction plan with annual 
targets acceptable to the Bank, and has adequately reflected such targets in the State 
Budget for the calendar year 2005. 
 
4. 
The Borrower has amended the Land Registry Law to transfer land registration 
functions from judges to court registrars, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Strengthening Governance
5. 
The Borrower has adopted a new Civil Service Law, acceptable to the Bank and 
reflecting European Union (EU) standards. 
 
Enhancing Fiscal Sustainability of Sector Programs
6. 
The Borrower has caused HZ to prepare a medium-term business plan  
acceptable to the Bank, and has caused HZ to take actio
ns
required for reduction of HZ’s 
Page  11
10
working ratio to two hundred twenty percent (220%) in the calendar year 2005, including 
the following: (a) HZ has laid-off, through voluntary and involuntary retrenchment, 534 
staff from the mother company in accordance with the procedures agreed with the Bank; 
(b) HZ has ensured that staff eligible for retirement in 2005 has left HZ as per the 
retirement schedule; (c) HZ has not exceeded a limit of total 80 new staff hiring for 2005; 
(d) HZ has prepared a time-bound step-by-step plan for privatization of its subsidiaries 
during 2005-2009, and started its implementation; and (e) HZ has conducted further 
analysis to reduce services along or close uneconomic lines in 2006-2009.  
 
7. 
The Borrower has issued a decision establishing an adequate legal framework for 
HZ subsidiaries’ privatization, acceptable to the Bank. 
 
