                                     Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00003287



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H5090)

                                       ON A

                                      GRANT

              UNDER THE GLOBAL FOOD RESPONSE PROGRAM

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.40 MILLION
                       (US$ 5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF HAITI

                                      FOR A

        STRENGTHENING AGRICULTURE PUBLIC SERVICES PROJECT



                                February 20, 2015




Agriculture Global Practice
Haiti Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective December 2014)

                           Currency Unit = Gourde
                          Gourde 1.00 = US$ 0.0216
                          US$ 1.00 = 46.25 Gourdes

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           October 1 – September 30


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

 AOP       Annual Operating Plans
 BAC       Agriculture Communal Office
 CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
 DAAF      Directorate of Administrative and Financial Affaires
 DDA       Departmental Agriculture Directorate
 DEEDS     Economic Development for a Sustainable Environment
 DEFI      Rural Supply Chain Development Project
 DRF       Research and Training Directorate
 DG        Director General
 DSNCRP    Poverty Reduction National Strategy Document
 EA        Environmental Analysis
 EU        European Union
 FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization
 FIOP      Investment Proposal
 GDP       Gross Domestic Product
 GFRP      Global Food Response Program
 GOH       Government of Haiti
 IADB      Inter-American Development Bank
 IDA       International Development Association
 IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
 IFR       Unaudited Interim Financial Report
 ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
 IT        Information Technology
 LAC       Latin America and the Caribbean Region
 M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
 MARCHE    Market Chain Evaluation Project
 MARNDR    Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development
 MEF       Ministry of Economics and Finance
 MIS       Management Information System
 MPCE      Ministry of Planning and External Cooperation
 MPCE      Monthly per Capital Expenditure
 NGO       Nongovernmental Organization
 PDO       Project Development Objective
 PEMFAR    Agriculture Public Expenditure Review
 PIA       Agriculture Intensification Project
 PICV      Food Crop Intensification Project
 PIU       Project Implementation Unit
 PPI       Small Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
 PRODEP    Participatory Development Program

                                         ii
RESEPAG      Strengthening Agriculture Public Services
R&D          Research and Development
SOP          Standard Operating Procedures
SYSCOP       Accounting Software
SYSGEP       Project Management Monitoring System
TA           Technical Assistance
TP           Public Treasury
UEP          Planning and Studies Unit
USAID        U. S. Agency for International Development
UTES         Technical and Sectoral Environmental Unit




                           Vice President: Jorge Familiar Calderon
                        Country Director: Mary Barton-Dock
          Senior Global Practice Director: Juergen Voegele
                        Practice Manager: Laurent Msellati
                    Project Team Leader: Pierre-Olivier Colleye
                       ICR Team Leader: Eli Weiss
                              ICR Author: Daniel Gerber




                                          iii
                                               Haiti
                              Strengthening Agriculture Public Services

                                                     CONTENTS

Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Recipient Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 23
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Recipient/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 24
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 25
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 26
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 32
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 43
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 45
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 46
  Annex 7. Summary of Recipient's Final Report ........................................................... 48
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 51
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 53
  MAP




                                                             iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                       Strengthening
Country:              Haiti                  Project Name:             Agriculture Public
                                                                       Services
Project ID:              P113623                L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-H5090
ICR Date:                02/20/2015             ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:      SIL                    Recipient:             REPUBLIC OF HAITI
Original Total
                         SDR 3.40M              Disbursed Amount:    SDR 3.40M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          SDR 3.40M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development (MARNDR)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                           Revised / Actual
Process          Date              Process             Original Date
                                                                           Date(s)
Concept Review: 01/12/2009         Effectiveness:      10/13/2009          10/13/2009
                                                                           05/03/2010
Appraisal:       04/27/2009        Restructuring(s):                       06/27/2014
                                                                           08/27/2014
Approval:        06/25/2009        Mid-term Review: 10/31/2012             10/22/2012
                                   Closing:         06/30/2013             08/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                    Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                 Substantial
Bank Performance:                            Satisfactory
Recipient Performance:                       Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Recipient Performance (by ICR)
Bank                    Ratings             Recipient                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory        Government:                Moderately Satisfactory
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                   Satisfactory
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Recipient
                        Satisfactory                                   Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation                             QAG Assessments
                        Indicators                             Rating
Performance                                (if any)



                                             v
 Potential Problem
                                                    Quality at Entry
Project at any time        Yes                                            None
                                                    (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           Yes                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                          66                   60
Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and forestry     34                   40


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                      10                   30
Rural policies and institutions                              24                   30
Rural services and infrastructure                            66                   40

E. Bank Staff
Positions                  At ICR                                 At Approval
Vice President:            Jorge Familiar Calderon                Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Mary A. Barton-Dock                    Yvonne M. Tsikata
 Practice Manager/Sector
                           Laurent Msellati                       Ethel Sennhauser
 Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Pierre Olivier Colleye                 Diego Arias Carballo
ICR Team Leader:           Eli Weiss
ICR Primary Author:        Daniel P. Gerber

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The project development objective (PDO) is to enable MARNDR to prioritize and target
investments according to sector policies, and improve local agriculture support services.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target        Formally       Actual Value
                                           Values (from           Revised        Achieved at
Indicator       Baseline Value
                                           approval               Target         Completion or
                                           documents)             Values         Target Years


                                                vi
                  Rate of commitment of the operating budget (excluding salaries) at MARNDR central
Indicator 1 :     office
Value
quantitative or   80 percent                   95 percent                            95%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/01/2009                   07/01/2009                            06/30/2014
Comments
                  Achieved (100%): Based on the annual report produced by the M&E team of the
(incl. %          Ministry and confirmed by MEF report.
achievement)
                  MARNDR Investment budget reflects prioritization and targeting by the end of the
Indicator 2 :     second project year
Value
                                                                                     Substantially
quantitative or   N/A                          Completed
                                                                                     achieved
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/01/2009                   07/01/2009           10/22/2013       08/30/2014
Comments          Substantially Achieved: A review of policy and prioritization completed in the last year
(incl. %          of implementation shows investments are substantially targeted and aligned with sector
achievement)      strategies.
                  At least 3000 farmers receiving more diverse support services in the pilot zones before
Indicator 3 :     the end of the project
Value
quantitative or   280                          3000                                  4565
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/01/2009                   07/01/2009                            08/30/2014
Comments
                  Exceeded (152%): The program has generated high demand and with reallocation of
(incl. %          resources the quantitative objective has been well surpassed.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target               Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                               Values (from                  Achieved at
Indicator         Baseline Value                               Revised
                                               approval                      Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                    Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of MARNDR staff passing a skills test post training
Value
(quantitative     None                         80 individuals       dropped          N/A
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/01/2009                   07/01/2009           06/30/2014       08/30/2014
Comments
                  Dropped: Objective testing could not be conducted as no independent testing body exists
(incl. %          within government. Indicator was dropped in third restructuring.
achievement)
                  Preparation of Manuals of procedures for managing the operation and investment
Indicator 2 :     budgets
Value
(quantitative   None                       completed by year 2                       Completed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2009                  07/01/2009                                 08/30/2014
Comments        Achieved (100%): Following Manuals developed:

                                                    vii
(incl. %          -Accounting and Financial Management for projects
achievement)      -M&E manual of principles for investment projects
Indicator 3 :   Establishment of a functioning Environmental Unit inside MARNDR
                                                                              M&E unit of 3 people
Value                                                                         established within
                None, no environmental
(quantitative   safeguards capacity
                                             established by year 3            planning and
or Qualitative)                                                               programing unit of
                                                                              the Ministry (UEP)
Date achieved 07/01/2009                     07/01/2009                       08/30/2014
Comments
                  Achieved (100%): Unit established with 3 people, paid mostly from project funds but
(incl. %          with limited capacity for effective field supervision.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Increase the commitments of the operating budget (except salaries) in the DDAs to 70%
Value
(quantitative     45%                         70%                                  99.7%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/01/2009                  07/01/2009                           08/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Exceeded (152%): According to records of MEF fiscal year exercises ending 2012-2013
achievement)
                100% of procurement records over US$100,000 and managed by MARNDR published
Indicator 5 :   on its website
Value                                     10% first year                    100% of documents
(quantitative   None                      30% second year                   over US$ 100,000 on
or Qualitative)                           80% fourth year                   web site
Date achieved 07/01/2009                  07/01/2009                        08/30/2014
Comments
                  Achieved (100%): Some 20 records representing 100% of over US$100,000
(incl. %          procurements on web site.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Reduction from 15 days to 5 days for emission of checks
Value
(quantitative     15 days                     5 days                               4 to 5 days
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/01/2009                  07/01/2009                           08/30/2014
Comments
                  Achieved (100%): With adoption of software based accounting, check issuance reduced
(incl. %          to between 4 and 5 days
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Intranet and E-mail system installed for 300 MARNDR staff
                                                                                   260 E-mail accounts
Value                                         E-mail and intranet                  and connection of
(quantitative   None                          accounts for 300                     regional offices
or Qualitative)                               staff                                (DDAs) and research
                                                                                   farms in pilot areas.
Date achieved     07/01/2009                  07/01/2009                           08/30/2014
Comments          Substantially achieved (87%): Network established with computers and training on cloud
(incl. %          based site. Technical challenges with connections. IT unit informally established to
achievement)      support system maintenance.
                  FIOPs (project identification sheet) transmitted to MPCE for 80% of projects in the PIP
Indicator 8 :     (Public Investment Program)


                                                  viii
Value
                                                                                      100% of FIOPs are in
(quantitative     10%                          80%
                                                                                      the PIP
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/01/2009                   07/01/2009                             08/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Exceeded (125%)
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Creation of a registry of services providers and producers/beneficiary for pilot zones
Value             No records of                                                       Farm and service
(quantitative     producers/beneficiaries or   Completed in year 2                    provider register in
or Qualitative)   services providers                                                  place in pilot areas.
Date achieved     07/01/2009                   07/01/2009                             08/30/2014
Comments          Achieved (100%): Basic farm and beneficiary as well as services provider register
(incl. %          established with geo-referencing of land parcels with individual identification code by
achievement)      beneficiary. National expansion underway.
Indicator 10 :    At least 2 R&D studies completed in pilot areas
Value
(quantitative     None                         2 studies                              1 study
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/01/2009                   07/01/2009                             08/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Partially achieved (50%): A study on coffee value chain completed
achievement)
Indicator 11 :    Coverage Mechanism against agricultural risks elaborated in pilot zones
Value
(quantitative     No risk management           N/A                   Dropped          N/A
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/01/2009                   07/01/2009            06/30/2014       08/30/2014
Comments
                  Dropped: Indicator was dropped due to indirect relevance to overall project and due to
(incl. %          other donor program (CIDA) focusing on risk management in agriculture.
achievement)
                  20 agricultural agents trained and educational material on environmentally friendly
Indicator 12 : agricultural techniques prepared and disseminated in pilot zones

Value                                                                                 Some 38 offices
                                               5 in year 2                            trained and equipped
(quantitative   0
                                               15 in year 3                           with information
or Qualitative)                                                                       material
Date achieved 07/01/2009                   07/01/2009                                 08/30/2014
Comments
              Exceeded (153%): Environmental Unit Developed Integrated Pest Manual to help with
(incl. %      more effective application of pesticides and phyto sanitary treatments.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
    Date ISR
No.                      DO                           IP                            Disbursements
    Archived
                                                                                    (USD millions)
1     08/11/2009         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                  0.00


                                                     ix
2    02/17/2010      Satisfactory              Satisfactory              0.00
3    05/28/2010      Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   0.50
4    01/24/2011      Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   0.50
5    07/19/2011      Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   0.96
6    03/28/2012      Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   1.10
7    09/26/2012      Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   1.41
8    04/24/2013      Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   2.14
                     Moderately
9    12/03/2013                                Moderately Satisfactory 3.24
                     Unsatisfactory
10   06/09/2014      Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory 4.78
11   08/11/2014      Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory 4.97

H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings at Amount
              Board      Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
              Approved                  Restructuring
Date(s)                                               Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO     IP      in USD
                                        millions
                                                      Reallocation of resources to
                                                      address needs stemming from
05/03/2010    N          S      S       0.50
                                                      earthquake, plus first extension
                                                      of closing date to 6/30/2014.
                                                      Project second closing date
06/27/2014    N          MS     MS      4.78
                                                      extension to 8/31/2014.
                                                      Reallocation to input support
08/27/2014    N          MS     MS      4.97
                                                      program.


I. Disbursement Profile




                                               x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.    The socio-economic situation in Haiti deteriorated throughout the 1990s and early
2000s. Poverty remained endemic, inequality was severe, and Haiti’s social indicators
were among the lowest anywhere, signaling a chronic humanitarian crisis. At appraisal,
some 76 percent of its population lived below the poverty line, with 56 percent in extreme
poverty. The average per capita income of an extremely poor household was a mere 44
percent of the extreme poverty line, comparable to Sub-Saharan Africa. 1 Poverty was most
widespread in rural areas where education and economic opportunities are limited, and
basic social services and infrastructure are severely lacking. Some 90 percent of poor
households and 67 percent of extremely poor households lived in the rural areas at
appraisal.

2.     Livelihood challenges - Haiti had struggled to emerge from a cycle of political
instability and internal conflicts that devastated its economy, further weakened state
institutions, augmented poor governance practices, increased poverty and, at times,
prompted the withdrawal of external assistance to the government. The political situation
had become more stable in 2004, but in 2008, a combination of exogenous shocks, once
more showed the country’s high vulnerability to crises.

3.    In 2007, Hurricane Noel led to flash floods and mudslides in the western part of the
country, causing 66 deaths and 14,000 displaced families, while the 2008 hurricane season
brought four major storms and hurricanes (Fay, Gustav, Hanna and Ike), resulting in major
damage to roads, bridges, crops, and human suffering. The country had only limited
capacity for recovery from these events in spite of significant emergency aid.

4.    The country was also one of the worst affected by high commodity prices that had
increased beginning 2007, which led to higher food prices throughout the world. The crisis
most severely affected the poorest countries where a larger share of household income went
to food purchases at the detriment of other household expenditures. In Haiti, the food price
increases led to riots that presented a risk of increased instability. In response to the crisis
worldwide, the Bank established the Global Food Response Program (GFRP) and Haiti
would be one of the first beneficiaries with the Strengthening Agriculture Public Services
Project (RESEPAG).

5.      The role of agriculture in the economy - The country’s surface is 80 percent
mountainous with more than 50 percent of land having slopes steeper than 40 percent (that
does not lend itself to efficient production of field crops), with the exception of some large
irrigated valleys. At appraisal, Haiti was a net importer of agricultural products, but local
production of certain food products was thought to be internationally competitive and could
potentially be sourced in increasing quantities. Although the importance of the agriculture


1
 Haiti Living Conditions Survey 2003 report; according to international poverty lines of US$2 PPP and
US$1 PPP per capita per day.

                                                   1
sector had been declining, it remained a potentially important source of pro-poor growth
in Haiti, functioning as the backbone of the rural economy, generating some 25 percent of
total GDP at the time of appraisal and accounting for about 50 percent of overall
employment, 66 percent of employment in rural areas, and 75 percent of employment for
the poor.

6.     There were an estimated one million farmers in Haiti, who in large part lived in
poverty and experienced various levels of food insecurity. Average size of the holding was
about 0.5 hectare and productivity of local farming was constrained by the dominance of
small-scale subsistence farms, few or non-existent agriculture extension services,
insufficiently developed inputs and food supply chains, limited access to rural finance
markets, and the inability to meet increasingly important food safety standards.

7.      Public sector role in the agriculture sector - Public sector disbursements to
agriculture had diminished (in real terms) over the years, even as overall budget allocations
to the sector as percentage of total budget had risen from 3 to 4 percent. However, this
increase reflected more the large resources devoted to programs and projects mainly funded
by the donors rather than the government providing more resources to the Ministry of
Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development (MARNDR).

8.      The MARNDR, with its ten Departmental offices (DDA) and 155 Communal
offices (BAC) throughout the country (although only 40 were operational at that time), had
a relatively substantial presence in rural areas. While this presence was appreciated by
farmers and local organizations, service delivery was inadequate because MARNDR’s
decentralized offices needed enhanced staffing, equipment and linkages to the headquarters
in Port-au-Prince. MARNDR’s poor capacity in the field, together with administrative
constraints at headquarters, led the donors and partners to avoid direct involvement with
the ministry by creating “autonomous” project implementation units (PIUs). While these
PIUs were established to achieve expeditious results on the ground, this strategy of project
execution proved to have limited absorptive capacity.

9.       Rationale for Bank involvement - The World Bank had re-engaged in the
agricultural sector in Haiti after almost a decade of near absence. Re-engagement was in
part driven by the food price crisis. This project, with limited resources from the
International Development Association (IDA) and processed under the Global Food
Response Program (GFRP), was to be a testing ground for more extensive re-engagement.
The Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Haiti for 2009-2012 was near Board
approval. Agriculture was a key sector within the CAS. Given the Bank’s involvement in
public sector reform, this operation was expected to facilitate the transition from an era of
uncoordinated autonomous projects to one of consolidated steering capacity in the
MARNDR. The project was to coordinate with ongoing donor-financed agriculture, rural
development and public sector modernization programs. Particularly, close collaboration
with the Inter-American Development Bank’s (IADB) Rural Supply Chain Project was to
be established. This US$18.0 million project included institutional strengthening
components and investments that would complement some of this operation’s proposed
activities.

                                             2
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
10.    The project development objective (PDO) was to enable MARNDR to prioritize
and target investments according to sector policies, and improve local agriculture support
services.

11.      The key indicators as formulated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) were
(i) increase the MARNDR Central Office non-salary operating budget commitment rate (to
95% 2 ); (ii) prioritization and targeting of MARNDR investment budget (according to
agriculture sector policy3); and (iii) increase in the number of farmers (target of 3,000)
receiving local (and diverse) agricultural services in pilot areas. 4

12.      The proposed project represented the first stage of an expected fifteen to twenty-
year engagement with Haiti on agriculture public sector reform and development. In this
process, the government, through the MARNDR, was to regain the stewardship of the
public sector resources going to agriculture, fulfilling its normative and regulatory and
coordinating mandate. While ambitious, the proposed project was designed as a significant
first step in reengaging with the government for the sustainable development of agriculture
in Haiti.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
N/A

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
13.     The project had five categories of beneficiaries: (i) About 3,000 farmers in the pilot
areas around the Research Center of Ferme Levi and Thiotte-Savane Zombi; (ii) MARNDR
(at the headquarters level), including the General Directorate (DG) and its Planning and
Studies Unit (UEP), the Directorate of Administrative and Financial Affairs (DAAF), the
Directorate of Research and Training (DRF), and the newly established Environmental
Sectoral Technical Unit (UTES); (iii) MARNDR (at the local level), including the
Departmental Directorates of Agriculture (DDA) and Departmental Directorates of
Finance (DDF); (iv) Research and Development Centers of Ferme Levi and Thiotte-Savane
Zombi; and (v) input suppliers and services providers.

1.5 Original Components

Component 1: Strengthening MARNDR’s Managerial Functions (US$2.1 million) was to
finance (at the central and local level) two subcomponents.
14.     Subcomponent 1a: Sector policies and coordination (US$0.7 million). This
subcomponent was to finance the formulation and coordination of sector and subsector
policies, the mainstreaming of environmental aspects within the agriculture sector policy,


2
  From Results Framework
3
  According to agricultural sector policy. From Results Framework
4
  From Results Framework. Related to improving diversity of services, defined as mainly extension
services and incentives (partial re-imbursement grants to farmers).

                                                   3
and the prioritization of investment and regulatory instruments, which are today fulfilled
by the MARNDR’s Direction Générale (DG) and its Planning and Studies Unit (UEP).
The main products were: (i) the training of staff in policy issues for strengthening the
agriculture sector; (ii) the establishment of an Environmental Unit (UTES); and (iii) regular
inter-ministerial, sectoral, and sub-sectoral meetings between donors, nongovernmental
organizations (NGOs) and the government.

15.     Subcomponent 1b: Enhancing administrative, human resources (HR), and
fiduciary management (US$1.4 million). This subcomponent was to finance the
improvement of MARNDR’s administrative, HR, and financial management (FM),
including budgetary processes and procurement capacity. The main products were: (i)
procedural manuals for budget preparation, procurement, and administrative procedures
(including the project management monitoring system--SYSGEP); (ii) improvement in
check issuance, procurement processes, project monitoring and evaluation (M&E), and
harmonization of financial nomenclature between DDAs (Departmental Directorates of
Agriculture) and DDFs (Departmental Directorates of Finance); (iii) improvement in
communications by connecting MARNDR’s staff to email; and (iv) improved job profiles
and job family descriptions and management performance indicators and mechanisms.

Component 2: Strengthening Farmer Extension and Support Services (US$2 million)
16.     This component was to finance the expansion of the provision of improved
agriculture support services in pilot areas near the Research Center of Ferme Levi and the
Research Center of Thiotte-Savane Zombi. This component was executed by the UEP, in
coordination with the Directorate of Research and Training (DRF). It financed: (i) technical
assistance (TA) and training for extension agents, farmers, farmer-groups and service
providers (including environmental and social aspects); (ii) strengthening of local support
service structures (R&D Centers and DDAs); (iii) the development of a farmer and service
provider registry (including equipment and software); and (iv) incentive payments to
farmers for adoption of improved agriculture technologies that are both revenue increasing
and environmentally friendly.

17.    In pilot areas, a service contract was awarded to private operators of agriculture
support services with local experience (NGOs). A contract was in place between the
MARNDR and a financial institution for the payment of farmer subsidies. The operators
supervised the subsidy scheme in coordination with the MARNDR, in particular the local
DDA, but did not handle the financial resources. Farmer incentives for adoption of
technologies were to meet certain criteria in terms of beneficiary eligibility, type of
technology, and expected economic and environmental impacts.

Component 3: Project Coordination and Supervision (US$0.8 million)
18.    Project execution was the responsibility of the Director General (DG) of the
MARNDR. This component financed incremental costs associated with project
implementation. To support project coordination and supervision, this component was to
finance TA, operational costs, and other related costs. The Project Coordinator would be
a member of the DG advisory team, while fiduciary responsibility (procurement and FM)
would be with the DAAF. The Project Coordinator in the DG team was the primary Bank

                                             4
counterpart for the purposes of project supervision and interfaced with the fiduciary
functions of the DAAF and the various directorates responsible for the various
subcomponents.

1.6 Revised Components
19.     The components were substantially implemented as designed and most activities
were implemented as intended. Component 1 experienced a number of minor changes
including: (i) cancelling the proposed support for developing risk mitigation measures
because a more in-depth effort related to insurance mechanisms was already being
undertaken by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), (ii) dropping the
strengthening of the ministry's public relations and communication campaign; and (iii)
dropping the training and testing of ministry staff on agricultural policies due to lack of an
adequate testing body available to the ministry. Indicators related to these activities were
dropped in the final process of restructuring.

1.7 Other significant changes

20.     First Restructuring (Level 2): Given the hurricanes that pounded the country before
the project and the devastating effect of the earthquake in early 2010, followed by another
series of hurricanes, the project was restructured on May 3, 2010. This restructuring: (i)
reallocated resources from the farmer subsidy scheme under Component 2 to Component
1 to build and rehabilitate office space and facilities at the MARNDR headquarters in Port-
au-Prince after the damage caused by the earthquake; (ii) simplified the disbursement
categories by merging all categories related to Components 1 and 3; and (iii) extended the
closing date from June 30, 2013 to June 30, 2014. An obvious effect of the transfer of funds
from the farmer subsidy scheme was to reduce the number of beneficiary farmers from
3,000 to 1,500.

21.    Second Restructuring (Level 2): The project was restructured on June 27, 2014 to
extend the closing date by two months. The GOH had also requested a reallocation to
respond to a larger than expected demand for the farmer subsidy scheme (voucher incentive
program) deployed in the South and Southeast. However, the reallocation could not be
processed by the June 30, 2014 Closing Date due to posting errors (funds charged to an
incorrect category) that took several weeks to resolve.

22.     Third Restructuring (Level 2): The final restructuring approved on August 27, 2014
to address the GOH’s request included reallocating the Grant proceeds to increase the
financing for the voucher system for agriculture producers and dropping three activities
under Component 1a (see Section 1.6 above). The amount for vouchers, which was
decreased in the first restructuring, was increased in response to: (i) high demand for this
subsidy system and expectation that it would serve 4,500 producers instead of the 3,000
originally targeted; (ii) an increase in the average size of the subsidy as a response to an
increase in input prices (while remaining well below the maximum per-producer-amount
planned in the PAD); and (iii) the interest by a number of donors to scale-up this voucher
scheme to US$100 million, justifying an additional round of vouchers to strengthen the
process and draw possible lessons. This increased allocation was financed through a
number of savings from other activities, primarily: (i) a part of the consultant-related costs
                                              5
for the management of the voucher system were shifted to the second phase of the project
(RESEPAG2) (P126744) that was already under implementation; (ii) ministerial building
rehabilitation was covered by other donors; and (iii) completion of a number of activities
by other donors (e.g. agriculture insurance supported by CIDA, the creation of an unified
procurement unit and the strategy to consolidate research and development (R&D) in the
agricultural sector supported by IADB), or with financing by the ministry itself.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

23.     Background - The project was prepared after a long period of political instability
that left Haiti with more poverty, weakened institutions, and the withdrawal of external
assistance, including a notable retreat of the Bank’s operations in agriculture for over a
decade. The Bank maintained a dialogue with the government and undertook an
agricultural Public Expenditure Review (PER) in 2007. The study highlighted the
disconnect between: (i) the donor resources allocated and sectoral priorities; (ii) the lack
of continuity in programs and resources from year to year; and (iii) resource management
inefficiency and weak program monitoring and evaluation. Finally, in 2007, the global food
price crisis, which caused social tensions and riots, led to the establishment of the Global
Food Response Program (GFRP). Haiti was identified as one of the first beneficiaries and
within this context, the project was prepared rapidly (five months from concept review to
approval).

24.     Primary objectives – At the same time, the Bank was entering a deeper
reengagement with the country and preparing a Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) that
defined agriculture as one of the key sectors that would provide economic growth. The
project appropriately aimed to institute basic management systems that would help the
MARNDR to deliver substantial donor resources to farmers, generate growth from the
sector, and address the issues identified in the PER. The project simply aimed to return the
control of the development agenda to the ministry and help formulate policy and
monitoring in line with funding largely provided by donors. The preparation team was
composed of members with multifaceted skills and extensive experience. The strong
involvement of MARNDR staff and most of the technical directorates in project
preparation ensured full ownership.

25.     The project design – The project design reflected a longer term perspective of
reengagement in Haiti’s agricultural sector. This project would represent the first step to
improve the institutional and administrative capacity of the MARNDR while also
providing an immediate stimulus to local production to help mitigate food price hikes. The
design also allowed for strong ownership from all directorates of the MARNDR. However,
there were some weaknesses, particularly the large number of discrete consultancies
considering the low capacity of the ministry to either source these services or even integrate
them at the ministerial level. The PDO was vague, indicators did not necessarily reflect the
breadth of the objective and the results framework only partially reported on the expected
results of project activities.

                                              6
26.     The project had a number of disbursement categories for Component 2, intended to
protect technical assistance (TA) from potential redirection of project funds to subsidies.
In some ways, this made financial accounting and linking with specific project activities
complicated. Given the very weak capacity for FM in the ministry, this arrangement would
have presented a major continuing challenge during implementation. The first restructuring
of the project simplified the disbursement categories for consultancies to provide the
necessary flexibility in the project to provide TA where the needs were greatest, proactively
respond to MARNDR’s requests, and simplify ledger accounts and FM.

27.     The institutional arrangements reflected a desire to embed project management
within the government institutions without a separate PIU or coordination body. This
decision created ongoing challenges for the ministry, particularly related to satisfying the
fiduciary requirements of the Bank. While the project design specifically attempted to
counter this risk with consulting services in procurement and FM as well as the introduction
of a software-based FM system, this software was delayed by procurement challenges.

28.     Risks - Overall risks were adequately assessed and rated either Substantial or High.
Fiscal and financial constraints were realistically rated High. Indeed, without further
support from the follow-on project (RESEPAG2), the sustainability of the structures
established and capacities built within the ministry under the project would have been
unlikely to be sustained.

2.2 Implementation
29.     Impact of earthquake - After effectiveness, the project was immediately affected
by the earthquake that destroyed much of the ministry’s headquarters.

30.      Mid-term review - A mid-term review was undertaken in October 2012. The review
did not raise any significant issues beyond the delays with a number of key activities to
help administrative and budget performance at the ministry as well as the perennial FM
and procurement difficulties. The project and its activities were largely maintained. By
this time, the preparation of RESEPAG2 was already well advanced and it was understood
that it would strengthen some of these aspects.

31.     Main challenges - As explained above, the project faced challenges with the
fiduciary requirements. Staffing of a procurement specialist was initially delayed because
no qualified candidates could be found, even after three rounds with wide publication.
Moreover, the capacity to integrate comments and revise procurement packages in line
with comments from Bank procurement specialists was slow throughout project
implementation. Contract management was equally challenging with many major contract
deliveries, including the various information systems, only delivered within the last year
of implementation.

32.     As a consequence, the information technology (IT) networking of the MARNDR,
including its building in Port-au-Prince, its 10 regional offices, along with the research
farms, was only completed in early 2014. Similarly, the financial management software
for the ministry was completed about 18 months before the closing date. Activities related
                                             7
to strengthening the ministry were developed with a number of manuals and standard
operating procedures (SOPs) in the last year of implementation. Overall training was
reduced and focused mainly on the IT systems financed by the project.

33.     Aide Memoires report significant challenges in the development of the various
policy and training manuals. In the cases where they were drafted, the quality was
questioned by UEP. Some of the manuals and SOPs were not entirely completed and the
finalization of some of these products has been incorporated into the RESEPAG2 Project.

34.     The cost of the IT systems, network installation, registers and databases and
development of procedures were more expensive and time consuming than envisaged at
project appraisal. However, it was understood that concluding these systems was of
primary importance to meet the project objective and build systems that would benefit the
ministry beyond the immediate project. Ultimately, given the high demand for the voucher
program, as well as the availability of RESEPAG2 as a source of funding, the payments
under the voucher program were financed by the GFRP project before closing, and those
relating to other contracts were assigned for disbursement under RESEPAG2. This
arrangement was agreed between the task team leader and the Project Coordinator and
allowed the full absorption of the financial resources under the project, while dovetailing
important support services with the follow-on project.

35.     Introducing innovation in resource flow - The farmer support scheme required
careful coordination between the various actors involved in delivering the program, which
was normal for an innovative pilot project. Establishing the farmers registry and the
registry of service providers, as well as organizing the flow of the resources for the program
proved challenging. There were some interesting innovations that developed to make the
system work. For instance, farmers were expected to pick up vouchers directly from the
participating bank and proceed to input suppliers for their package of inputs, but this was
time consuming due to the distances involved. To resolve this issue, in agreement with all
parties, the operator was designated to pick up the vouchers at the participating Bank and
deliver them to the farmers. The operators ended up playing a much bigger role in ensuring
that inputs reached farmers and, in the process, somewhat weakened their primary role of
providing advisory and extension services. However, it was understood that getting the
voucher system to work in a transparent manner and building trust across all participating
parties took priority over farm advisory support. With subsequent rounds and resolution of
most of the glitches, the attention of operators has been refocused on providing technical
advice to farmers.

36.      Other external challenges - Project stakeholders were well aware that the project
was ambitious and risky. Beyond the many internal challenges that resulted from weak
institutional capacity, it had to contend with the realities that affect farmers every day,
including a severe drought affecting crop production during the first voucher campaign and
heavy pest infestation in the second campaign, affecting yields and the demonstrative
potential. The project also had to overcome the general skepticism of farmers who had over
the years, seen many unfulfilled promises of support. Similarly, convincing the
participating bank to open an account for each voucher recipient and input suppliers

                                              8
involved significant costs and was initially met with significant resistance. Over time
however, these accounts have been seen as an opportunity for future business ties,
especially with local input suppliers and for possible mobile phone-based payments.
Finally, limited imports often led to shortages of seeds, fertilizers and agro-chemicals at
the level of local input suppliers during the greatest seasonal demand.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
37.     The project had a basic and fairly broad PDO; there were no clear quantitative
variables and it was to be understood in a continuum of longer-term engagement beyond
the scope of this project. As the first step in a series of investments, project achievement
was to be measured by three key indicators that were formulated in a slightly different
wording and order in the results framework. These variables need to be considered in the
context of the reengagement of the Bank with the Ministry of Agriculture to build capacity
to improve policy making, monitoring, and streamlining of investments in line with an
overall vision.

38.     Quality of the M&E framework: The premise of the M&E framework was that once
certain activities were completed or consultancies delivered, the development objective
would be achieved, and this was reflected in the three outcome indicators. However, the
indicator measuring prioritization of budget resources with overall policy objectives was
not clearly defined and there was no target to assess achievement. It is also clear that an
open-ended indicator related to objectives such as alignment of budgets with strategy and
improvements in services delivery represent by definition, elements that can be subject to
near continuous improvement and refinement up until the point where costs would outstrip
benefits. Overall, the results framework included useful information that would make
tracking of progress fairly straightforward.

39.     Use of the M&E data for project management. The M&E data was collected from
the main technical partner unit (UEP). By the mid-term review however, it was clear that
more efforts had gone into developing processes and procedures for M&E to improve
overall institutional capacity than into the effective collection of project data to report on
the results framework. Generally, M&E data was obtained too late to be used effectively
or to reorient the project in a significant way. Yet, once the financial management system
was in place to support better oversight, a quick reallocation was processed to ensure these
resources could be absorbed quickly and effectively. Data on indicators and the results
framework were only substantially completed in the last year of implementation.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

40.     Environmental safeguards - The project was rated as a B category, with an
environmental assessment. The assessment did not identify significant risks and assessed
project environmental impacts to be mostly favorable. The agriculture support, composed
of a technical package involving inputs and advisory support, helped ensure the
minimization of any negative environmental impacts. No environmental issues were raised
during implementation and the project focused on building the capacity of the
environmental unit and ensuring input packages followed guidelines that were developed
                                              9
by the environmental unit. Specifically, the environmental unit developed an integrated
pest manual that is part of any crop support program.

41.     Social Safeguards - The project was not associated with any social safeguard risks,
however the importance of gender was identified. In response, the project appointed a
gender specialist to conduct targeted information campaigns and ensure adequate
participation of women in the program. The newly established M&E unit has a permanent
gender specialist in its ranks.

42.     Fiduciary – The project introduced FM software, a new accountant was engaged
near the end of implementation and overall fiduciary performance started showing gradual
improvements. This FM system is expected to improve the follow-up project, RESEPAG2
notably and future donor-funded projects administered by MARNDR. During early
implementation, the project struggled with fiduciary compliance with challenges in both
procurement as well as FM. Procurement delays accumulated mainly due to weak capacity
and little familiarity with the Bank’s procurement rules. In spite of intensive
implementation support, timely responses to comments from the Bank’s procurement
specialist and management of procurement documentation and contracts remained a
constant challenge. The weak procurement capacity also delayed the introduction of the
financial management software. Due to mainly manual bookkeeping and ledger accounts
on paper, significant delays were experienced with processing of payments and production
of Interim Financial Reports. Similarly and as a result, audits were delayed. The rating for
both FM and procurement in the last Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) were
moderately unsatisfactory in spite of gradual improvements.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

43.    Institutional capacity building is always a challenging undertaking that takes some
time. Haiti offers particular difficulties given the political climate, weak institutional
capacity as well as a high vulnerability to natural catastrophes that disrupt the process.

44.     IT infrastructure and registers - The investments in IT have the potential to improve
the efficiency of the ministry and its departmental offices. While equipment, networking
and training to users has been delivered, the management of an IT network for a
decentralized structure such as the MARNDR remains an ongoing activity. To date, a
functioning IT unit responsible for: (i) system maintenance; (ii) IT technical support to
users; and (iii) updating of the system and software troubleshooting remains to be
effectively established, although both the Bank and the IADB have stepped forward with
support. The internet links with field offices (DDAs) are unstable and prone to connection
issues that field offices typically do not have the capacity to resolve. Fortunately,
RESEPAG2 as well as other donor programs are supporting the IT system since the farmers
and services provider registries offer a platform to help improve transparency and data
collection for all donor-financed programs in agriculture. In the medium term, the ministry
needs an IT strategy that will help it define how to sustain the system, where to house the
platform (within the ministry or cloud storage as present), and address staffing and
financing.


                                             10
45.     Environmentally sustainable agricultural policy making and programming - Five
technical staff were hired as consultants and assigned to the various technical units of the
ministry. Three of these specialists form the Environmental Unit and help in developing
the guidelines and environmental safeguards for projects. In addition, they have developed
a number of manuals on specific environmental topics that will be distributed to extension
offices to mainstream environmental measures into the services. The most recent
document is an Integrated Pest Management handbook. Looking forward, the ministry will
need to address the regulatory and legal framework given that their responsibilities are not
aligned or sometimes even conflict with the responsibilities of the Ministry of Environment.
There is also a lack of enforcement capacity as there are no Agricultural Inspectors in the
country and the few staff of the unit cannot undertake systematic field inspections for all
the projects of the ministry.

46.     Monitoring and Evaluation capacity - One of the broader expected project
outcomes was the establishment of an M&E unit. The first step in building this capacity
has been achieved: the ministry is producing an annual report on its activities and
agricultural-related projects and a budget based on the conclusions of the annual report of
the previous fiscal year. This report establishes a foundation for streamlining of programs
and policy. Effective annual reports had not been produced for over 30 years and activities
had largely evolved in individual departments with little strategic control of resources. The
annual report is now an important undertaking that collects information from all programs
and involves all program leaders as a joint undertaking to provide an understanding of
programs and activities. The report provides a basis for better policy making and
programming and more targeted and efficient use of financial resources.

47.     Accounting Software SYSCOP – RESEPAG 1 and 2 are now using the SYSCOP
accounting software, after some initial difficulties. Eventually, a full transition of the
ministry’s accounting systems is expected. Moving forward, the ministry will need to
address overall IT capacity and the maintenance of the system as well as finding accounting
staff familiar with IT-based FM. To optimize the value of this investment, it will be
important that the ministry strengthens overall FM and budget management capacity and
fully adopts digital bookkeeping and FM for programming as well as administration.

48.     Farm support mechanism - The project has established an innovative, transparent,
more efficient and trusted subsidy mechanism for farmers that stimulates the development
of a better input supply market and an overall improved supply chain in the country.
However, there is a lack of sufficient supplies in country, leaving suppliers often short of
quality seed, fertilizer and phytosanitary products. Future efforts will have to address
increased use and demand by input providers.

49.    At present, RESEPAG2 is addressing some of these pending issues with continued
funding for building the capacity and personnel in IT, M&E, FM, the Environmental Unit,
as well as maintaining the specialists supporting the nutrition and gender agenda. The
RESEPAG project laid the groundwork for the MARNDR’s improved capacity for policy
formulation and alignment with available funding, reporting on results and transparent use
of resources. This was a small project, designed as the first stage of a 15 to 20 year

                                             11
engagement with Haiti and therefore, it was also understood that more work would be
needed for the functions and accompanying capacity to be sustainable. The pilot program
was innovative, not just for Haiti, but also for the overall global rural development and
agriculture sector.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
50.      Relevance of Objectives - The project, its PDO and its outcomes remain a priority
and highly relevant. The effective absorption of donor resources remains one of the primary
challenges for the Haitian government because it obtains a substantial amount of resources
from donor support that is for the most part, delivered via individual projects. The
development of an annual report and the ensuing budgeting process help to rebuild the
credibility of the ministry with donors. The systems put in place by this project, which
have been strengthened and adopted by other donors, will help the ministry to consolidate
its efforts and improve the synchronization of activities across its own and donor-financed
programs.

51.     Relevance of Design and Implementation - The project design addressed
fundamental institutional and administrative weaknesses of the ministry and is thus highly
relevant. Based on data available from the independent evaluation, the improvement in
administrative and institutional capacities has also led to an increased alignment of
investments with sector strategies and policy to ensure that limited resources are
increasingly focused on policy priorities. With the strengthening of the M&E and FM
systems and procurement capacity, the MARNDR is now in a much better position to
implement, monitor and evaluate a project. The voucher system, with its clear mechanism
to improve services and input delivery to farmers, has brought renewed interest by the
donor community in working with the MARNDR to improve sector productivity and food
security as required under the GFRP. All of these factors are crucial pieces to secure
continued necessary external financial support. The close linking of RESEPAG and
RESEPAG2, and good coordination with other donor activities, has helped build synergies
and maximize the impact of the project’s limited resources. Given the above, the ICR rates
the relevance of the project design as High.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
52.      The PDO involved (i) the improved targeting of investments in line with sector
policies and (ii) improved local agricultural services. The degree to which these objectives
were to be achieved was not clearly defined, reflecting the intent for this project to be the
first step in a longer term engagement. Both of these variables are value judgments that are
not answered by either yes or no, but reflect objectives to strive towards. These aspects of
the PDO were assessed as below:

   (i)     The regular cycle of strategic planning, investment program development,
           implementation of the investment program along with M&E of program
           achievement, and policy adjustments takes a number of years to be effectively
           implemented and is subject to continual improvements. The project
                                             12
           substantially delivered improved processes and procedures by: (i) formalizing
           the process of developing investment proposals (FIOPS) (ii) aligning these
           proposals with the investment plans by requiring formal approval, and (iii) re-
           introducing the annual report listing and reporting on the performance of each
           investment of the ministry, thus ensuring that increasingly, resources are spent
           in line with overall policy objectives.
   (ii)    The improvement of local agricultural services is understood to be improved
           extension and advisory services as well as the efficient, transparent and market-
           friendly delivery of incentives to farmers. The gradual improvement of these
           services has many facets and the project made a crucial step forward by
           installing transparency into support programs. Systems now exist that record
           the beneficiaries and the service provider, and there is a clear mechanism for
           support to reach farmers and for timely payments, while crowding-in the private
           sector. These systems have an almost unlimited capacity to be refined,
           augmented and improved, but at present, farmers within pilot areas are
           benefiting from improved local agricultural services. The mechanism
           established in this little “pilot” of two million dollars is being improved,
           adopted and has generated a commitment of about 100 million dollars from
           other donors, eventually to cover the entire country.
53.     PDO indicator #1: increasing the rate of commitment of the operating budget at
MARNDR. This indicator has been achieved. There is a commitment rate of 95 percent of
the operating budget according to reports of the Ministry of Finance and the MARNDR’s
annual report. The project has helped develop systems and processes to improve the
efficient use of budget resources, including the enforcement of systematic programming of
project investment proposals into the Public Investment Plan of the ministry, thus providing
information on how investment resources are committed up front. This information is then
verified with the systematic production of an annual report that compares projects’
investments with outputs and deliverables.

54.     Reintroduction of an actual budgeting process and production of an annual report
that involves reporting and information provision by all project managers across projects
is a major milestone in the ministry’s capacity to justify its resources with the Ministry of
Finance, the parliament and donors. This process had not been performed for nearly 30
years, ever since the political turmoil after Duvalier’s resignation. Thanks to these
processes, the Minister of Agriculture successfully requested additional investment
resources from the MEF in 2013, mainly due to his ability to account and document how
investment resources have been spent on projects and the actual outputs achieved. While
this says little about the actual impact of the individual projects on agricultural productivity
and economic rates of return, it provides for improved transparency of the investment
budget, which was one of the main problems with the ministry and a key reason for the
gradual withdrawal of donor resources from the agriculture sector.

55.     While optimal budget efficacy can only be achieved once there is capacity to
provide effective M&E of projects aligned with policy goals, the capacity to manage
project financial resources reasonably and transparently, with the new accounting/ FM
software and manual is a major achievement, even if the software is not yet used to its full
                                              13
capacity. Improvements in FM are also the result of enhancements in procurement. A new
unit was established with clear transparent procurement rules and the systematic
publication of any purchase greater than US$100,000. The improved budget transparency
has already born fruit as the agricultural sector is attracting increasing donor funds. The
achievement is rated Satisfactory.

56.      PDO indicator #2: MARNDR investment budget reflecting prioritization and
targeting - The PAD results framework included an independent evaluation of the
MARNDR budget and prioritization of its expenditures, which was carried out in the last
semester of the project. Given that only two fiscal years were analyzed, the alignment
question remains somewhat open as this only happens gradually as programs that are not
closely aligned are replaced with better aligned programs. However, evidence is available
to suggest that indeed, this alignment of policy with resources has improved in a continuing
trend. The study notes that the alignment was adapted to the investment program rather
than policy guiding the program. According to the ministry, the prioritization is taking
place in the sense that programs receive budget resources in line with sector policy
priorities. Yet, this is only part of the equation as prioritization should not only be based
on timing of budget resources availability, but on strategic priorities reflected in the
investment plan in accordance to a schedule and milestones.

57.     Capacity in the ministry related to prioritization and targeting has increased. While
the assessment was only based on a limited set of data, there has been significant effort to
improve the ministry’s capacity to select the most effective and efficient investments. The
new M&E unit within the programming department (UEP) is committed to preparation of
the annual report starting each year in July, which helps with tracking resources and
expenditures. At the same time, prioritization and targeting of resources is an ideal that is
never really completely achieved and represents a continuum. This alignment can be
perfected almost to the infinite and remains an issue, even for many developed economies.
Discussions with ministry staff and project personnel indicate that the project has brought
significant changes. Before the project, various programs were often conducted “off the
public investment plan” without any evident policy targeting and as a response to some
political or economic objective of well-connected individuals or groups in the regions or
the capital. In spite of only a short time series, the achievement is rated Satisfactory.

58.     PDO indicator #3: farmers receiving more diverse support services in pilot zone
- This indicator was exceeded. More than 4,500 farmers have benefitted from the support
services developed under the project, representing nearly 1.5 times the target. The support
services were delivered as a voucher that provided farmers with financing for inputs,
combined with a technical package including basic advice on crops, pest and weed
management and fertilization, including the optimal harvesting time. Although this was not
one of the project objectives, significant yield increases where achieved that also stimulated
surrounding producers to adopt the techniques delivered under the project. The main
achievement was not just the delivery of services to farmers, but the successful creation of
mechanism for providing support services that can be replicated nationwide. The various
pieces of the system are major institutional achievements that will pay dividends well
beyond the project closing. The farm/beneficiary and services provider register is a major

                                             14
achievement in itself. This register will help the ministry well beyond this project to have
an overview of the sector, target its resources, refine objectives in line with farmer demands
responding to market needs and more effectively target support to respond to disasters or
emergencies in the sector.

59.      The voucher system offers a basis to develop efficient and transparent agricultural
support programs with disbursement mechanisms that prevent interference or possible graft
and build trust between the ministry and its ultimate customers, the farmers. The system
by which the financial resources reach the farmer via a third party operator has permitted
a wholesale change in how goods and services are provided to farmers shifting from the
purchase and distribution of inputs by the Government to a private provision of these
goods/services. The pilot has shown considerable increases in both yields and cultivated
areas and, with the interest that this approach has generated from other donors who have
already committed some US$100 million to scale up the operation, it will be important to
re-visit these beneficiaries in a few years to evaluate the long-term impact. The IADB, who
is also implementing a voucher program using the methodology of the pilot, is in the
process of conducting an impact evaluation which should further inform policy decisions
(see Annex 3 and 8). Services and input supply providers have also benefitted and were
crowded-in as the program has stimulated demand for their services.

60.     The system is operating and expanding as it has been accepted by other donors as
an effective vehicle to bring resources to the agricultural sector. However, there is still a
challenge related to the national supply of inputs, which remains unpredictable, of uneven
quality and often poorly timed with the agricultural seasons, leading to shortages at the
local village level. If delivery cannot be completed in a timely fashion, not only does
productivity suffer, but the trust in the mechanism developed under the project might be
undermined over time.

61.     Under the project design, extension and advisory services were to be provided
substantially by the operators, who were often not able to satisfy their advisory extension
function fully as part of the project. The next generation of vouchers financed by other
donors has already incorporated a stronger role of extension services based on the
experience of this pilot. However, evidence of more intensive cropping with peas and beans
in the winter season shows the value added at the farm level from the project and indicates
the potential high impact of such advisory support. The achievement is rated Satisfactory
because the project reached 1.5 times more beneficiaries than planned, successfully
established and tested an agricultural support services delivery mechanism, and had a
positive impact on overall production.

3.3 Efficiency
62.     The methodology used for the financial and economic analysis at appraisal
consisted of a break-even analysis for the project as a whole and a separate economic
assessment for Component 1 (institutional strengthening) and Component 2 (voucher
system). The break-even analysis was based on the assumption that institutional
strengthening by the project would accelerate the disbursements in the Public Investment
Program (PIP) of the MARNDR and hence would have a positive impact on the rate of
return of the project. To analyze Component 1, it was assumed that project benefits would
                                             15
materialize through an increase of overall agricultural GDP. For Component 2, a cost-
benefit analysis was carried based on the improved coffee production model.

63.      The analysis conducted at project completion does not attempt to reconstruct the
analysis conducted at appraisal for the following reasons: (i) the link between the
institutional strengthening by the project and disbursements of the PIP is very uncertain
and the assumption that the project would accelerate the disbursement rate of the PIP seems
to be overly optimistic; and (ii) given the overall impact of the devastating earthquake on
the country as a whole and on the agricultural sector in particular, the comparison between
the agricultural GDP before and after project couldn’t show pertinent results. The analysis
conducted at project completion looked at the benefits (financial and economic) resulting
from institutional strengthening and the voucher system using key M&E data collected by
the project and the mission’s findings to provide an estimation of the economic return of
technologies introduced by the project.

64. Component 1 involves benefits gained from improved policy with an increased
alignment of policies with sector investments. Benefits are gained from more efficient
public administration, improved procedures for design, approval and implementation of
projects, more efficient communications, and improved financial management and public
procurement processes. All of these improvements lead to a better return on investment
from the yearly agricultural budget. Individually, the main benefits of this component can
be identified as follows:

65. IT networking and communications improvements:
• Reduction of the transaction costs due to the installation of the internet with a unique
   contract subscription with the provider. Economies of scale due to the centralization of
   the procurement of IT/communications (internet subscription, maintenance).
• Number of field trips that could be reduced thanks to the wider use of email and
   teleconferencing (cameras, speakers and microphones installed by the project).
• Cloud computing and relocation and storage of documents and data on the "cloud".
   Creation of a reliable institutional archive.
• Positive impact in terms of image, communication and corporate identity of the
   MARDNR, with the creation of domain <www.agriculture.gouv.ht> and professional
   emails (.gouv.ht).
• Change in the approach to IT and its management. The most important trend is that the
   MARDNR is moving from crisis management to long-term management.

66.     M&E improvements:
• Sector policy framework has been elaborated for the fiscal year 2015/16 based on the
    analysis of results achieved and summarized in the public balance sheet. The
    framework is an asset for better targeting of the government’s investments in the
    context of national budget preparation and approval.
• Gradual increase of the financial envelope provided by the state to the agricultural
    sector with an improvement in the quality of the argument for the budget presented at
    the House of Deputies.


                                            16
67.     Component 2. Improvement of local support services to agriculture/Farm
Input Subsidy Program. The Farm Input Subsidy Program, together with agricultural
extension and training, generated some positive overall economic results in terms of crop
performance as well as higher sown area (for maize and beans). The technical package
introduced by the project has been beneficial in terms of agricultural production and from
an environmental prospective, given a better regulation of use of chemical fertilizers and
pesticides. Positive environmental externalities associated with increasing soil fertility and
soil conservation would be difficult to quantify, however, they can be subject to a longer-
term assessment.

68.     Economic crop models. To conduct an economic analysis of crop production
supported by the system of incentives (beans and coffee), financial models have been
recalculated using their economic values. The final report of RESEPAG1 indicates that
nearly 57 million Gourdes (about US$ 1.36 million) have been invested at the farm level
through the subsidy program. Given the data collected on the increase in agricultural
production, the volume of the additional agricultural production would represent nearly
5,489 tons of corn, 2,674 tons of beans and nearly 108 tons of coffee, with the total value
of incremental production of about US$ 3.4 million, or US$ 2.56 of additional food
production generated for each USD 1 of subsidy. In addition, evidence shows that the
benefit doesn’t only last for one year, but for the years to come, although with a slight
decrease after the first year. The EIRR from increased crop production is estimated to
amount to some 33 percent. If one assumes that the project was instrumental in attracting
another US$100 million thus far and expecting similar yield and area increases, the rates
of return would be substantially higher.

69.     Project Estimated Return. At appraisal, it was assumed that project benefits would
materialize through an increase of agricultural GDP. Under this assumption, an EIRR of
16% was estimated. At completion, given the overall impact of the earthquake on the
country as well as on the agricultural sector in particular, the comparison between the
agricultural GDP before and after project cannot show pertinent results and therefore a
different analytical approach has been used. It should be noted that the EIRR includes the
costs of all investments for the two components as well as their recurrent costs and on the
benefits side, it includes the benefits quantified previously. The Economic Internal Rate
of Return (EIRR) of the project as a whole at completion is estimated at 16%, which is
comparable to the results assumed at appraisal. Adding the unquantifiable benefits (see
Annex 3) would certainly raise the ERR substantially.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory
70.     RESEPAG was a small, but ambitious institutional project. In spite of all the
challenges, some outcomes exceeded expectations, particularly the innovative pilot for
providing agricultural services.
• Relevance: The PDO was to be seen in the context of a longer term engagement. The
    project was conceived as the first in a series of steps that linked with the closely



                                             17
    coordinated follow-on project, and other donor-funded programs designed to improve
    the capacity of the ministry to deliver on its mandate. The relevance is rated High.
•   Efficacy: The project has helped to improve the budget transparency and administrative
    capacity of the ministry and delivery of support services in pilot areas. While
    investments related to the capacity building, including IT networking, database
    development and TA for M&E, were higher than expected at appraisal and have faced
    significant implementation challenges, the outcomes are important in terms of the
    ministry’s capacity to function and deliver on its mandate. The creation of a sustainable
    and continuously perfectible system for subsidy payments, and improvements in the
    M&E has helped to improve the ministry’s efficacy in supporting the agricultural sector.
    The efficacy is rated Satisfactory.
•   Efficiency: Efficiency could be considered Highly Satisfactory because this project
    has played a major role in attracting substantial donor resources and improving capacity
    to monitor investment programs in the agricultural sector. There were understandable
    delays with implementation and a need for cross financing of some of the expenditures
    for the TA delivered by operators by RESEPAG2. Given the various assumptions that
    can be made, especially as this project was conceived as the first step of a longer term
    engagement, the overall efficiency is rated Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
71.     From inception, the project put a strong emphasis on the role of women in
agriculture. It is estimated that about 30 percent of participants under the voucher program
are women. The gender specialist that is now part of the ministry has been coordinating
efforts with the Ministry of Women’s Status and Rights to deliver awareness on improved
nutrition and family health in project areas. Agricultural extension can (and has in the past
in a number of developed countries) play a key role in helping women to develop
agricultural production and provide training or advice on home economics, including
sanitary food preparation, food preservation, a balanced diet and child and family health.
A permanent gender specialist in MARNDR provides the potential to design programs that
improve agriculture, but also help with improving the overall status of farm families and
strengthening the crucial role women play in rural areas.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

72.     The project has built basic capacities in the ministry that will help it in its function
as an administrator of donor-funded programs and with its broader mandate. The project
also helped to improve transparency of resources used with the introduction of software-
based accounting and FM and a return to a systematic budgeting process with an annual
report. Institutional capacity has been built by establishing (i) a unit for M&E, (ii) an
environmental unit, (iii) gender capacity within a sub-unit, (iv) a permanent procurement
unit, and (v) a nascent IT unit. Even though all these bodies have not yet been fully
systematized in the ministry’s administration, they provide the groundwork to deliver on
its mandate to provide services to the rural communities and its responsibilities for
agriculture and natural resources.



                                              18
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
73.     While the project did not have any direct agricultural productivity objectives, the
various sowing campaigns have produced yield increases from anywhere between 50 and
60 percent depending on crop type. Sowing on time with a bit of fertilizer can have major
impacts on productivity. The pilot voucher activity has been scaled up and lessons learned
included in the next generation of the vouchers. The challenge once there is more
generalized productivity will be to work downstream to help with supply chains to markets.
Prices of some of the supported crops have already dropped in the pilot areas due to the
additional supply and larger farmers are envisaging storage facilities for their production
in order to be able to sell between seasons when prices are higher.

74.     The vouchers have had an impact on reducing fallow land, with beneficiaries
returning to cultivation of their unused land. In the area of Les Cayes, voucher campaigns
planned for 350 hectares had a real impact on about 1,000 hectares. Other unintended
impacts were the increase in the interest of the producers in good environmental practices
and nutritional issues, the increase of the national production in the supported value chains
and related increased food security.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

75.      A participatory evaluation of the project was undertaken in December 2014
involving consultations with the various stakeholders in the Les Cayes region. The
discussions with operators focused on the process of managing the voucher mechanism.
The opinion expressed was that this process is beneficial as it had developed trust between
the various parties involved in processing the transaction. The DDA praised the program
for its effectiveness in getting the supplies to the field, which under the previous system
was not functioning because many suppliers (who are also farmers) tended to horde
supplies speculating on increasing prices resulting in very poor timing of input deliveries.
Overall, farmers were grateful and expressed satisfaction with the project design. The
impact has been that a number of participants reported that school fees could be paid for
children or some made investments to increase production or improvements to the home
and household. Some complaints were raised as to the timing of the delivery of the inputs
and the fact that other inputs, such as certain pesticides for specific infestations, were not
available. Suppliers reported a significant improvement in the volumes in sales that helped
them to invest and specialize more as services providers, retreating from farming altogether.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial
76.     As a project with mostly institutional objectives, the main risks include political
instability since the entire reform agenda was agreed with and supported by the ministers
of the MARNDR in office during preparation and implementation. The same risk relates
to the voucher mechanism, which has been backed by current ministers with a clear vision
and who have been willing to test the pilot and support scale up.

77.   The mechanisms, units and processes established under RESEPAG are dependent
on adequate financing of the ministry’s administrative budget to ensure that the newly

                                             19
engaged personnel are permanently absorbed into civil service. Most of the units
established are not yet reflected in the ministry’s functional diagram or organizational chart.
The units are mostly established as cells and funded from donor project resources, located
within existing ministerial units such as the planning and programming unit (UEP).

78.     A concern relates to the IT system and databases that have been developed under
the project. Reportedly, the MARNDR was the first ministry to adopt IT and, in spite of
some problems, it is ahead of the entire government structure. While IT systems offer the
potential for huge efficiencies, they also generate costs in staffing and equipment for which
a vision is necessary at both, government and ministerial level. Further support from donors
has been provided to make this happen. It will be crucial that the MARNDR takes a
leadership role in helping government to formulate its own IT strategy and help
avoid/minimize compatibility issues or getting locked into provider arrangements that
make harmonization and establishment of system linkages difficult or impossible.

79.     A key issue that is threatening the voucher system relates to the import of
agricultural inputs and the adequate supply. To date, imports seem mostly managed by the
government or by only very few companies that fulfill the necessary licensing requirements.
It is imperative that the government facilitates the development of more competition in the
private import market to ensure a more secure supply of agricultural inputs. The voucher
system helps in ensuring that farmers are the ultimate beneficiary of the subsidy and when
packaged with advisory services, the project showed real potential for crop productivity
improvements. However, the system could collapse under its own demand if the necessary
supplies cannot be acquired by the local suppliers and ultimately provided to farms with
adequate quantity, quality and at the right time for sowing/planting.

5. Assessment of Bank and Recipient Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory
80.     After several years of very limited engagement, this project was prepared to address
an emerging need in the agriculture sector and it was an urgent investment as donor fatigue
was beginning to affect continued support. The design also included variables that were
identified as part of the GFRP, including boosting production and reducing risks that lead
to food shortages and price hikes, both of which affected the country at the time of project
preparation. Due to the intent of mitigating the food crisis, the project was prepared in a
record time (six months from identification to Board approval). The risks were adequately
taken into account and proper mitigation actions set up. The project contributed towards
ensuring a sustainable footprint of agriculture in the island’s overall environment and build
awareness of the role of environment and gender in rural areas and women’s contribution
in the sector. The widespread interest of the donor community in adopting the voucher
program vindicates the institutional capacity building approach of the project.

(b) Quality of Supervision


                                             20
Rating: Satisfactory
81.     In spite of the challenging environment and a number of major and unforeseeable
events that disrupted the project as planned, with close implementation support, the project
managed to deliver major building blocks that will help the ministry in developing capacity
and transparency in its operations. A total of 11 formal implementation support missions
producing ISRs and aide memoires where undertaken, in addition to a number of visits
from the fiduciary team and informal visits as part of implementation support for other
projects. The Bank was proactive in accommodating the client to maximize the impact of
the project and provided close intensive supervision that led to positive overall results in a
difficult country with implementation of a challenging institutional project. Several
indicators were dropped late in implementation, in part due to the delayed restructuring
due to the difficulties in resolving the financial information needed for the reallocation.
These indicators were not crucial to measure PDO achievement, and were obsolete because
most of these activities had been picked up by other donors.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
82.     The Bank designed a fairly ambitious institutional project that would help the
ministry to assume its mandate and credibility in the sector. The Bank provided significant
implementation support to ensure this project would deliver. The Bank remained flexible
and pragmatic, but ensured the delivery of the essential pieces that would make the project
a success and from which subsequent operations could build further capacity. The Bank
was responsive and helped address the ministry’s immediate needs after the earthquake.
For the farm support program, the Bank was effective in increasing its reach by reallocating
funding to address demand while simultaneously testing the new institutional systems. The
project was also well synchronized with the follow-on project.

5.2 Recipient Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
83.      The project launched during a difficult time in Haiti that was aggravated by a series
of natural disasters. Nonetheless, the government maintained the institutional capacity
objective of the project by seizing the activities to rebuild its capacities. This process was
not always easy because many of the new systems introduced under the project required
significant changes from the way things used to be done, such as in procurement and IT-
based FM. Occasionally, the lack of personnel for establishing these new processes and
systems created obstructions that were difficult to overcome and government showed little
interest in directly intervening. As a consequence, the adoption of the SYSCOP for
instance and the functioning of the procurement unit with adequate staffing, were severely
delayed, negatively affecting project implementation. To date, the accounting software
that is expected to handle all the investment programs of the ministry remains underused.
Systematic use of the software for projects will greatly help with production of the annual
report and regular financial statements, all of which would provide credence to the
ministry’s administrative capacity. Top management at the MARNDR will need to enforce
the effective use of the systems and procedures developed under the project to optimize
potential benefits.


                                             21
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
84.      The Ministry of Agriculture was the Implementing Agency and most of the
activities were implemented under its department for policy and programming (UEP). The
UEP gained significant capacity in personnel in the M&E unit, the Environmental Unit, a
gender specialist as well as well as the IT system. The IT system now allows the ministry
to store information in a central location, but has also improved its ability to link with
research facilities and departmental offices. The Project Coordinator often invested heroic
efforts in getting things done and pushing for changes against considerable institutional
“headwinds”. Overall, the efforts and commitment by the UEP and parties involved with
implementation was good.

 (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Recipient Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
85.     The project faced many challenges and at times, the response times to Bank inputs
on fiduciary aspects in particular were very long. Yet, the ministry was engaged and did its
best to rectify any errors. Given the difficult circumstances the country was confronted
with, and considerable implementation challenges, some of which were beyond its own
doing, government overall showed goodwill and provided necessary support when needed.


6. Lessons Learned

86.     Institutional capacity building in a challenging environment. A primary lesson
from this project is that a relatively small institutional capacity building project, even in a
country fraught with crises and challenges can, if the government is truly on board, and
with intensive Bank supervision, result in significant improvements in the way a ministry
performs its mandate. It is noted that these transformations might not be permanent gains
unless continued follow up is maintained. The project envisaged a long-term engagement
and it successfully laid the groundwork, but continuous support will be needed.

87.      Implementation without a PIU in a situation of weak institutional capacity. When
a project is implemented directly within the ministry without a PIU, the project design and
implementation arrangements must be simple and well defined at preparation and design
stage. Implementation speed must be expected to be slower than with a PIU. Moreover,
institutional projects are time consuming, but have potential for high rewards. Such
projects, even when involving modest lending amounts, require significant implementation
support with many staff weeks and adequate supervision budgets.

88.      Client ownership of results framework. Results frameworks need to be simple and
the linkages between the activities and the indicators need to be readily understood by the
client in order to have adequate ownership and buy in to collect the necessary data to assess
the outcomes.

89.    Needs for continued institutional change and reform. Policy dialogue at the
ministerial level, ownership of technical staff and active involvement of a broad range of

                                              22
stakeholders are important for institutional change and subsidy reform. In particular the
ministry will have to maintain its effort in prioritization and further increase its efficiency
of its spending.

90.       Lessons learned on the pilot voucher system:

      •   Pilot with small scale initiative before scaling up. The voucher mechanism
          introduced a major re-thinking of how farmers receive subsidies. Before jumping
          into the full scale project, the ministry tested a small-scale innovative methodology.
          This type of small scale approach is also critical to show results and generate broad
          support from policy makers, donors and beneficiaries. The scaling up is now being
          launched, and efforts to keep key stakeholders informed about the project will need
          to be maintained to show the benefit of the reform (and decrease the chances of a
          policy reversal).
      •   Anticipate agricultural cycles to decrease administrative bottlenecks and increase
          the impact.
      •   Remember that the national supply of inputs remains unpredictable, of uneven
          quality and often poorly timed with the agricultural seasons, leading to shortages at
          the local village level. If delivery cannot be completed in a timely fashion, not only
          does productivity suffer, but the trust in the mechanism developed under the project
          might be undermined over time.
      •   Take into consideration the entire value chains of the supported products, ensure
          linkages of producers to markets, improve post-harvest handling and take
          opportunities for value-adding.
      •   Avoid monoculture and promote diversification to avoid price decrease and
          increase food and nutrition security.
      •   Use digital communication to simplify and make more efficient some of the
          transaction costs and steps from the disbursing bank to the final beneficiary.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Recipient/Implementing Agencies/Partners
91.      The draft ICR was provided to the Recipient for comments and subsequently
discussed directly with key counterparts during a Bank mission. However, the Recipient
did not send the Bank the requested letter. Comments received from IADB as a partner
institution working on agriculture in Haiti were included in Annex 8.




                                               23
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                               Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                                  Appraisal
                                                       millions)
Comp. 1Strengthening
MARNDR Managerial                        2.10               3.05                     145%
Functions
Comp. 2 Strengthening Farmer
                                         2.00               3.10                     155%
Extension and Support Services
Comp. 3 Project Coordination
                                         0.80                .70                     87.5%
Supervision
            Total Baseline Cost          4.90               6.85
Physical Contingencies
                                              0.10
Price Contingencies
            Total Project Costs               5.00                 6.85
     Total Financing Required                 5.00                 6.85

Note: Financing of operators (NGOs) under component 2 came from RESEPAG2, without these contracts,
the amount under component 2 amounts to US$ 1.6 million and total project costs amount to US$5.3
million.



(b) Financing
                                                        Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                          Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                        Cofinancing       (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                         millions)    millions)
Recipient                                             0.0          0.0          0.0
IDA Grant                                             5.0          5.3          0.0




                                                24
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component

 Component 1 Strengthening MARNDR’s Managerial Functions

 1.     Under Sub component 1a: sector policies and coordination, the following
 contracts with international and national consultants were supported.

 Agro-Economist supporting policy and M&E          INDV   USD                22,119.81   07-Nov-2013
 Agricultural technician                           INDV   USD                 6,912.44   07-Nov-2013
 Market Supply, Installation, Implementation of
 the computer system of the Ministry of
 Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural
 Development and training of staff.                ICB    USD             1,924,079.00   03-Sep-2012
 Computerized Accounting System                    CQS    USD               116,501.18   13-Mar-2012
 Development Services, and M&E capacity
 building                                          INDV   USD               138,000.00   31-Dec-2011
 Support for Statistical Services                  INDV   USD                40,000.00   27-Feb-2012
 Support for Statistical Services                  INDV   USD                43,750.00   27-Feb-2012
 Acquisition of two all-terrain vehicles - Lot 2   ICB    USD                46,000.00   28-Jan-2011
 Supply, installation, implementation of the
 Ministry of Agriculture computer system,
 Natural Resources and Rural Development
 (MARNDR)                                          SSS    USD               721,529.63   15-Apr-2014
 TOTAL COMPONENT 1                                                        3,058,892.06

2.     The following tasks were delivered:
      Equipping the MARNDR with essential tools, including an M&E system for better
       monitoring of results indicators focusing on the results framework of the
       agricultural sector policy. A key element was the establishment of the M&E system
       for programs and projects at the operational level, and the establishment of M&E
       as part of the agricultural sector institutional system. The M&E consultant, in
       addition to the design of a manual of procedures for monitoring and evaluation,
       also developed the capacity and competencies of five university graduates selected
       by the MARNDR to renew and strengthen the capacity for programming in the
       UEP. These five young engineers have been funded by the RESEPAG projects
       since their entry in service to the UEP. The expectation is that these individual will
       be converted to civil servants over time.
      The project also supported an analysis of the alignment of the Department's
       spending on its sectoral policy. For this purpose, a further contract extension was
       granted to the M&E Consultant to help distill data from the systems to update
       indicators on all investments made from public resources in the sector. All of this
       work will help the Ministry of Agriculture to ensure oversight and establish proper
       monitoring and evaluation of programs and projects implemented by its various
       entities and partners.



                                                   25
      The project supported the establishment of the environmental unit within the
       MARNDR to address issues relating to the integration of the environmental
       dimension in the projects of the ministry. In connection with the unit, the project
       produced two important documents entitled environmental management
       framework and backup (SEMC) and an Integrated Pest and Pesticide Management
       Plan (PGPP) for extension officers in the field with training to provide the desired
       integration and environmental safeguard. At present, this unit is moderately
       functional because it has a fairly small staff (3 persons) housed within the
       programming study unit (UEP), but it serves as a basis for further development as
       resources become available. The activities and functioning of the unit remain
       closely related to those of the RESEPAG project. Gradually, they will be involved
       in the review of MARNDR’s projects and programs.

      The project strengthened gender awareness within the MARNDR operations,
       including promoting an increasingly gender balanced staffing. The project received
       the financial support of the Gender Action Plan "to carry out a diagnosis of the
       constraints faced by women in the project”. This support enabled greater awareness
       by the MARNDR of the importance of this theme, which facilitated the integration
       of gender aspects in the formulation and implementation of projects of the
       MARNDR. This effort was coordinated with the Ministry of Women’s Status and
       Rights in the RESEPAG project team to develop a job profile for the recruitment
       of the gender specialist. The MARNDR continues to ensure the integration of this
       strategic theme in its programming and development of new investment projects.

3.       All of the above capacities will help the Ministry of Agriculture to ensure leadership
         on the function of monitoring and evaluation of programs and projects implemented
         by its various entities and partners.
4.       Other significant events were also organized with the support of the project:
     •   a forum bringing together over 150 people on agriculture and the environment to
         discuss agriculture policy and issues that currently affect the development of the
         sector.
     •   A symposia to discuss the outputs of the sectoral policy documents (eg. the PDVA,
         NIPA) involving the departmental directorates and some technical directorates by
         facilitating their participation in the various events to help with the drafting of the
         above-mentioned documents. As an example, the Symposium on the establishment
         of a definition of an Agricultural Extension Master Plan (PDVA) and its validation
         for greater ownership by various stakeholders.

5.     This kind of workshop is a considerable contribution to improving the
competitiveness and efficiency of the MARNDR staff who participated. However, this
was also a forum where small producers and organizations of rural producers (OPR)
reported on the challenges they faced with post-harvest storage and logistics and the need
for development of agribusiness. There is a need for the development of value chains to
increase the economic benefits and make small farmers more competitive in the market.



                                               26
6.   Under component 1 (b): enhancing administrative, HR and fiduciary
management.
    The design, installation and commissioning of custom accounting software called
     (SYSCOP) to improve the department's fiduciary management has been slow.
     However, the software is operational and accounting transaction entry is being
     carried out for two projects, namely the RESEPAG2 (WB) and the PTTA (IADB).
     Additional modules need to be developed to optimize the software. This
     amendment to the contract would include a module for managing the budget in the
     software, developing ledgers tracking accounts by component, as well as a
     breakdown of the costs. To date, a number of statements of account and financial
     reports have been set up in the software that are providing better financial oversight
     of projects.

    The software provider conducted training sessions for the benefit of the IT
     managers and the FM staff of RESEPAG 2 and PTTA. Two training programs
     were conducted with twelve (12) sessions. The objective was to enable participants
     to become familiar with the system and be able to use it effectively to perform all
     accounting charges in relation to their function within the MARNDR. With the
     establishment of the information technology unit (including the tender relaunched
     in January 2015), the MARNDR is planning the expansion of the system to other
     FM functions.

    Technical support was provided for MARNDR Procurement Services. An
     International Procurement Expert was contracted to strengthen the procurement
     capacity of the ministry. The consultant was entrusted with the formation of six
     young staff who had been integrated in the public procurement unit. The consultant
     produced deliverables including a proposed design for the institutional structure,
     and step-by-step approach for the establishment of such a unit within the framework
     of existing legislation in the MARNDR. The design and steps are reflected in the
     final report provided to the client. Based on the work carried out by the consultant,
     the procurement unit was subsequently established. The unit is currently supported
     by resources from IADB.

    The project supported the installation and implementation of the system of
     information and communication for the MARNDR. The work was finalized and the
     installation of the equipment and materials including the networking cables in
     government buildings is complete. To date, the five buildings of the ministry are
     fully equipped (computers, printers, scanner, telephones, software, wireless, fiber
     optics, internet access networks). Sixteen (16) remote locations (DDAs, faculties
     of Agriculture {EMA} and Research Centres) also were equipped with hardware
     and (solar) power supply. In addition, 160 civil servants were trained in October
     2013 (over a period of nine days) in the use of the new computer system. The
     MARNDR has achieved modernization and efficiency of its operating capacity.
     Information communications technology (ICT) plays a key role in the efficient
     sharing of documents and information management for a decentralized department



                                            27
    The computerization of management incentives (SIGI) system was not fully
     financed by RESEPAG. However, RESEPAG supported the implementation of
     incentives to farmers from vouchers. There was a pioneering the effort to collect
     data to establish the registers of producers and suppliers. This process allowed for
     system testing and learning important lessons for design optimization and
     eventually digitization of the process under SIGI.

    The project supported the ongoing implementation of a computer system and the
     establishment of an IT unit at the MARNDR. The Directorate General of
     MARNDR adopted all the provisions for the implementation of the unit and has
     also temporarily designated staff who would be assigned to the unit (i.e. 1
     Coordinator and 5 members) and 3 other managers that would support to the unit
     for the maintenance of the department's computer site). Taking into account the
     highly technological nature of such an entity, the department with funding of the
     IDB and the World Bank (in RESEPAG2) will proceed with the recruitment of
     international technical assistance (TA) to strengthen the capacity of the IT unit.

    The establishment of the ministry’s website @agriculture.gouv.ht was supported
     by RESEPAG. The aim of this investment was to strengthen the leadership of the
     department in the agricultural sector by funding the creation of the website (or even
     the creation of the extension @agriculture.gouv.ht on gmail). The objective was to
     focus on the institutional identity of the department in terms of trade and
     communication and to facilitate the search for information by clients outside of the
     ministry. Currently, approximately 300 employees have a business address on this
     domain. The transition from the personal e-mail addresses to those of the
     MARNDR has been advancing gradually.

Component 2: Strengthening Farmer Extension and Support Services

7.    The following contracts supported the voucher program in addition to financing the
vouchers themselves.

Junior Eng. Agronomist, RNE                    INDV    USD                11,059.91   07-Nov-2013
Technician to work with plants                 INDV    USD                16,313.36   07-Nov-2013
Agricultural technician                         INDV   USD                 8,294.93   07-Nov-2013
Environmental specialist and provide support in
the management of incentives                    INDV   USD                20,737.32   07-Nov-2013
Administrative assistant                       INDV    USD                15,870.96   07-Nov-2013
Regional Coordinator                           SSS     USD                28,469.75   19-Nov-2012
Technician to work with plants                 INDV    USD                16,313.36   07-Nov-2013
Total grants for vouchers disbursed                                    1,500,000.00
Improved Management of the Local Agricultural
Services                                        QCBS                     841,601.23      13-Dec-12
Recruitment of Incentives Operator for the Levy
Zone                                            QCBS                     710,848.20          4-Jul-12


                                               28
TOTAL COMPONENT 2
                                                                            3,169,509.02
NB: Both QCBS contracts were financed from RESEPAG2 due to cost overruns under component 1 and
the higher than anticipated expenditures related to operators.

8.      In preparation for the voucher program, a register of farmers was established and a
number of logistical steps were completed by a team of specialists supporting component
2. Simultaneously, technical packages including inputs, advisory help and financing were
developed for delivery in the pilot project areas. The voucher program entailed the support
for four campaigns in the region of Les Cayes including two campaigns of bean and two
campaigns for corn, ranging from October 2012 to June 2014, benefitting some 3,055
farmers (37% women). The bean campaign involved a package, provided though vouchers
including services for tilling of soil, chemical fertilizers, plant protection products, and
amounting to 12,000 gourdes per hectare. For corn, support was provided to farmers for
cultivation (plowing of the soil, seeds and chemical fertilizers), amounting to 12,500
gourdes per hectare. The provision of the vouchers included the services of operators
(NGOs) who provided technical and extension support to farmers as well as facilitated the
mobilization, contracting and logistics of farmers with input suppliers and the participating
Bank that printed and issued the vouchers.
9.       In the town of Thiotte, 1,510 coffee producers (36% women) obtained vouchers for
trimming of coffee bushes, fertilizer and technical advice as well as traps for insect pests
to support the production of organic coffee. These incentives have benefited 4,565
producers (38% women) through four campaigns in the South and a campaign in the
Southeast. In total, 7,328 incentives were distributed, representing 23,406 vouchers and a
total of approximately 57 million gourdes.
10.       Interventions yielded the following results:
      •   more than 6,400 farmers enrolled in the registry (3,400 in Les Cayes and about
          3,000 in the area of Thiotte)
      •   15 providers of inputs and plowing services entered in the register of the providers
          of Les Cayes
      •   16 inputs and service providers registered in the registry for the area of Thiotte
      •   the allocation of a certain level of purchasing power parities to farmers, thus
          facilitating access to means of production and stimulating the input market and
          agricultural services providers contributing to an increase in the turnover of local
          suppliers
      •   The intervention helped to consolidate the existence of some providers already well
          installed in areas, but also facilitated the emergence of new providers
      •   The regeneration of planting coffee in Thiotte over an area of 1,400 hectares
      •   the increase of more than 40% of the sown areas, notably corn, which had been in
          decline in the South of Haiti during recent years due to the low yield
      •   the increased performance of bean and corn for a good number of farmers--50-60%.

11.     Data collected on a sample of 40 plots of corn reveal that farmers receive in most
cases, 2.5 to 4.0 tons per hectare, surpassing the average yield of corn at 1.5 tonnes per


                                               29
hectare in the plain of Les Cayes. The incomes of farmers benefiting from the subsidy are
6,600 gourdes per hectare while they are negative for those who do not benefit.

Component 3: Project coordination and supervision

Project Technical Supervisor               INDV        USD               47,583.65   27-Nov-2011
Project Chief Accountant                   INDV        USD               12,544.53   15-May-2014
Technical Auditor                          INDV        USD                3,110.60   11-Apr-2014
Financial Management Specialist            INDV        USD               39,608.29   07-Nov-2013
Financial Management Specialist            INDV        USD               39,608.29   07-Nov-2013
Procurement assistant                      INDV        USD               16,589.86   07-Nov-2013
AUDIT SERVICES                             QBS         USD               42,422.81   10-Jul-2013
Internal Audit Services                    SSS         USD               18,248.84   07-Oct-2013
Procurement specialist                     INDV        USD               54,377.22   19-Nov-2012
International Procurement Specialist       INDV        USD              145,000.00   01-Mar-2012
Procurement Specialist                     INDV        USD               41,841.50   05-Dec-2011
Financial Management Specialist            INDV        USD               96,218.72   12-May-2011
Procurement Specialist                     INDV        USD                3,169.81   27-Oct-2009
Financial Management Specialist            INDV        USD                3,169.81   27-Oct-2009
Secretarial services                       INDV        USD               12,442.39   07-Nov-2013
Acquisition of four 4x4 vehicles - Lot 1   ICB         USD              138,920.00   28-Jan-2011
TOTAL COMPONENT 3                                                      714,856.32

12.     The MARNDR was responsible for the general coordination of interventions and
the financial management of the project. Activities included:
    (a) administrative and technical activities, including processing information from
        service providers and World Bank communications;
    (b) field activities to oversee the work of providers;
    (c) production and submission of reports to the World Bank on a quarterly basis;
    (d) sought the collaboration of technical directions and involved DDAs.

13.    Various training courses were provided for the project (financial management,
procurement markets, monitoring and evaluation, environmental assessment) and
contributed to the success of project implementation.




                                           30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


1.     This Annex summarizes a financial analysis to determine if investments supported
by the project are profitable and therefore sustainable at the farm level and an economic
analysis of project investments. Major quantifiable benefits from the project would derive
from component 1 (institutional strengthening) and 2 (agricultural voucher system).

2.      The methodology used for the financial and economic analysis at appraisal
consisted of a break-even analysis for the project as a whole and a separate economic
assessment for Component 1 (institutional strengthening) and Component 2 (voucher
system). The break-even analysis was based on the assumption that institutional
strengthening by the project would accelerate disbursements in the Public Investment
Program (PIP) of MARNDR and would have a positive impact on the rate of return of the
project. To analyze Component 1, it was assumed that project benefits would materialize
through an increase of overall agricultural GDP; for Component 2, a cost-benefit analysis
was carried based on the improved coffee production model.

3.       The analysis conducted at project completion does not attempt to reconstruct the
analysis at appraisal for the following reasons: (i) the link between the institutional
strengthening by the project and disbursements of the PIP is very uncertain and the
assumption that the project will accelerate the disbursement rate of the PIP seems to be
over optimistic; (ii) given the overall impact of the devastating earthquake on the country
as a whole as well as on the agricultural sector in particular, the comparison between the
agricultural GDP before and after project couldn’t show pertinent results. The analysis
conducted at project completion assessed the benefits (financial and economic) of
institutional strengthening and the voucher system using key M&E data collected by the
project and the mission’s findings to provide an estimation of the economic return of
technologies introduced by the project.

I.     Financial Analysis.

a) Agricultural production

4.      At appraisal, a financial analysis of improved agricultural production (supported by
Component 2) was conducted based on a model of coffee production as a proxy.
Assumptions were based on information from the work by the Institut de Capacitation,
Etudes et Formation (ICEF) on the regeneration of existing coffee plantations. The model
presents an incremental net benefit per hectare of 8,375 hectares due to improved coffee
production through regeneration of existing plantations would allow more than doubling
of a farmer’s net annual income per hectare, with an incremental net income per hectare of
HTG 8,375 (about USD 210).

5.     During implementation, RESEPAG supported five agricultural campaigns and
three agricultural crops: maize, beans and coffee. In the valley of Les Cayes, two bean
campaigns and two maize campaigns were conducted from October 2012 to June 2014, for

                                            31
the benefit of 3,055 farmers (37% women). In the commune of Thiotte, vouchers were
distributed to 1,510 coffee farmers (36% women) over one agricultural campaign (in 2014).
At the end of each agricultural season, the increase in production was observed for annual
crops such as corn and beans, related to: (i) increase in yield per hectare and (ii) increase
of the sown area (left fallow before the project). Tables 1 and 2 present the evolution of
agricultural productivity and the areas sown before, during and after these campaigns.

                                                                     Table 1
                                            Agricultural productivity (kg/ha)
                                                                      before project         with project (1)
                                       culture
                                                                           (1)       1st campagn 2nd campagn
                        maize                                             1,500           2,500          3,500
                        beans                                    400           800                              1,200
                        coffee                                   250           288
                        (1)Source: reports and interviews AVSI and BECSFAR, 2013-2014


                                                                     Table 2
                                                       Estimation of the cultivated surfaces (hectares)
                                    Before
                                                       With project                                Projection after the end of the project period
                                    project
                                  Traditional Campaign Campaign Campaign
                                                                                        2015         2016        2017        2018         2019      2020
                                  cultivation   2012      2013      2014
Beans traditional cultivation         350       350        350       350                 350          350         350         350          350      350
Beans technical package year 1                  358        358       358                 322          290         261         235          211      190
Beans technical package year 2                             457       457                 411          370         333         300          270      243
TOTAL                                           708       1,165     1,165               1,083        1,010        944         885          831      783

Maize traditional cultivation        350         350           350          350          350         350          350         350          350      350
Maize technical package year 1                                 700          700          630         567          510         459          413      372
Maize technical package year 2                                               95           86          77           69          63           56       51
TOTAL                                                         1,050        1,145        1,066        994          930         872          820      773

Coffee traditional cultivation      1,440        1,440        1,440                     1,440        1,440       1,440       1,440        1,440     1,440
Coffee technical package year 1                                            1,440


Source: M&E system of RESEPAG 1


6.      Crop budgets constructed using data collected in the field by regional operators
(presented in Tables 3 and 4) show that cultivation for the three crops supported by the
project is financially profitable for the project participants because the application of the
technical package and the training received by farmers translated into increased agricultural
production. It is still too early to assess the benefits of the project interventions on the
plantations of a perennial crop such as coffee. However, a future earnings projection was
made based on the experience of the operator BECSFAR in the same area. For coffee
production, the situation at project completion appeared rather different than the study
conducted by the ICEF, an institution specialized in the coffee sector of Haiti, at appraisal
given the fact that coffee is usually part of a mixed plantation known as a “creole garden”
and it includes other varieties such as banana, citrus and igname. Therefore, support
provided to coffee plants (in terms of improved fertilization, irrigation and land cultivation)
benefits the other varieties in the garden and increases the productivity and financial
benefits of the plantation. It should to be noted that marketing and post-harvest treatment
remain major bottlenecks that prevent maximization of the benefits from the agricultural

                                                                        32
support activities (especially for maize and beans). In the absence of post-harvest facilities,
it is difficult for farmers to cope with seasonal price fluctuations. This issue will have to be
addressed for eventual scaling up of the activity. Table 3 presents a summary of the
financial benefits to farmers participating in the voucher system pilot promoted by the
project.

                                                     Table 3
                 Summary of financial benefits from agricultural production (Gourdes)

                     culture               before project (1)    with project (1)         incremental

                   maize                          200                 21,500                  21,300
                   beans                         3,500                16,475                  12,975
          coffee/ "creole garden"               57,586                132,614                 75,028
         Source: reports AVSI and BECSFAR, M&E system of the RESEPAG1


b. Service providers

7.      The voucher-based subsidy program has strengthened the demand for inputs and
services and therefore has increased the sales (and profits) of private service providers.
According to information obtained from the operators (AVSI and BECSFORT), there were
315 service providers in the Cailles and 16 providers in the Thiotte area. The value of
technical packages was 12,500 Gourdes in the Cailles area and 21,730 Gourdes in the
Thiotte area, which represents nearly 38.2 million Gourdes in sales for services providers
in the Cailles area and about 32.8 million Gourdes in sales in the Thiotte area. Given the
number of suppliers registered in both areas, this represents average sales of 212.230 billion
Gourdes for the four agricultural seasons in the Cailles region and 2,050,769 Gourdes in
Thiotte. Table 4 summarizes the calculations and assumptions.

                                                     Table 4
                               Summary of financial benefits to service providers (Gourdes)

                                               Number of        Value of one
         Zone of       Number of service                                                              Average sales per
                                           technical packages technical package    Total sales (G)
      intervention        providers                                                                  service provider (G)
                                             sold to farmers         (G)
   LES CAILLES               315                  3,055            12,500            38,187,500            121,230
     THIOTTE                  16                  1,510            21,730            32,812,300           2,050,769
Source: Final report by RESEPAG1 (draft version)


II.        Economic analysis.

8.      The rationale behind project design was that with institutional strengthening of the
MARNDR’s managerial capability (Component 1), the linkages between the government’s
sectoral policies and the investment projects implemented on the ground would improve.
It was also expected that strengthening of the delivery of farm support services (Component
2) and increased availability of extension services and financial support (incentives) would


                                                         33
enable farm investment and adoption of technological innovations by farmers, therefore
enhancing agriculture production and rural incomes.

Component 1
a) Computer hardware and communication network

9.       Electronic administrative communication was nearly non-existent before the
project. Correspondence was mainly paper-based, internet access was scarce and few
computers were available. Before the internet network was installed and made available to
all staff in the MARNDR by RESEPAG, ministry staff described the situation as follows:
"Access to the internet was a luxury and its use was reserved for few staff only." Important
correspondence and documents requiring fast response or comments were often late or
even lost, which affected the decision-making process and hampered the smooth running
of different services of the MARNDR. The common practice was each departmental office
(DDA) had a "pigeon box" for mail and official communication and they would have to go
to Port-au-Prince to "physically" collect mail, a long, difficult and expensive journey.

10.      The project has achieved the following: (i) workstations were installed in the central
office of the ministry, in 10 DDAs, in the Organization for the Development of Artibonite
Valley (ODVA) administration in Thiotte, in 2 research centers of Levy and Baptist and in
2 middle schools (EMAVA [Artibonite] and EMDH [Hinche]); (ii) hardware and
equipment were provided at the central and regional level; (iii) ministry staff were trained
in the use of new IT tools (Central Office, 10 DDAs, EMAVA, EMDH, Levy, Baptist and
ODVA Thiotte); (iv) general computer system training was conducted at the Central Office
(30 hours over 5 days for 124 MARNDR officials); (v) 298 executives and employees were
connected to the domain <www.agriculture.gouv.ht> and have obtained a professional
email address .gouv.ht; and (vi) cloud computing and SysCoP software are available for
cloud storage of data and documents. The sub-component’s main activities were completed
in the last two years so most of the benefits are still forthcoming.

11.    The sub-component’s quantifiable benefits include:

•       reduction of the ministry transaction costs due to the installation of the internet with
a unique contract subscription with the provider. There were economies of scale due to the
centralization of the procurement of the IT and communication services (internet
subscription, maintenance). Table 5 presents the costs of the internet (emergency “Iglou”
system provided after the earthquake). The cost of the temporary system (“Iglou”), if
extended for the entire ministry represents about de 91,000 USD per year.
                                               Table 5
                                         COST OF THE "IGLOU" / BEFORE
                                                PROJECT(USD)
                                    IGLOU /PERS/MOIS              26
                                    IGLOU/300PERS/MOIS           7,650
                                    IGLOU/300PERS/AN            91,800


•      number of trips (to and from the regions) that are reduced for DDAs thanks to the
wider use of email communication and teleconferencing facilities (cameras, speakers and


                                                34
microphones installed by the project). The travel cost reductions would represent about
5,400,000 Gourdes per 10 DDAs, annually (see Table 6).
                                              Table 6
                                         AVERAGE TRAVEL EXPENDITURES FOR ONE DDA

                                                         average trip
                                                                        daily allowance
                                                         (number of                       total (G)
                                                                               (G)
                                                            days)
                          2 staff MARNDR                      2              4,500         9,000
                          1 driver                            2              3,000         6,000
                          fuel                                                             7,500
                          TOTAL                                                            22,500

                            ECONOMIES IN TERMS OF TRAVEL EXPENDITURES REDUCED FOR ALL
                                                      DDAs
                             Number of trips per DDA and per            before project        3
                                         month                          with project          1

                                                                        before project    8,100,000
                             Annual travel cost for 10 DDAs (G)
                                                                        with project      2,700,000

                           Economies / travel costs reduced (G)                           5,400,000
                          Source: Project Coordination Unit


12.    In addition to the quantifiable benefits, the sub-component interventions are
expected to yield some benefits related to the project activities that are difficult to quantify
in monetary terms, however, they certainly amount to substantial socio-economic values:

•      cloud computing and relocation and storage of documents and data on the "cloud".
Creation of a solid base for institutional memory and loss of documents and information
avoided;

•      positive impact in terms of image, communication and corporate identity of the
MARNDR, with the creation of a domain <www.agriculture.gouv.ht> and professional
emails (.gouv.ht);

•   change in the approach to IT and its management. The important trend is that the
MARDNR is moving from crisis management to long-term management and organization.

b) Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)

13.    Work carried out through this activity supported creation of a link between the
M&E system and broader programming. It should be noted that the benefits in terms of the
M&E system of MARNDR cannot not be solely attributed to the project because the
consultant was mainly focused on the procedures manual. The benefit stream of the sub-
component comprises includes:

•      a sector policy framework has been developed for the fiscal year 2015/16 based on
the analysis of results achieved and summarized in the public balance sheet. Until now,
there was no systematic annual sector framework for the preparation of the budget. Projects
were renewed year after year without a strategic reflection on the advantage of providing
funding for a project rather than another. The framework will be an asset for better targeting

                                                              35
of the government’s investments in the context of national budget preparation and
approval.

•       a gradual increase of the financial envelope provided by the state to the agricultural
sector with an improvement in the quality of the argument of the budget presented at the
House of Deputies. In this context, for the fiscal year 2014/15, the minister obtained a
promise of a Public Treasury budget increase. His argument was built on the basis of data
from the public balance sheet 2012/13. It should be noted that agriculture has been a
priority sector, despite relatively small state participation (8-10% of the investment budget
of the country).

Component 2.

    a) Improvement of local support services to agriculture and Farm Input Subsidy
        Program
14.     The Farm Input Subsidy Program, together with agricultural extension and training,
generated some positive overall economic results in terms of crop performance as well as
higher sown area (for maize and beans). The subsidy encouraged adoption and diffusion of
new technology/technical package by reducing the initial risks and costs associated with
learning a new technique. The technical package introduced by the project has been
beneficial not only in terms of agricultural production, but also from an environmental
prospective, given better regulation of use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides. Positive
environmental externalities associated with increasing soil fertility and soil conservation
would be difficult to quantify, however, they can be subject to a longer-term assessment.

15.    Even after the earthquake of 2010 and the major malfunction of food markets that
followed, the farm input subsidy contributed to ensure food security of rural households
dependent on agriculture for their livelihood. During 2012/14, the additional production
was 1,173 t for beans, 3,389 t for maize and 108 t for coffee, benefitting about 4,565
farmers within the project area (Table 7 summarizes the results of calculations and the
additional agricultural production).




                                             36
                                                                Table 7
                      Summary of the additional agricultural production (kg)
                                                               Cultivation Campagne Campagne Campagne
                                                               traditionne   2012     2013     2014

           Beans (kg)                                            140,000   280,000     420,000     378,000
                                                                           286,480     429,720     386,748
                                                                                       365,272     547,908
           Total (kg)                                            140,000   566,480   1,214,992   1,312,656
           Additional production(t)                                            426       1,075       1,173

           Maize (kg)                                            525,000   525,000     875,000   1,225,000
                                                                                     1,750,350   2,450,490
                                                                                                   238,175
           Total (kg)                                            525,000   525,000   2,625,350   3,913,665
           Additional production(t)                                                      2,100       3,389

           Coffee (kg)                                           720,000   720,000    720,000     828,000
           Additional production(t)                                                                   108

           (1)Pour le café les projections ont été utilisées




16.      However, despite the production surpluses forecast, prices haven’t been stable in
the project area. Overall, the project area has not taken full advantage of this new food
security situation to maximize trade (inter-regional exports). Indeed, future project
activities focused on the improvement of the input market should be systematically
accompanied by activities focused on construction an agricultural produce market and
integration of farmers in this market. This issue suggests the need to improve the quality
of production estimates, as well as implementation of additional policies on prices and
post-harvest infrastructure.

17.    Economic crop models. To conduct an economic analysis of crop production
supported by the system of incentives, financial models have been recalculated using their
economic values. The final report of RESEPAG indicates that nearly 57 million Gourdes
(about US$ 1.3 million) have been spent on the implementation of the subsidy program.
Given the data collected on the increase of agricultural production, the volume of the
additional agricultural production would represent nearly 5,489 tons of corn, 2,674 tons of
beans and nearly 108 tons of coffee, with the total value of incremental production of about
US$ 3.4 million, or US$ 2.56 of additional food production generated for each USD 1 of
subsidy. Table 8 summarizes the calculations.




                                                                   37
                                              Table 8
                                         Investment /Subsidy
                                       57,000,000          Gourdes (1)
                                        1,311,551             USD

                                   Aditional production volume (t)
                                         maize               5,489
                                         beans               2,674
                                         coffee               108
                                   Aditional production value (USD)
                                         maize             1,263,004
                                         beans             1,845,924
                                         coffee             245,304
                                         TOTAL             3,354,231

                                 Value of the additional
                                 agricultural production
                                                              2.56
                                   generated by 1$ of
                                         subsidy



18.     Impact on agricultural service providers. An estimation of the financial benefit
to service providers is presented in the financial analysis. From the economic point of view,
in order to demonstrate that the economic benefits to the society generated by agricultural
input subsidies exceed the costs of these subsidies, it is necessary to assess the impact of
the subsidy program on the input market. In the context of RESEPAG, it can be noted that
the incentives to farmers had the advantage of stimulating the development of the
agricultural input market. The project did not collect data on the impact of the incentives
system on service providers. However, the two focal points (AVSI and BECSFAR)
confirmed that several new enterprises have been created (especially among laborers in the
Cailles region and among the input suppliers in Thiotte) during the project. Overall,
qualitative information and interviews collected by the focal points at the end of the project
demonstrate that agricultural service providers were able to increase their revenue and
benefitted from a stable market.

19.      Advantage of the new subsidy system compared to the traditional system
(supply subsidy). A traditional large-scale (so called universal) agricultural fertilizer
subsidy established by the MARNDR was a common and major feature of agricultural
development policies. The subsidy contributed to providing inputs at low prices to some
farmers, however the fertilizer subsidies system has been particularly expensive, mainly
due to growing demands on the government budget as it stimulated increased fertilizer
consumption (and hence increased volumes of fertilizer subsidy). There was also political
pressure to increase the subsidy rate or at the least to not contract it in the face of rising
fertilizer prices. Given the lack of information at this stage, it would be difficult to conduct
a quantitative analysis. However, international experience shows that this system can lead
to (i) the weakening of private sector performance, which no longer acts on competitive
logic and (ii) the strengthening of the state’s involvement, both operationally and
financially, to compensate for the shortcomings of the private sector. Ultimately, this
situation would lead to the complete crowding out of the private sector by a state monopoly
without adequate funding or sufficient expertise in this area.

                                                    38
20.     The Haitian Government has embarked on a path of strengthening the
competitiveness of the private agricultural sector policy through increased farm
productivity, and adoption of modernized and market-oriented farming practices.
Profitability of these new practices is underpinned by a competitive inputs sector, able to
provide farmers with quality inputs in sufficient quantity and at the best price. One of the
main economic benefits of a voucher-based entitlement system compared to the universal
one would be in terms of economies of financial resources.

21.     Farmers (interviewed by the focal points) found that the subsidy program has
allowed them to overcome the imperfection of credit and insurance markets. And more
specifically, the voucher-based system was evaluated by operators as a system with an
"interesting philosophy, an innovative approach that provides incentives to beneficiaries
and eliminates the middlemen and therefore the political aspect and nepotism."

Economic analysis of Components 1 and 2 and entire project

22.     Cost Stream. In order to estimate the project's economic viability, in the form of
the Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR), the cash flow calculated includes the actual
project costs (provided by the World Bank project team). The costs include all investments
for all project components as well as their recurrent costs (mainly operation and
maintenance for transportation, equipment and materials). Benefit Stream. The analysis
attempted to identify quantifiable benefits related to the activities undertaken following the
implementation of the components of the project. Costs and benefits stream is presented in
Tables 9 and 10.

23.      Component 1. At appraisal, the analysis of the Component 1 assumed that
institutional strengthening by the project would accelerate the disbursements in the Public
Investment Program (PIP) of MARNDR by 11% and hence would have generated the rate
of return of 16% for the component 1. At project completion, it has been concluded that
the assumption made at appraisal was excessively optimistic as to the influence of the
project investments on the PIP disbursement. Furthermore, the impact of the earthquake on
the projects under the PIP would not support the hypothesis made at appraisal that all these
projects would have an EIRR of at least 12%. Quantitative data collected by the project on
the benefits related to the travel costs reduction doesn’t allow generation of the EIRR for
the component because the main benefits of the institutional strengthening (mentioned
above) would be extremely difficult to quantify in monetary terms. The cash flow of
Component 1 is presented in the Table 9.

                                               Table 9
   Component 1
                                       2010          2011          2012          2013          2014     2015-20
          Costs                   13,038,000    13,038,000   26,076,000    39,114,000     39,114,000
          Benefits                                                                         5,400,000   5,400,000
          Cash flow              -13,038,000   -13,038,000   -26,076,000   -39,114,000   -33,714,000   5,400,000
   EIRR       #DIV/0!




                                                  39
24.    Component 2. At appraisal, the overall cost-benefit analysis of Component 2 was
conducted on the basis of benefits estimates from the regeneration of coffee plantations,
thus considering that other activities to be supported by the project would provide
equivalent incremental returns per hectare. Based on this assumption, the internal
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was estimated at 57% or 48% with benefits reduced by
20%; 35% with a two-year lag in benefits and 31% with both a two-year lag and reduction
in benefits by 20%.

25.      At completion, the cost-benefit analysis was conducted based on crop models
constructed with project M&E data and information collected during the field mission
(assumptions and calculations are presented in the “financial analysis “ section). Then,
calculations were made using the economic values (calculations are available in the project
files). It has to be noted that project activities experienced some delays and therefore
agricultural campaigns were conducted beginning in 2012. This corresponds to the 2-years
lag of the sensitivity analysis with 35% EIRR made at appraisal. The economic analysis of
Component 2 conducted at completion presents comparable results with a 33% EIRR over
11 years. Table 10 below shows the calculations.

                                                        Table 10
 Component 2
                          2010        2011       2012        2013        2014       2015        2016        2017       2018        2019        2020
      Costs           13,907,200 13,907,200 27,814,400 41,721,600 41,721,600
      Benefits                                -1,389,543 2,532,640 8,894,690 47,320,185 151,638,660 144,244,588 71,199,241 36,732,931 9,067,880
      Cash flow      -13,907,200 -13,907,200 -29,203,943 -39,188,960 -32,826,910 47,320,185 151,638,660 144,244,588 71,199,241 36,732,931 9,067,880
 EIRR          33%



26.     Project Estimated Return. At appraisal, it was assumed that project benefits
would materialize through an increase of agricultural GDP. Under this assumption, an
EIRR of 16% has been obtained. At completion, given the overall impact of the earthquake
on the country as well as on the agricultural sector in particular, the comparison between
the agricultural GDP before and after project couldn’t show pertinent results and therefore
a different analytical approach has been used. It has to be noted that the EIRR includes the
costs of all investments for the two components as well as their recurrent costs. On the
benefits side, it includes the benefits quantified previously. The Economic Internal Rate of
Return (EIRR) of the project as a whole at completion is estimated at 16%, which is
comparable to the results assumed at appraisal. Adding the unquantifiable benefits
discussed above would certainly raise the ERR substantially. The summary of the
economic analysis is presented in Table 11.




                                                               40
                                                               Table 11
                                                           Calculation of the EIRR of the project

                                                           Project year

                                   2010        2011         2012          2013       2014           2015   2016       2017       2018        2019       2020

Project Costs (USD)

            Component 1          300,000 300,000 600,000 900,000 900,000
            Component 2          320,000 320,000 640,000 960,000 960,000
            Component 3          700,000 700,000 1,400,000 2,100,000 2,100,000
            Total              1,320,000 1,320,000 2,640,000 3,960,000 3,960,000

Project Costs (Gourdes)

            Component 1       13,038,000 13,038,000 26,076,000 39,114,000 39,114,000
            Component 2       13,907,200 13,907,200 27,814,400 41,721,600 41,721,600
            Total             26,945,200 26,945,200 53,890,400 80,835,600 80,835,600


Project benefits (tangible)
          Component 1                                                        5,400,000 5,400,000 5,400,000 5,400,000 5,400,000 5,400,000 5,400,000
          Component 2                                 - 1,389,543 2,532,640 8,894,690 47,320,185 151,638,660 144,244,588 71,199,241 36,732,931 9,067,880
          Total                                       - 1,389,543 2,532,640 14,294,690 52,720,185 157,038,660 149,644,588 76,599,241 42,132,931 14,467,880

Cash flow                     -26,945,200 -26,945,200 -55,279,943 -78,302,960 -66,540,910 52,720,185 157,038,660 149,644,588 76,599,241 42,132,931 14,467,880
EIRR            16%




                                                                      41
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
           Names                             Title             Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Solange A. Alliali          Lead Operations Officer            AFCRI
Diego Arias Carballo        Senior Agriculture Economist      GFADR Team Lead
Christelle Bernardin        E T Temporary                      LCC8C
                                                              LCSDU -
Ross Alexander Gartley      Disaster Risk Management Speci
                                                                HIS
Natalia Gomez               Senior Rural Development Speci    GFADR
Dianelva Montas             Executive Assistant               CASDR
                                                              LCSSO -
Rachel Hannah Nadelman      E T Consultant
                                                                HIS
Fily Sissoko                Practice Manager                  GGODR
                                                              LCSAR -
Klaas Geert Van Vliet       Consultant
                                                                HIS
                                                              LCSPT -
Yao Wottor                  Senior Procurement Specialist
                                                                HIS
Supervision/ICR
Pierre Olivier Colleye      Sr Microfinance Speciliast        GFADR Team Lead
Christelle Bernardin        E T Temporary                      LCC8C
Daniel Gerber               Rural Development Specialist      GFADR ICR Main Author
Eli Weiss                   Sr Rural Development Specialist   GFADR ICR Team Lead
                                                              LCSDU -
Ross Alexander Gartley      Disaster Risk Management Speci
                                                                HIS
Natalia Gomez               Senior Rural Development Speci    GFADR
Hassine Hedda               Senior Finance Officer            CTRLA
                                                              LCSPS -
Mariano Lafuente            Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.
                                                                HIS
Nara C. Meli                Consultant                        GEDDR
Glenn S. Morgan             Adviser                           OPSOR
Joseph Kizito Mubiru        Lead Financial Management Spec    GGODR
                                                              LCSSO -
Rachel Hannah Nadelman      E T Consultant
                                                                HIS
                                                              LCSAR -
Jules Stuart Pierre         Consultant
                                                                HIS
                                                              LCSPS -
Jeffrey James Rinne         Sr Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.
                                                                HIS
Fily Sissoko                Practice Manager                  GGODR
                                                              LCSAR -
Christina Ariani Wartenberg Junior Professional Associate
                                                                HIS
                                                              LCSPT -
Yao Wottor                  Senior Procurement Specialist
                                                                HIS
Barbara Coello              Consultant                        GFADR

                                              42
Katie Kennedy Freeman      Agric. Economist                     GFADR
Kathryn Johns Swartz       Consultant                           GFADR
Prospere Nindorera         Senior Procurement Specialist        GGODR
Fabienne Mroczka           Sr Financial Management Specialist   GGODR
Franck Bessette            Sr Financial Management Specialist   GGODR
Josue Akre                 Financial Management Specialist      GGODR
Christophe Grosjean        E T Consultant                       GFADR
                                                                LCSAR -
Nicolas Weber              Consultant
                                                                  HIS
Aboubacar Magassouba       Consultant                           GGODR
Rose Caline Cadet          E T Consultant                       GGODR
Emmanuel Ngollo            Consultant                           GENDR




(b) Staff Time and Cost


 Stage of Project      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
 Cycle                 No. of      USD Thousand (including travel and
                       staff       consultant costs)
                       weeks
                                   Fixed       Variable   Total
 Lending               41.56       100,709     179,166    279,875
 Supervision/ICR       82.24       271,577     292,011    563,588
 Total                 123.8       372,286     471,177    843,463




                                            43
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)




                                      44
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A participatory evaluation of the project was undertaken in December 2014 involving
consultations with the various stakeholders in the project in the Les Cayes region. The
consultations were held with representatives from the local operator (NGO), the DDA of
Les Cayes, a number of beneficiary farmers from the proximity of the Levi State farm, as
well as a couple of input suppliers. Separately, a representative of the Bank issuing the
vouchers was met in Port-au-Prince. The discussions with the various stakeholders varied
a bit in accordance with the specific tasks.

The discussions with operators specifically focused on the mechanisms developed under
the project for the process of managing the voucher mechanism. The opinion expressed
was that this process is beneficial as it had developed trust between the various parties
involved in processing the transaction. The basic trust between the various actors in the
system is a basic pre-condition for the system to function and it took substantial time and
efforts in mobilizing each party and for farmers to trust the Bank, Bank to trust suppliers,
suppliers to trust farmers and operator. This basic trust is what finally led to resolution of
the challenge related to having the farmers pick up their vouchers from the Bank, which
was resolved by delegating this to the operators.

The DDA praised the program for its effectiveness in getting the supplies to the field,
which under the previous system was not functioning because many suppliers (who are
also farmers) tended to horde supplies speculating on increasing prices resulting in very
poor timing of input deliveries. The mechanism under this project involving all actors in
the supply chain to get inputs and advise them on timing greatly improved the production
level in the district. The concern was that with significantly improved production, more
needs to be done to help with value chain development to get produce to the market and
develop options for storage so that prices would be more even over the course of the year.

With the farmers, the exchanges mainly concerned discussions of how the project affected
them in terms of income and production and consumption. Overall, farmers were grateful
and expressed satisfaction with the project design. The impact has been that a number of
participants reported that school fees could be paid for children or some made investments
to increase production or improvements to the home and household. Some complaints
were raised as to the timing of the delivery of the inputs and the fact that other inputs, such
as certain pesticides for specific infestations, were not available.

The participating Bank was very favorable to the program although it raised the issue of
the cost of voucher issuance. While the program helped with opening a large number of
accounts for both, farmers and suppliers, for the most part, the money would be withdrawn
as soon as it was deposited, thus not effectively increasing the depositors. To cut costs in
future rounds, the suggestion was made that rather than vouchers, the option of electronic
transfers via mobile phone would need to be envisaged. The Bank was in the process of
developing such a program mainly to have a greater market share in the remittances that
flow to the country, but the system could be easily expanded to serve the purposes of the
MARNDR in building a more effective subsidy payment mechanism.

                                              45
Suppliers reported a significant improvement in the volumes in sales that helped them to
invest and specialize more as services providers, retreating from farming altogether. The
new register of farmers and suppliers helps with improving knowledge on market demand
and inventories, in particular regarding inputs available in Port-au-Prince. The irregular
availability of supplies is a major constraint preventing the business form growing.
However, credit was also raised as a constraint as supplies need to be largely pre-paid
before transport can be organized from the port.




                                           46
Annex 7. Summary of Recipient's Final Report


Le projet RESEPAG 1est mis en œuvre par le MARNDR sous financement de la Banque
Mondiale (Accord de Don H509-0-HT) à hauteur de 5 millions de dollars américains pour
la période allant d’avril 2010 (date à laquelle le premier décaissement a été effectué) au 30
juin 2014. Le projet a en outre bénéficié d’une extension de 2 mois fixant la date de clôture
du Projet au 31 août 2014 et la période de grâce au 31 décembre 2014.
Ce projet visait à renforcer les capacités institutionnelles pour la création de liens entre les
politiques sectorielles élaborées par le Gouvernement et les projets d’investissement sur le
terrain et d’améliorer les services d’appui agricole locaux. Les principaux résultats attendus
sont le développement de la capacité de pilotage du MARNDR dans le secteur agricole et
l’augmentation du nombre d’agriculteurs recevant des services agricoles améliorés dans
les zones ciblées.


Pour l’obtention de ces résultats, le projet est articulé autour de trois (3) composantes : (i)
Renforcement des capacités managériales du MARNDR ; (ii) Amélioration de la gestion
des services agricoles locaux, par des appuis directs aux Agriculteurs/Agricultrices ; (iii)
Coordination et supervision du Projet.
Le projet est exécuté au niveau national pour sa composante 1 (Renforcement des capacités
managériales du MARNDR) et dans les zones de Thiotte-Savane Zombi (Département
du Sud-est) et de Lévy (Département du Sud) pour sa composante 2 (Amélioration de la
gestion des services agricoles locaux), respectivement au profit des producteurs et
productrices de café et des producteurs/productrices de maïs et de haricot.
La composante 1 est mise en œuvre en ayant recours aux services de consultants et des
firmes, respectivement pour renforcer les capacités en genre, en environnement et en
passation de marchés, et pour la mise en place du système d’incitations agricoles au sein
de la composante 2.
Différents acteurs étaient impliqués dans la mise en œuvre du RESEPAG 1; la Banque
Mondiale (IDA) qui a mis les fonds à la disposition du Gouvernement haïtien, réalisé des
missions de suivi et de supervision, permettant d’améliorer la mise en œuvre du projet, le
Gouvernement haïtien, qui, à travers le MARNDR, a su mettre sur pied une coordination
qui était donc chargée de la coordination globale et du suivi de la mise en œuvre du Projet
dans toutes ses composantes, les DDA Sud et Sud-est, qui, en tant que structures
déconcentrées, ont fourni l’accompagnement nécessaire à la mise en œuvre des activités
sur le terrain, les OPS mettant en œuvre les activités conformément aux TDR ainsi définis,
et les Agriculteurs qui constituent à la fois les bénéficiaires cibles et sont parmi les
principaux partenaires du Projet.
Le RESEPAG 1 a permis :
   -   Le renforcement de la cellule genre mise en place au sein de l’UEP du MARNDR



                                              47
   -   La mise en place d’une Cellule Environnementale au sein du MARNDR pour traiter
       des questions relatives à l’intégration de la dimension environnementale dans les
       projets du Ministère
   -   La dotation du MARNDR d’outils indispensables, notamment un Système de Suivi
       évaluation pour un meilleur suivi des indicateurs
   -   La conception, le montage et la mise en opération d'un logiciel comptable sur
       mesure dénommé (SYSCOP), dans le but d'améliorer la gestion fiduciaire du
       ministère
   -    La mise en place de la Cellule de Passation des Marchés du MARNDR
   -   L’installation et la mise en œuvre du système d’information et de communication
       du MARNDR
   -   La création du Site WEB du Ministère @agriculture.gouv.ht
   -   L’établissement d’un registre national d’agriculteurs et un registre de fournisseurs
   -   L’appui à la réalisation de quatre (4) campagnes agricoles dans la plaine des Cayes
       dont 2 campagnes de haricot et 2 campagne de maïs, et une dans le Sud’est à
       Thiotte. Ainsi, le mécanisme d’incitations a bénéficié au total à 4,565 producteurs
       (dont 38% de femmes). Un montant total d’environ 57 millions de Gourdes a déjà
       été dépensé, faisant augmenter le rendement des cultures du maïs et du haricot de
       l’ordre de 40%.
   Globalement, les résultats prévus ont été atteints à des pourcentages satisfaisants et
   encourageants variant de 95% à plus de 100%. Pour ceux ayant dépassé le pourcentage
   de 100%, on peut citer le nombre de vouchers distribués accusant un taux de réalisation
   de 234.06% et la quantité de producteurs et productrices bénéficiaires atteignant
   152.16%.


Le projet a eu à faire face à de nombreuses difficultés, affectant notamment la composante
2. Citons entre autres le manque, voire l’absence de fournisseurs de semences de qualité
obligeant le projet à ne pas financer cette opération, si cruciale pour la production ; La
disponibilité parfois limitée des fertilisants dans les zones d’intervention (en quantité et en
qualité) et l’augmentation de leur prix supérieur à celui escompté; la faible capacité de
trésorerie des fournisseurs d’intrants pour pouvoir disposer de stocks suffisants capables
de satisfaire la demande des agriculteurs.
Les principales leçons qui peuvent optimiser les chances de succès d’autres projets
similaires sont :
    Une bonne anticipation des campagnes agricoles est nécessaire pour prévenir les
     blocages à caractère administratif (émission de coupons au moment opportun,
     paiement des fournisseurs dans les temps requis) qui constituent éléments cruciaux
     pour le bon fonctionnement du système

                                              48
    L’accompagnement technique pour la bonne utilisation des intrants fournis est
     nécessaire pour agir sur plusieurs composantes du rendement et ainsi augmenter
     plus significativement la production agricole et le revenu des producteurs
     bénéficiaires.

    Il est nécessaire de travailler en parallèle sur l’offre de biens et services: recherche
     agronomique, renforcement filière semencière, renforcement du réseau de
     fournisseurs de biens et services agricoles (coopératives, OP, privés, etc.),
     vulgarisation

    Le système de subvention ciblée est incompatible avec le maintien de la subvention
     de l’offre (non ciblée)

    Les appuis financiers fournis aux filières maïs, haricot ont certes permis un
     accroissement de la production mais l’insuffisance de débouchés à prix
     rémunérateur pour les produits générés, notamment le maïs, constitue un frein au
     développement de cette filière. Ainsi, quand des efforts sont faits en amont pour
     inciter les acteurs à produire ou à transformer, il convient aussi de s’assurer qu’en
     aval, les produits générés seront écoulés dans de bonnes conditions et que la
     fonction de commercialisation n’annihile pas les efforts de production


Tenant compte des difficultés rencontrées et des leçons apprises dans le cadre du
RESEPAG 1, les recommandations suivantes peuvent être formulées :
    Renforcer les capacités techniques et financières des fournisseurs pour rendre
     disponibles les biens et services dont les agriculteurs ont besoin
    Améliorer l’offre des fertilisants et des semences de qualité, tout en faisant attention
     aux politiques incompatibles
    Trouver les meilleurs mécanismes à mettre en place pour fournir les conseils
     techniques appropriés aux producteurs bénéficiaires des incitations agricoles
    Améliorer le fonctionnement du système informatisé de gestion des incitations qui
     devrait permettre de diminuer la durée des principales étapes du processus
     d’incitations
    Mettre sur pied, au sein du Ministère de l’Agriculture, une unité et un véritable
     programme d’incitations agricoles, et éviter la multiplication des projets




                                            49
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Comments received from IADB as a partner institution working on agriculture in Haiti.
The implementation of the RESEPAG project has strengthened the collaboration between
the IADB and the World Bank in the agricultural sector of Haiti, especially regarding the
reform agenda and institutional strengthening of the MARNDR. This support includes:
   i)        Strengthening the fiduciary capacity of the ministry by using and providing
             capacity building to a common executing unit, responsible for the fiduciary
             aspects of RESEPAG1, RESEPAG2 and Agricultural Technology Transfer
             Program (PTTA) projects.
   ii)       Co-financing through the Program for the Mitigation of Natural Disasters
             (PMDN) project for the modernization of the computer and information system
             of the MARNDR.
   iii)      Development in close collaboration (RESEPAG and PMDN) of the
             methodology of the agricultural subsidies based on vouchers for the purchase
             of agricultural inputs and services.
   iv)       Strengthening the programming, monitoring and evaluation functions of the
             ministry through its Planning and Studies Unit (UEP).
This close collaboration continues with the RESEPAG2 project, especially for the
strengthening of the ministry’s capacity in providing plant and animal health protection
services, agricultural incentives and extension services.
As part of its strategy in the agriculture sector in Haiti and in collaboration with the World
Bank, the IADB has been supporting the MARNDR in the development of an innovative
mechanism for transferring agricultural technologies based on grants to individual small
farmers. These incentives (direct financial support) are awarded to farmers through
vouchers that allow them to acquire agricultural goods and services required for the
adoption of technical packages from approved suppliers. These technical packages can
generate income and/or protect soil and water resources, combining economic and
environmental goals. These grants are intended to remove or circumvent the following
factors that constrain the adoption of technologies: i) restrictions on access to credit, ii)
problems of access to information and iii) risk aversion.
This support has been provided mainly through the Program for the Mitigation of Natural
Disasters (PMDN, $5 million) and the Agricultural Technology Transfer Program (PTTA
$33 million) since 2013. To date, nearly 17,000 producers have benefited from these
incentives in the departments of the North, Northeast and South, mainly in agroforestry
systems (coffee, cocoa, cashew nuts, fruit and forest species, yams, and bananas), rice and
vegetables. The promoted technical packages vary depending on the areas. Conceptually
these programs are based on the RESEPAG Project, although the PTTA is operationally
more based on the experience of the PMDN.
There is no rigorous evaluation yet, but the following was observed:
Strengths:


                                             50
   -   Increased income and/or yields, which, however, vary depending on cropping
       systems.
   -   Development of a single, transparent and innovative incentive mechanism with the
       development of a single registry.
   -   Progressive development of the supply of agricultural goods and services.
Weaknesses:
   -   Provision of technical packages (agricultural goods and services) is very low,
       mainly due to the lack of agricultural research for over 20 years, the low purchasing
       power of producers and low agricultural technical training.
   -   Absence of other factors promoting the adoption of farming techniques, especially
       irrigation for lowland crops.
   -   Potential fraud if control mechanism is insufficient.
   -   Insufficient harmonization of access to inputs policies (offer versus demand driven),
       and initiatives are still rather perceived as IADB / WB programs rather than
       MARNDR activities.
Perspectives
   -   Strengthening of the control and supervision system of the incentive mechanism,
       including the use and improvement of the Incentives Management System (ICMS),
       the combined systematic use of GIS tools (Geographic Information System) and
       the continuous updating of a single incentives manual.
   -   Consolidation of a single incentive management team within the RESEPAG /
       PTTA unit, which may eventually be incorporated in the future into the value chain
       or innovation department.
   -   Strengthening the supply of agricultural technical packages, including: i) the
       development of agricultural research programs, ii) strengthening suppliers of
       agricultural goods and services (training, credit, technical assistance,
       environmental standards / good agricultural practices, etc.), iii) strengthening the
       national seed service.
   -   Orientation of incentives rather to long-term investments (perennial crops,
       irrigation equipment such as single pump, well, landscaping, etc.) rather than
       intermediate consumption (inputs).
   -   Reconciliation with agricultural credit programs (SYFAAH) to combine grant and
       credits that can lead to an exit strategy.
   -   Potential investment in irrigation and other structural factors favoring the adoption
       of technical packages (in the context of other complementary programs.
   -   If the rigorous assessment developed with the support of DIME provides
       satisfactory results, the IADB will eventually continue this support.




                                            51
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document, report No: 4775-HT

Development Finance Agreement – H509-0-HT

Haiti Interim Country strategy, report No: 71885-HT

Aide Memoires

Implementation Status & Results Reports

Project Restructuring Papers, reports # 53366-HT, RES-14139, June 23, 2014 & August
20, 2014

Project de renforcement des services publics agricoles,(RESEPAG1) Rapport final,
Decembre, 2014

Note sur l’analyse financiere economique de RESEPAG 1

Rapport Annuel du MARNDR de l’exercise 2012-13, 2013-14

MARNDR, Manuel d’incitations, Mai 2009.

MARNDR, Manuel de procedures du suivi-evaluation, Decembre, 2013

MARNDR, Cellule Environmentale, Cadre de gestion environmentale et sociale, 2014




                                          52
MAP
      53
