 IEG
                                                                                                   Report Number: ICRR14760

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                         Date Posted: 06/30/2015

               Country: Haiti
             Project ID: P113623                                                       Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Strengthening The               Project Costs (US$M):                        5.0                  6.85
                         Management Of
                         Agriculture Public
                         Services
  L/C Number:                                            Loan/Credit (US$M):                        5.0                   5.3
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural           Cofinancing (US$M):                        0.0                   0.0
                         Development
            Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                   06/25/2009
                                                                 Closing Date:            06/30/2013            08/31/2014
           Sector(s):       Agricultural extension and research (66%); Public administration- Agriculture; fishing and
                            forestry (34%)
          Theme(s):         Rural services and infrastructure (66%); Rural policies and institutions (24%); Administrative
                            and civil service reform (10%)

Prepared by:                Reviewed by:            ICR Review                   Group:
                                                    Coordinator:
Hassan Wally                Soniya Carvalho         Christopher David            IEGPS1
                                                    Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:
The Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. 8) stated the project development objective (PDO) as: "to enable Ministry
of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development (MARNDR) to prioritize and target investments according
to sector policies, and improve local agriculture support service."

The Financing Agreement (p. 4) stated the project development objective (PDO) as: "to assist the Recipient in
prioritizing and targeting investments in the agriculture sector and improving local agriculture support services."

IEG evaluates the project against the objectives as stated in the Financial Agreement :
(i) assist the Recipient in prioritizing and targeting investments in the agriculture sector; and (ii) improve local
agriculture support services.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
 1. Strengthening Ministry of Agriculture , Natural Resources and Rural Development 's Managerial Functions
(Appraisal Cost: US$2.1 million, Actual Cost: US$3.05 million). Would finance activities under two subcomponents:
     1.1. Sector policies and coordination (US$0.7 million). Would finance the formulation and coordination of sector
     and subsector policies, the mainstreaming of environmental aspects within the agriculture sector policy, and the
     prioritization of investment and regulatory instruments, which are today fulfilled by the Ministry of Agriculture,
     Natural Resources and Rural Development's Direction General and its Planning and Studies Unit (UEP). Funds
     for this subcomponent would finance long and short term technical assistance, workshops, training,
     dissemination material, and web site related expenses (equipment, software, connectivity).
    1.2. Enhancing Administrative , HR, and fiduciary management (US$1.4 million). This subcomponent would
    finance the improvement of Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development's administrative,
    HR, and financial management, including budgetary processes and procurement capacity.

2. Strengthening Farmer Extension and Support Services (Appraisal Cost: US$2 million, Actual Cost: US$3.10
million). This component would finance the expansion of the provision of improved agriculture support services in pilot
areas, the first around the Research Center of Ferme Levi and the second one around the Research Center of
Thiotte-Savane Zombi. Activities financed under this component include: (i) technical assistance and training for
extension agents, farmers, farmer groups and service providers (including environmental and social aspects); (ii)
strengthening of local support service structures (Research and Development Centers and Departmental Agriculture
Directorates); (iii) the development of a farmer and service provider registry (including equipment and software); and
(iv) incentive payments to farmers for adoption of improved agriculture technologies that are both revenue increasing
and environmentally friendly.

3. Project coordination and supervision (Appraisal Cost: US$0.8 million, Actual Cost: US$0.70 million). To support
project coordination and supervision, this component would finance technical assistance, operational costs, and other
related costs.

Revised Components:
Component 1 experienced a number of changes including:
(i) Cancelling the proposed support for developing risk mitigation measures because a more in-depth effort related to
insurance mechanisms was already being undertaken by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA).
(ii) Dropping the strengthening of the ministry's public relations and communication campaign.
(iii) Dropping the training and testing of ministry staff on agricultural policies due to lack of an adequate testing body
available to the ministry. Indicators related to these activities were dropped in the final process of restructuring.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Cost. At appraisal the total project cost was expected to be US$5.0 million (PAD, Annex 5). At project
completion, the ICR (Annex 1) reported that total project cost was US$6.85 million. The ICR noted that component 2
under the project received US$1.6 million from the follow-on World Bank funded operation (Strengthening Agriculture
Public Services 2, P126744).

Financing. At appraisal the project was expected to be financed through an International Development Association
Grant worth US$5.0 million and would be processed under the Global Food Response Program (GFRP). According to
the ICR (Annex 1) the actual Grant amount at completion was US$5.3 million.

Borrower Contribution . This was a Grant funded project and no counterpart funding was expected from the Borrower's
side.

Dates. The project closed 14 months beyond the expected closing date set at appraisal. It was restructured three
                                                         rd
times all of which were Level 2. The first was on May 3 , 2010 in order to reallocate resources from the farmer subsidy
scheme under Component 2 to Component 1 to address urgent needs stemming from an earthquake that impacted
                                                                                    th
the country, simplify disbursement categories; and extend closing date to June 30 , 2014. The second was on June 27
th
   , 2014 in order to extend closing date by two months to accommodate the Government's request for a reallocation to
                                                                                                        th
respond to a larger than expected demand for the farmer subsidy scheme. The third was on August 27 , 2014 in
response to the Government's request to reallocate the Grant proceeds to increase the financing for the voucher
system for agriculture producers and dropping three activities under Component 1.1. The Mid-Term Review was on
              nd
October 22 , 2010.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High.
At appraisal, agriculture was considered the backbone of rural economy in the country and contributed about 25% of
total GDP and accounted for 50% of overall employment, 66% of employment in rural areas and 75% of employment
for the poor. Objectives were highly relevant and in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Haiti
for 2009-2012 which identified agriculture as a key sector to provide economic growth. The project was also included
among the CAS' proposed program of projects. Objectives were also in agreement with Poverty Reduction National
Strategy Document which views agriculture as an important pillar of economic growth and development. Objective
also would support two out three objectives under the Global Food Response Program including supporting the
Government designing and implementing public policies and instruments to mitigate the impact of food price volatility
on poor rural households, thus minimizing market distortions; and supporting sustainable growth in the agriculture
sector by extending rapid direct and institutional support to farmers and introducing risk management mechanisms
(PAD, p, 4).

At project completion, objectives continue to be highly relevant because agriculture remains to be a priority area for
the Government and a key sector for economic growth. Also, objectives reflect the first step in a longer term
engagement with the agriculture public sector reform and development within the country. They link closely with the
follow-on project as well as with other donor funded programs that aim to improve the capacity of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial.
Design included a broad statement of objectives that reflected the intent of a long term engagement with agriculture
sector in Haiti. Design aimed primarily to address fundamental weaknesses at the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural
Resources and Rural Development, and test on a pilot basis a new farmer voucher system to develop a transparent,
efficient and market friendly system to deliver incentives. To achieve the stated objectives, design featured three
components: the first would contribute towards achieving the objectives through strengthening the capacity of the
Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development to formulate and coordinate agriculture sector and
subsector policies, and mainstream environmental aspects within the agriculture sector policy. To strengthen the
managerial capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development, the project would
provide institutional capacity building activities with regards to administrative, HR, and financial management,
including budgetary processes and procurement capacity. The second component would contribute to the
achievement of the objectives through financing the expansion of the provision of improved agriculture support
services in pilot areas through private sector service providers. This involves strengthening the extension service
through training activities and encouraging farmers to adopt improved agriculture technologies through incentive
payments. The third component would focus on project management arrangements. The Results Framework (PAD,
Annex 3) lists the PDO, outcome indicators, and use of outcomes information. However, it did not include clear links
between project inputs, outputs and expected outcomes. It also partially reported on the expected outcomes. Design
also lacked clear quantitative variables to measure the PDO.

Design suffered from some weaknesses including the reliance on a large number of discrete consultancies despite the
low capacity at the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development, "to either source these services
or even integrate them at the ministerial level (ICR, p. 7)." Also, the inclusion of several disbursement categories
intended to protect TA activities under component 2 complicated financial management and presented an ongoing
challenge during implementation especially with very weak financial management at the Ministry of Agriculture,
Natural Resources and Rural Development. Design also focused on the success of the voucher system without
enough attention to the advisory and extension services. Finally, the absence of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
and the reliance on the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development, directly for project
implementation "created ongoing challenges for the ministry, particularly related to satisfying the fiduciary
requirements of the Bank (ICR, p. 7)."

 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   PDO 1: the extent to which the project assisted the Recipient in prioritizing and targeting investments in the
agriculture sector is rated substantial .

Outputs
  By project completion the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development was equipped with a
    M&E system for better monitoring of results indicators focusing on the results framework of the agricultural sector
    policy. This is expected to help the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development to ensure
    oversight and establish proper monitoring and evaluation of programs and projects implemented by its various
    entities and partners.
  The project supported the establishment of the environmental unit within the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural
    Resources and Rural Development to address issues relating to the integration of the environmental dimension in
    the projects of the ministry. However, at project completion the unit had a fairly small staff and according to the
    ICR (p. viii) had "limited capacity for effective field supervision." The project also produced two documents
    entitled environmental management framework and backup and an Integrated Pest and Pesticide Management
    Plan for extension officers in the field with training to provide the desired integration and environmental
    safeguard.
  The project promoted an increasingly gender balanced staffing and contributed to strengthening gender
    awareness within the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development. The project received
    the financial support of the Gender Action Plan to carry out a diagnosis of the constraints faced by women in the
    project. This support enabled greater awareness by the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural
    Development of the importance of this theme, which is expected to facilitate the integration of gender aspects in
    the formulation and implementation of projects under the Ministry.
  By project completion the design, installation and commissioning of custom accounting software to improve the
    department's fiduciary management was in place and operational, however, this was completed 18 months
    before closing date. As a result check issuance was reduced from 15 days at the beginning of the project to 4 to 5
    days with the adoption of software based accounting. Accounting transaction entry is being carried out for two
    projects, namely the World Bank's Strengthening Agriculture Public Services Project 2 and the Inter-American
    Development Bank's Agricultural Technology Transfer Program, however, additional modules need to be
    developed to optimize the software. Two training programs were conducted with twelve (12) sessions to enable
    participants to become familiar with the system and be able to use it effectively to perform all accounting charges
    in relation to their function within the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development.
    However, according to the ICR (p. 22) the accounting software at the Ministry still remains "under used."
  Procurement services capacity at the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development were
    strengthened through establishing a public procurement unit. The project hired an International Procurement
    Expert who trained six young staff. According to the ICR (p. 28) the unit is currently supported by resources from
    the Inter American Development Bank. By project completion 100% of procurement operations over US$100,000
    were available on ministry website compared to none before the project.
  The project supported the ongoing implementation of a computer system and the establishment of an IT unit at
    the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development.
  The project supported the installation and implementation of the system of information and communication for the
    Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development. By project completion, five buildings of the
    ministry were fully equipped (computers, printers, scanner, telephones, software, wireless, fiber optics, internet
    access networks) and sixteen remote locations (Departmental Agriculture Directorate, faculties of Agriculture and
    Research Centers) also were equipped with hardware and (solar) power supply. In addition, 160 civil servants
    were trained in October 2013 (over a period of nine days) in the use of the new computer system. However,
    technology (IT) networking of the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development, including
    its building in Port-au-Prince, its 10 regional offices, along with the research farms, was only completed in early
    2014.
  The project supported the creation of a website for the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural
    Development. This is expected to bring focus on the institutional identity of the department in terms of trade and
    communication and to facilitate the search for information by clients outside of the Ministry. By project
    completion, 260 e-mail accounts as well as the connection of regional offices and research farms in pilot areas
    were achieved compared to a target of 300 and a baseline of none.
Outcome
  The project aimed to provide support to the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development to
    strengthen its capacity to fulfil its mandate. By project completion the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources
    and Rural Development achieved a 95% commitment of the operating budget, excluding salaries, at the
    Ministry's central office (target achieved, baseline: 85%). The project also improved processes and procedures
    within the Ministry by formalizing the process of developing investment proposals, and aligning such proposals
    with investment plans by requiring formal approval by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Also, to ensure that
    resources were spent inline with overall policy objectives, the project reintroduced annual report listing and
    reporting on performance of each investment of the Ministry. The project also supported the development of
    systems and processes to ensure efficient use of budget resources and ensure the availability of upfront
    information on how investment resources are committed. This was carried out through systematic programming
    of project investment proposals into the Public Investment Plan of the Ministry. Such efforts improved budget
    transparency at the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development as it was able to "account
    and document how investment resources have been spent on projects and the actual outputs achieved (ICR, p.
    14)." The project also enhanced financial management within the ministry and contributed to establishing clear
    and transparent procurement rules. However, IT networking and standard operating procedures were completed
    18 months and 12 months prior to project closing, respectively. This makes it challenging to gauge the full impact
    of the project on these areas given the short time of their application.
  Through establishing the new M&E unit within the programming department, the project improved the capacity of
    the Ministry to track resources and expenditures. This is expected to improve the capacity of the Ministry to select
    the most effective and efficient investments. Analysis of two fiscal years carried out in the last semester of the
    project revealed an improving trend with regards to alignment of policy and resources. However, the ICR (p. 14)
    highlighted that alignment was "adapted to the investment program rather than policy guiding the program." The
    ICR (p. 14) correctly pointed out that "prioritization should not only be based on timing of budget resources
    availability, but on strategic priorities reflected in the investment plan in accordance to a schedule and
    milestones." Prioritization and targeting are both an ongoing process and there is still ample room for
    improvement.
PDO2: the extent to which the project improved local agriculture support services is rated substantial

Outputs
   By project completion, a basic farm and beneficiary register as well as services provider register was established
    with geo-referencing of land parcels with individual identification code by beneficiary. More than 6400 farmers
    and 31 service providers enrolled in the registry. According to the ICR (p. ix) National expansion is also
    underway. Before the project there were no records of producers/beneficiaries or services providers.
  One research and development study on coffee value chain was completed compared to a target of two studies.
  By project completion 38 agricultural agents (compared to a target of 20) were trained and equipped with
    information material including the Integrated Pest Manual-developed by the Environmental Unit to help with more
    effective application of pesticides and phyto sanitary treatments.
  1400 hectares of coffee were regenerated in the Commune of Thiotte where 1510 coffee producers (36%
    women) obtained vouchers for trimming of coffee bushes, fertilizer and technical advice as well as traps for insect
    pests to support the production of organic coffee. In the valley of Les Cayes, two bean campaigns and two maize
    campaigns were conducted from October 2012 to June 2014, for the benefit of 3,055 farmers (37% women).
Outcome
  The project aimed to improve service delivery to farmers in terms of extension and advisory services and develop
    a transparent, efficient and market friendly system to deliver incentives. The project managed to put in place a
    system to record beneficiaries and service providers and established a mechanism for incentives to reach
    farmers. This was done on a pilot scale in two project areas (Commune of Thiotte and the valley of Les Cayes).
    By project completion, 7,328 incentive packages were distributed, representing 23,406 vouchers and a total of
    approximately 57 million gourdes which benefitted more than 4,500 farmers compared to an appraisal target of
    3,000 farmers. The ICR (p. 15) highlighted that farmers adopting improved technologies delivered by the project
    achieved significant yield increases. It is not clear what the adoption rate of new technologies was.
  Overall, the available evidence point to the success of the project in creating a delivery mechanism that could be
    upscaled and implemented on a nationwide level. According to the ICR (p. 13) the success of the pilot led to a
    commitment of about US$100 million from other donors to upscale and cover the entire country. However, the
    project could have done more to improve extension and advisory services and train extension specialists. The
    ICR (p. 8) highlighted that the primary focus of the pilot was to get the voucher system to work which became a
    priority over farm advisory support.

 5. Efficiency:
  At appraisal
According to the PAD (Annex 9) benefits from project activities were expected to be difficult to estimate ex-ante.
Therefore, a break-even analysis was conducted for the project as a whole. Under this approach, the minimum
benefits that must be generated by the project to justify costs were determined and the feasibility of obtaining these
benefits was assessed. For component 1, it was assumed that project benefits would materialize through an increase
of agricultural GDP. For Component 2, a cost-benefit analysis was carried out based on the improved coffee
production model. This was a conservative approach, since other benefits could be expected, including social
benefits. To take into account the slow process of institutional reform and capacity building, it was assumed that
benefits would start materializing after project completion, i.e. in Project Year 5 (PY5) and reach full potential only by
PY9. The lifetime of the project was assumed to be 25 years. Economic investment and recurrent costs were obtained
from the project cost tables (without taxes) and without taking into account financial contingencies. The shadow
exchange rate is assumed to equal the market exchange rate. The analysis estimated the Economic Rate of Return
for component 1 and 2 to be 16% and 57%, respectively.

At project completion
The ICR analysis did not follow the same assumptions at appraisal because "(i) the link between the institutional
strengthening by the project and disbursements of the Public Investment Program is very uncertain and the
assumption that the project will accelerate the disbursement rate of the Public Investment Program seems to be over
optimistic; (ii) given the overall impact of the devastating earthquake on the country as a whole as well as on the
agricultural sector in particular, the comparison between the agricultural GDP before and after the project couldn’t
show pertinent results (ICR, p. 32)." In a further communication, the project team explained that the replication of the
appraisal methodology was not possible at completion due to "the collapse of the economy after the earthquake and
the subsequent hurricanes that devastated the country." For component 1, the ICR (p. 16) lists benefits that were
expected as a result of project support including "increased alignment of policies with sector investments," also
"benefits are gained from more efficient public administration, improved procedures for design, approval and
implementation of projects, more efficient communications, and improved financial management and public
procurement processes." However, the ICR (p. 40) noted that no ERR was calculated because "the main benefits of
the institutional strengthening would be extremely difficult to quantify in monetary terms." For component 2, a
cost-benefit analysis was conducted based on data collected during the field mission on crop production of beans,
maize and coffee which were supported by the system of incentives financed by the project. The Economic Internal
Rate of Return from increased crop production was estimated to be 33%. According to the ICR (p. 39) and based on
the total value of incremental production of maize, beans and coffee, each one US dollar of subsidy generated the
equivalent of US$2.56 of additional agricultural production. The ICR highlighted that post-harvest treatments and
marketing of crops need more attention in order to realize the full benefits of the project. Also, no quantitative analysis
of the new subsidy system was carried out due to lack of data.

Administrative and Institutional efficiency
The project closed 14 months later than the expected closing date at appraisal. Project activities experienced a two
year delay in implementation of activities. The ICR implicitly attributed such delay to the 2009 earthquake that
impacted project implementation. In a further communication, the project team explained that the earthquake had a
devastating effect on the country and almost completely demolished much of the physical structure of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development. This required relocation/reconstruction and reorganization
which all led to significant delays that prevented the institutional capacity building to begin as expected at appraisal.
There were cost overruns due to higher than anticipated costs of the IT systems, network installation, registers and
databases and development of procedures at the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development.
In a further communication, the project team pointed out that the high demand by producers for the voucher pilot, lead
the Government to decide to increase the funds available to the producers and transfer some of the administrative
costs for this pilot to the follow-up operation (RESEPAG II, P126674). Also, financial management and procurement
activities suffered from low capacity which contributed to implementation delays. The Project's financial management
and procurement were problematic and rated moderately unsatisfactory in the last ISR.

Overall, efficiency is rated modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                         No

     ICR estimate                      Yes                                     16%                                     100%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives was rated high while relevance of design was rated substantial. Design suffered from
some minor shortcomings as highlighted in section 3b. Efficacy of the first objective and second objectives were both
rated substantial. Despite delays and cost overruns, the project introduced needed institutional reforms and improved
processes, procedures and budget transparency within the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural
Development. The project also successfully piloted a new voucher mechanism to develop a transparent, efficient and
market friendly system to deliver incentives to farmers. The success of the pilot approach led to a decision to upscale
and apply it on a national level. Efficiency was rated modest due to the absence of an ex post quantitative analysis;
and operational and administrative inefficiencies, reflected in cost and time overruns, which were significant.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    The project's main focus was on institutional reforms at the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural
     Development. Such reforms enjoyed political support from Ministers of Agriculture in office during the project's
     preparation and implementation. Also, the voucher mechanism was backed by the current Minister of Agriculture
     who not only agreed to test the pilot, but also supported scaling up. Such activities are highly sensitive to political
     instability or lack of Government support which could undermine achievements or undo project supported
     reforms.
    The units and processes supported by the project are also a point of concern because they are not yet absorbed
     under the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development's official structure. They are
     currently established as cells within the Ministry and funded through donor funded projects. The sustainability of
     such units and processes requires them to be officially absorbed within the Ministry's structure and be part of its
     administrative budget.
    As a result of project support, the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development became the
     first Ministry within the Government to adopt information technology (IT) which entails extra costs due to staffing
     requirements and equipment. There will be a need to harmonize efforts between the Ministry of Agriculture,
     Natural Resources and Rural Development and other parts of the Government to avoid/minimize IT compatibility
     issues and ensure smooth establishment of IT system linkages within the Government.
    Finally, in order for the voucher system to function as expected, the Government needs to facilitate the
     development of more competition in the private import market to ensure a more secure supply of agricultural
    inputs. Failure to do so might contribute to the collapse of the whole voucher system if it fails to supply farmers
    with necessary inputs at "the adequate quantity, quality and at the right time for sowing/planting (ICR, p. 20)."

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The World Bank prepared a project that addressed much needed institutional reforms at the Ministry of
Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development to enable it to better fulfill its mandate. The project
preparation benefitted from the Agricultural Public Expenditure Review (PER) that was undertaken by the Bank in
2007. The PER identified weaknesses in the agriculture sector including disconnect between allocated donor
resources and sectoral priorities, the lack of continuity in programs and resources from year to year; and resource
management inefficiency as well as weak program monitoring and evaluation.
   Rapid preparation of the project (six months from identification to Board approval) followed the 2007 food
     crisis and the establishment of the Global Food Response Program (GFRP). Haiti was identified as one of the
     first countries to benefit from GFRP. Project preparation benefitted from an experienced multifaceted team.
     Also, the involvement of the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development staff and
     technical directorates in the preparation process ensured project ownership.
   The project objectives were broad with no clear quantitative variables and the Results Framework did not fully
     capture the expected results of project activities. Project design reflected a longer term engagement in the
     country's agriculture sector. It aimed to introduce much needed institutional reforms at the Ministry of
     Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development and at the same time pilot a system to effectively
     channel incentives to farmers and consequently contribute to increasing productivity.
   Design suffered from some weaknesses, for example, it relied on a large number of discrete consultancies
     despite the low capacity at the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development to either
     source or even integrate such services. Also, the multiple disbursement categories under component 2 was
     problematic throughout implementation given weak financial management capacity.
   The management arrangement for the project did not include a separate project implementation unit. This
     created a challenge for the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development to meet the
     Bank's fiduciary requirements despite arrangements for consultancy services to help with procurement and
     financial management.
   Several risk areas were identified at the appraisal stage, most notable were risks related to fiscal and financial
     constraints. Mitigation measures did not always function as expected as in the case of relying on
     consultancies to help the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development meet the Bank's
     fiduciary requirements.
   M&E suffered from weaknesses in design and implementation (see section 10a).

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The project was implemented under a challenging environment and faced unforeseen events (2009
earthquake) that disrupted implementation. In total the Bank supervision team conducted 11 implementation
support missions, in addition to other informal visits as part of implementation support for other projects. The Bank
team provided close proactive supervision of project activities and accommodated the client to ensure maximum
project impact. The Bank was responsive to the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural
Development's needs after the 2009 earthquake. The team was also effective in reallocating funds to address
demand under the farm support program. Project implementation benefitted from good synchronization with the
follow-on project and good rapport with others donors especially the Inter-American Development Bank. However,
the project could have benefitted from earlier attention to the M&E system rather than waiting towards the end of
the implementation period. M&E was generally weak and financial management and procurement continued to be
challenging throughout implementation. In a further communication, the project team highlighted that the project
would have benefitted from more resources to "optimize hand holding and field visits." There was lack of evidence
on some safeguards.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory
 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The Government in general showed goodwill and provided necessary support to the project when needed,
despite a series of natural disasters that coincided with the project implementation. However, the lack of qualified
personnel who were capable of dealing with new system and processes was a continuing problem for the project
and the Government did little to help on this side. As a result, implementation suffered from delays with regards to
procurement activities. Also, the accounting software that was expected to handle investments under the Ministry
of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development remains under utilized.

   Government Performance Rating                                  Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development was the Implementing Agency of the
project; and most of the activities were implemented under its Department for policy and programming. The
project benefitted from a committed project coordinator who according to the ICR (p. 22) was able to "get things
done" despite entrenched resistance for change. In a further communication, the project team explained that this
was the first time that the Ministry of Agriculture was implementing a project without the help of a PIU and the first
Ministry in Haiti to test this institutional arrangement. The Department for policy and programming benefited from
the project support and its staff capacity improved with regards to M&E and Environmental issues. The
department also benefitted from a gender specialist and the installation of an IT system. Although the response
time to Bank inputs on fiduciary aspects in particular were very long, overall, the Ministry and the Department for
policy and programming were committed to the project and demonstrated good effort in implementation. M&E
should have received more attention earlier in the project. Also, financial management and procurement continued
to be challenging throughout implementation, and both were rated moderately unsatisfactory in the final ISR.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                          Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   M&E design relied on three main outcome indicators geared towards capturing the achievement of the PDO. Two
of these indicators would cover the first objective which relates to institutional strengthening at the Ministry of
Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development and the other indicator relates to improving local support to
agriculture services. The second outcome indicator was not clearly defined and did not include a quantitative target to
assess the achievement. In addition, improvements in investment budget prioritization and targeting is an open ended
process and subject to "continuous improvements and refinements until costs would outstrip benefits (ICR, p. 9)." The
outcome indicator that measures the improvement in agriculture services is rather an output and does not reflect
actual impact of the project. Design could have benefited from the inclusion of indicators that would measure
agriculture productivity, farmers' income and poverty. Two out of eleven intermediate outcome indicators were
dropped completely due to cancellation of related activities (see section 2c). Overall, indicators did not fully reflect the
scope of the PDO and the Results Framework partially reported on the expected results of project activities.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The Technical department unit at the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development was
responsible for collecting M&E data. According to the ICR (p. 9) M&E data was collected too late to be effectively used
by project management, however, the situation improved after the financial management system was in place. The
ICR (p. 9) reported that data collection on indicators was late and only completed in the last year of implementation.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The ICR provides limited information on M&E utilization. It highlighted (p. 9) that the late collection of data limited its
use with regards to any significant management decisions.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest
11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
At design, the project triggered three safeguard policies: Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01), Pest Management
(OP 4.09) and Forests (OPIBP 4.36). It was classified as an environmental category B (PAD, Annex 10).

Environmental Safeguards . An environmental assessment was carried out and did not find significant risk and
assessed that environmental impacts would be mostly favorable (ICR, p. 10). The project supported building the
capacity of the environmental unit at the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development. It also
ensured that technology packages followed environmental guidelines. The environmental unit also developed an
integrated pest management manual that would be part of any crop support program. According to the ICR (p. 10)
there were no environmental issues raised during implementation.

Social Safeguards. The project sought to promote the importance of gender. A gender specialist was permanently
hired within the M&E unit to raise the awareness about the importance of gender issues and ensure the participation
of women in the project activities. According to the ICR (p. 10) "the project was not associated with any social
safeguard risks."

The ICR does not report on compliance with the Bank's Pest Management (OP 4.09) and Forests (OPIBP 4.36)
safeguards.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management . At the beginning of implementation, the project struggled with fiduciary compliance due to
challenges in both financial management and procurement. The project introduced a financial management software,
however, the full potential of it was not realized during implementation. It is expected that the system would improve
the administration of follow-on projects as well future donor-funded projects implemented under the Ministry of
Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development. Interim Financial Reports and payment processing
experienced delays due to manual bookkeeping and ledger accounts on paper. Financial audits were also delayed.
Overall, financial management was weak and the last Implementation Status and Results Report rated it as
moderately unsatisfactory. In a further communication, the project team highlighted that the final audit report for the
project was unqualified.

Procurement. Management of procurement documentation and contracts remained a constant challenge throughout
the implementation period despite the Bank's support. There were procurement delays due to low staff capacity and
unfamiliarity with the Bank's procurement rules. This also contributed to delays in the introduction of the financial
management software. Procurement was rated moderately unsatisfactory in the last Implementation Status and
Results Report.

 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
Positive. As a result of the project's voucher program and sowing campaigns, project areas saw productivity increases
ranging from 50 to 60%. The ICR (p. 19) highlighted that sowing seeds on time and adding fertilizer could have
significant impact on productivity.

Negative. Project pilot areas saw a decrease in crop prices due to increased supply and limited marketing. This
highlights the importance of establishing supply chains to ensure marketing of crops when productivity increments are
expected.

d. Other:
None.


12. Ratings:                              ICR                IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory              Moderately             Efficiency was rated modest due to
                                                        Satisfactory           weaknesses in financial management
                                                                               and procurement and cost overruns.
          Risk to Development Significant               Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory              Moderately             There were moderate weaknesses at
                                                            Satisfactory         Quality at Entry and concerns regarding
                                                                                 supervision with respect to M&E. There
                                                                                 was lack of evidence on some
                                                                                 safeguards.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                               Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The following five lessons are emphasized with some rearrangement and adaptation of language:

    Institutional capacity building projects require relatively greater Government support and intense supervision .
     The project experience demonstrated that a relatively small institutional capacity building project, even in a
     country fraught with crises and challenges can, if the government is truly on board, and with intensive Bank
     supervision, result in significant improvements in the way a Ministry performs its mandate. Such projects, even
     when involving modest lending amounts, require significant implementation support with many staff weeks and
     adequate supervision budgets. However, these transformations might not be permanent gains unless
     continued follow up is maintained.
     Implementation without a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in a situation of weak institutional capacity can
     be slower than with a PIU , but can yet be useful . When a project is implemented directly within the ministry
     without a PIU, the project design and implementation arrangements must be simple and well defined at
     preparation and design stage. Implementation speed must be expected to be slower than with a PIU.
     Moreover, institutional projects are time consuming, but have potential for high rewards.
    Client ownership of results framework s is key. Results frameworks need to be simple and the linkages
     between the activities and the indicators need to be readily understood by the client in order to have adequate
     ownership and buy in to collect the necessary data to assess the outcomes.
    Policy dialogue is needed for institutional change and subsidy reform . Policy dialogue at the ministerial level,
     ownership of technical staff and active involvement of a broad range of stakeholders are important for
     institutional change and subsidy reform.
    To decrease the chances of policy reversal , a pilot approach is advised followed by scaling up . The voucher
     mechanism introduced a major re-thinking of how farmers receive subsidies. Before jumping into the full scale
     project, the ministry tested a small-scale innovative methodology. This type of small scale approach is also
     critical to show results and generate broad support from policy makers, donors and beneficiaries. Once scaling
     up is launched, efforts to keep key stakeholders informed about the project will need to be maintained to show
     the benefit of the reform.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

Overall, the ICR is well written. It provides thorough yet concise coverage of project activities. It also includes a
number of useful lessons that reflect the project's experience. The ICR also provides a logical discussion of the
project outcomes to the extent possible given weaknesses in M&E. However, the comments on the Results
Framework seemed in some cases contradictory, for example, on page 7 the ICR states that: "indicators did not
necessarily reflect the breadth of the objective and the results framework only partially reported on the expected
results of project activities, while on page 9 it states that "the results framework included useful information that would
make tracking of progress fairly straightforward." The ICR does not report compliance with the Bank's Pest
Management (OP 4.09) and Forests (OPIBP 4.36) safeguards.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
