Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14640
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
JUNE 21, 1995
Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit: Egyptian Pound (LE) = 100 Piasters = 1000 Miliemas
Exchan2e Rates
Official           Market
Period                 End of Period      Period Average
1984                       0.700              0.8317
1985                       0.700              1.3009
1986                       0.700              1.3502
1987                       0.700              1.5015
1988                       0.700              2.2129
1989                       1.100              2.5171
1990                       2.000              2.7072
1991                                          3.3000
1992                                          3.3303
1993                                          3.3465
1994                                          3.3800
9194 (April)                                  3.3940
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                        - African Development Bank
CBE                        - Central Bank of Egypt
DIB                        - Development Industrial Bank
EIB                        - European Investment Bank
EIDDC                      - Engineering and Industrial Design and
Development Center
FC                         - Foreign Currency
GOE                        - Government of Egypt
ICR                        - Implementation Completion Report
IDB                        - Islamic Development Bank
IDBE                       - Industrial Development Bank of Egypt
ILO                        - International Labor Organization
KfW                        - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LC                         - Local Currency
SMI                        - Small and Medium Industry
SME                        - Small and Medium Enterprise
SSI                        - Small-Scale Industry
SSPISU                     - Special Services to Private Industrial Sector Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  ...............................................  i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ..................................  iii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background  ......................................   1
B. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives .....................   1
C. Achievement of Objectives .............................   2
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .....   5
E. Project Sustainability  ................................   6
F. Bank Performance  ..................................   7
G. Borrower Performance  ...............................   7
H. Assessment of Outcome  ..............................   8
1.  Future Operations  ..................................   9
J.  Key Lessons Learned    ...............................   9
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .14
Table 3:   Project Timetable .............................. 14
Table 4: Loan Disbursement .15
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation .16
Table 7: Studies Included In Project .17
Table 8: Project Costs and Bank Financing .18
Table 9: IDBE Financial Statements .24
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ........................  25
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ....             ...... 30
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Weeks  ..................... 31
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions  .......................  32
Appendices
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire  ..............................  34
B. Borrower's Contribution to ICR  ..........................  43
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2458-EGT)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Small and Medium Scale
Industry Project in Egypt for which Loan 2458-EGT in the amount of US$170 million equivalent to
the Arab Republic of Egypt, as the Borrower, was approved on June 28, 1984 and made effective on
August 19, 1987. The loan amount was subsequently reduced to US$95 million following the
Borrower's request in 1990 to cancel US$75 million.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1994, compared with the original closing date of June 30,
1992. Final disbursement took place on July 29, 1994, at which time a balance of US$8.65 million
was cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by a mission' which visited Egypt in September/October 1994,
reviewed by Mr. Alastair J. McKechnie, Chief, Private Sector Development and Infrastructure
Division, and Mr. Gianni Brizzi, Project Adviser, Country Department II, Middle East and North
Africa Region. The Borrower and the financial intermediary, the Industrial Development Bank of
Egypt (IDBE), provided comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR. Preparation of this
ICR began during the Bank's final supervision mission (September 18-October 6, 1994). It is based
on material in the project files. The Borrower and the financial intermediary (IDBE) assisted in the
preparation of the ICR by contributing views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire, preparing their
own evaluation of the project's execution and initial operation, and commenting on the draft ICR.
1/    Consisting of Messrs. Yermal T. Shetty (Mission Leader, Task Manager), Nabil Shehadeh (Senior
Operations Officer) and Mr. Rouchdy Saleh (consultant, Resident Mission).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2458-EGT)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Bank Group's involvement with the Industrial Development Bank of Egypt (IDBE) and
its predecessor organizations dates back to 1973 and since then those organizations have received six
lines of credit totalling US$420 million equivalent, including US$170 million under Ln. 2458-EGT
for the Small and Medium Scale Industry Project, the subject of this Implementation Completion
Report (ICR). IDBE, which is fully owned by the Government of Egypt (GOE), has been serving as
a development finance institution (DFI) to promote and finance particularly the development of small
and medium industries (SMIs) in the private sector. In this context, it has been giving priority to the
small scale industries (SSIs) including artisan enterprises which have difficulty in getting financing
from commercial banks. In financing SSIs, IDBE has been working closely with the Engineering and
Industrial Design and Development Center (EIDDC), a public sector organization, which provides
extension services, engineering consultancy and management courses to SSIs. EIDDC was also a
beneficiary under the Project, Ln. 2458-EGT, as well as two previous Bank loans (Ln. 1533-EGT and
Ln. 2074-EGT).
Project Objectives
2.    The Project aimed to support the development of SMIs in the private sector through financial
and technical assistance. Of the total loan of US$170 million to GOE (the Borrower), US$168.1
million was to be channeled through IDBE to finance SMIs; US$1.5 million was to be made available
as a grant to EIDDC to support its ongoing technical assistance program to improve the productivity
and efficiency of SMIs and to develop better linkages between small and large enterprises for sub-
contracting purposes; and the remaining US$0.4 million to be used to pay the front end fee on the
Bank loan.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The Project experienced prolonged delays. The loan did not become effective for about three
years mainly because of disagreement between the Bank, IDBE and GOE on how to deal with the
foreign exchange risk under the loan which was made at a time when distortions in the financial
sector were high. The Bank and GOE wanted the sub-borrowers to assume the risk between US$ and
the Egyptian Pound and IDBE wanted GOE to assume this risk for a fee, but GOE was reluctant to
do so. IDBE felt that, considering the high risk of devaluation of the Egyptian Pound in an
inflationary and unstable economic environment, the demand for Bank funds by potential sub-
borrowers would be limited if they were required to assume the foreign exchange risk. Eventually,
agreement was reached to provide sub-borrowers with two options: (i) borrowing in local currency,
assuming no foreign exchange risk but paying a fee to GOE for taking such risk; or (ii) borrowing in



iv                                                                    Evaluation Summary
foreign currency, assuming the foreign exchange risk and paying an interest rate that was much lower
in nominal terms than under option (i). Following this agreement for amendments of the original
terms, the loan was declared effective in August 1987. In spite of these changes, the demand for
Bank loan funds continued to be limited because of cheaper funds available to IDBE from other
external sources and the extreme sluggishness of investment due to high inflation and economic
recession. Subsequently, further changes in the terms and conditions were agreed with GOE and
IDBE in 1989 and 1992 to bring them in line with market conditions. Meanwhile, the Bank also
extended the Closing Date for the loan twice from June 1992 to June 1994. In spite of these
developments, the disbursements under the loan remained low because the funds available from
different sources to IDBE proved to be in excess of the demand for foreign currency funds by
industrial enterprises. IDBE was able to use only US$85.5 million out of the allocation of US$168.1
million to it. In the case of the technical assistance component of the Project also, the use of funds
was less than expected partly because of the delay in loan effectiveness and partly because GOE did
not provide adequate support to EIDDC to meet its local currency needs. As a result, about
US$83.65 million (49 percent of the loan) had to be cancelled from the original loan.
Project Sustainability
4.    The Project has contributed to the institutional development of IDBE and the promotion of
SMI, though on a smaller scale than originally anticipated. IDBE has significantly developed its
project appraisal and supervision capability and is increasingly reaching a larger number of small and
medium scale industries. The demand for financing by SMIs is now increasing significantly and
IDBE is trying to intensify its resource mobilization efforts. The quality of IDBE's portfolio has
improved since FY93 with the reduction in arrears as a percentage of outstanding loans. Its financial
structure has become sound with the debt/equity ratio in FY94 being about 7:1 (as against the agreed
limit of 9:1).
Project Cost, Financing and Time Schedules
5.    Ln. 2458-EGT (US$170 million equivalent) was provided to GOE for channeling funds to
IDBE and EIDDC to develop SMIs and provide technical assistance, respectively. IDBE provided
term loans to about 250 enterprises in the SMI sector. Of them, 223 were completed successfully
within cost and schedule, and 27 have been facing major problems. Efforts are being made to
overcome those problems. There was no co-financing in the Project. However, while the Project
was under implementation, IDBE was able to mobilize about US$250 million equivalent from other
foreign sources at cheaper terms; this was partly responsible for the slow use of Bank funds.
Major Factors Affecting Achievement
6.    The main reasons for the slow utilization of loan funds and the project delay were: (i) the loan
was made at a time when the demand for loan funds in general was sluggish due to high inflation,
rising interest rates and the increasing risk of devaluation; (ii) the loan amount proved to be too large
especially when IDBE was able subsequently to mobilize funds from other external sources at more
favorable terms; (iii) the onlending terms and conditions proved to be too onerous and the customers
were not willing to assume the foreign exchange risk between the US$ and the Egyptian Pound (as the
risk of devaluation was high); (iv) review and revision of the onlending terms and conditions took too



Evaluation Summary                                                                        v
much time; and, (v) with respect to the technical assistance program for SSIs, GOE did not make
adequate budget allocation to meet local currency needs of EIDDC to supplement Bank funds.
Bank and Borrower Performance
7.     The Bank has played an important role in institution building with respect to IDBE as a
leading DFI to provide term financing to SMIs in the private sector. The Project designed by the
Bank with the help of IDBE staff proved to be too ambitious. The complexity of a DFI operation in
a distorted financial market with multiple interest rates and multiple exchange rates was
underestimated. Further, it became difficult to find effective and timely solutions to problemns faced
in the Project because of frequent changes in the composition of the supervision mission staff.
8.     GOE, the Borrower, found it difficult to get the Project implemented by IDBE in an
environment of distorted interest and exchange rate regimes. The much-needed policy reforms came
rather late in the project cycle. When the reforms were finally undertaken under SAL in early 1991,
things began to improve after the initial period of adjustment, and the pace of utilization of Bank
funds quickened. This was also facilitated by the third and final revision of the onlending terms and
conditions agreed in April 1992 between the Bank, GOE and IDBE.
Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons
9.     The Project, even though substantially delayed, was able to help improve the operations of
IDBE from the state they were in when the loan was made in the mid-1980s. This is partly due to
institutional development efforts under the Project and prudent bank regulations introduced under SAL
in mid-1991. The application of these regulations to IDBE was supervised under the Project.
Further, considering the higher risks associated with the financing of SMIs, it is significant that of the
250 sub-projects financed under the Project, only 27 (11 percent of the total) experienced major
problems and the rest were implemented successfully. This was partly due to more rigorous criteria
applied in the project selection for financing under the Bank loan.
10.    The demand for term loans from IDBE is now on the rise and the IDBE is intensifying its
efforts to mobilize resources. In this context, IDBE is trying to secure long-term funds while, at the
same time, pursuing the option of restructuring and privatization. The Bank has indicated that it
would be prepared to consider future financing for IDBE under an apex loan once IDBE plans for
restructuring and privatization are underway. Currently, IDBE is not a fully viable institution mainly
because it is not yet successful in recovering arrears in a satisfactory manner.
11.   The main lessons learned from the Project are:
a.    In a country where there are widespread distortions in the interest and foreign
exchange regimes, DFI operations face serious problems.
b.    In a country facing high risks of devaluation, the demand for foreign currency loans
by private investors would be limited if they have to bear the foreign exchange risk.
In that environment, the investors could be provided with the option of purchasing
foreign exchange from DFI at the market exchange rate.



vi                                                                       Evaluation Summary
c.     The operation of an ongoing DFI should not be limited by too many restrictive
provisions and requirements under a Bank loan. However, it should be required to
follow prudent regulations under the supervision of the central bank.
d.     The success of a DFI operation depends on the success of the DFI in strengthening its
capability for project appraisal and supervision, and in intensifying its efforts to deal
with problem projects and also to collect arrears overdue.
e.     Critical issues which are likely to delay loan effectiveness should normally be resolved
before Board presentation of the project. Further, the Bank should not generally wait
for more than a year for the loan to become effective. If the Project Launch Mission
following loan approval finds persisting serious problems, the Bank should consider
cancelling the loan if it is not effective within a year.
f.     Careful consideration should be given to cancelling surplus funds from a Bank loan in
a timely manner if there are clear indications that the environment for the use of funds
is not improving and demand for term loans is sluggish.
g.     The Bank leverage on influencing DFI onlending terms and conditions is limited when
funds are available from other sources on soft terms. In this environment, Bank funds
bearing tougher terms and conditions would be utilized only when funds from other
sources bearing softer terms are used up. Moreover, it is not practical to achieve a
positive onlending interest rate under a Bank loan in a financial market which has
widespread distortions.
h.     Following revisions in the onlending terms and conditions, the option of using, in
addition to IDBE, one or more commercial banks with wide national network for
onlending should have been explored in order to expedite the use of Bank funds.
i.    IDBE's practice of sending its representatives for the opening of competitive bids for
procurement of goods by sub-borrowers under the Bank loan proved useful to make
the process fair and transparent.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2458-EGT)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background
1.    The Development Industrial Bank (DIB) commenced operations in August 1976, when the
activities, staff, and portfolio of the Special Services to Private Industrial Sector Unit (SSPISU) of the
Bank of Alexandria was transferred to DIB to form the nucleus of a development bank. DIB was
later renamed as the Industrial Development Bank of Egypt (IDBE). IDBE and its predecessor
organizations have received six lines of credit from the Bank Group totalling US$420 million
equivalent, including US$170 million under Ln. 2458-EGT for the Small and Medium Scale Industry
Project, the subject of this Implementation Completion Report (ICR). IDBE's paid-up capital of LE
146.2 million is held entirely by the Government and it finances primarily enterprises of private
companies and/or companies established under Law 43 (of 1974) with government participation which
enjoy the status of autonomous entities and operate on private lines. Its main objective is to
encourage industrial growth in the private sector, with particular attention to the growth of small and
medium enterprises (SMEs). In this context, its main functions are to mobilize resources, both
foreign and local, and provide term loans to SMIs which generally experience difficulty in getting
such loans from commercial banks. The Bank has played an important role in the development of
IDBE and its predecessor organizations and, in spite of many problems faced, IDBE has now become
a fairly sound institution and the demand for its loans are increasing.
B. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
2.    The Project was designed to provide additional support (in addition to a total of US$ 250
million from the Bank Group provided under Cr. 412-EGT, Cr. 576-EGT, Ln. 1804-EGT, Ln. 1533-
EGT and Ln. 2074-EGT) to the development of small and medium industries (SMIs) in Egypt through
a substantial line of credit to be channeled through IDBE, and also provide technical assistance to
individual beneficiary enterprises through the Engineering and Industrial Design Development Center
(EIDDC) under the Ministry of Industry. Accordingly, from a total loan of US$ 170 million to the
Government (the Borrower), (i) US$168.1 million was to be provided to IDBE to meet a substantial
part of its foreign exchange requirements for onlending to SMIs, with special emphasis on small-scale
industries (SSIs); (ii) US$1.5 million was to be provided to EIDDC as grant to continue its technical
assistance including training for SMIs begun under two previous Bank loans (Lns. 1533 and 2074-
EGT); and, (iii) the remaining US$400,000 was to be used to pay the front-end fees on the Bank
loan. Under both components (i) and (ii) of the Project, the use of funds fell short of expectations.
In the case of IDBE, it was not able to make use of all the funds allocated to it because the loan
amount proved to be too large when the subsequent availability of funds from other sources (at more
favorable terms than the Bank loan) was taken into account. In the case of EIDDC, its operations



2                                                           Implementation Completion Report
were hampered by the lack of local currency funds (expected to come from the Government budget)
and also its management problems.
3.     Looking back, it appears that: (i) a substantial loan was made at a time when the demand for
term loans in general was turning sluggish because of increasing inflation and interest rates in Egypt,
and the resulting economic recession in the mid-1980s; and (ii) terms and conditions for onlending the
Bank funds proved too onerous under the distorted market conditions in Egypt. There was very
limited demand for foreign currency denominated loans bearing fixed rates (which were to be not less
than 14 percent as stipulated in the Loan Agreement) at a time when the exchange rate was distorted
and the risk of devaluation was high. The Bank and GOE wanted the sub-borrowers to assume the
risk between US$ and the Egyptian Pound while IDBE wanted GOE to assume this risk for a fee, but
GOE was reluctant to do so. IDBE felt that, considering the high risk of devaluation of the Egyptian
Pound in an inflationary and unstable economic environment, the demand for Bank funds by potential
sub-borrowers would be limited if they were required to assume the foreign exchange risk. Because
of the above issues, IDBE and GOE needed time to review market conditions, availability of funds
from other sources, and the terms and conditions for onlending (to make subloans more attractive to
SMIs). This review took a long time and, as a result, the loan did not become effective for about
three years following revisions of restrictive terms and conditions. Even after these revisions, the use
of Bank funds proceeded slowly because the onlending terms and conditions for Bank funds were still
not attractive under market conditions. Consequently, the terms and conditions were revised twice
more, in 1989 and 1992, respectively. Only after the April 1992 revisions, which followed the
improvement in the economic environment in Egypt under reforms initiated under SAL in early 1991,
the demand for subloans under Project began to pick up. As a result of the above-mentioned
problems, of the total loan of US$ 170 million, only US$86.35 million (51 percent of the total) was
utilized and the remaining US$83.65 million was cancelled.
C. Achievement of Objectives
Macroeconomic and Sector Policies
4.     Following very conservative lending practices, commercial banks in Egypt made loans
primarily to well-known customers with high credit-rating and on the basis of a rigid collateral policy.
The capital market was largely inactive, with only limited activity in the two stock exchanges in Cairo
and Alexandria in the 1970s. The SMIs were finding it difficult to get access to term loans on the
basis of the financial and economic viability of projects. IDBE has been developed over the years for
term lending to SMIs on the basis of sound appraisal and for promoting the expansion of the private
sector. IDBE has emerged as the leading institution to meet financial needs of SMIs in the private
sector.
5.     Under the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) initiated in January 1991, there was
liberalization of price and import controls as well as of interest rates and the exchange rate regime.
Further, changes in banking regulations were also introduced. Under the financial sector reforms, the
financial intermediaries such as IDBE were required to have more stringent reserve and liquidity
ratios. These regulations served as effective tools for improving the financial management of those
institutions, even though initially those requirements affected the cash flow and profitability of banks
in general. Those regulations coupled with substantial increases in the treasury bill and discount rates
of the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) had the effect of contracting the level of loanable funds available



Implementation Completion Report                                                       3
particularly to investment banks which have a limited deposit base (as they cannot accept deposits
from the general public). Further, CBE also required financial intermediaries, on a tax deductible
basis, to make provisions for full coverage of loans in arrears over six months and to suspend interest
income accruals. As a result of these reforms, the financial intermediaries had to adjust their policies
and procedures to survive in a competitive environmnent.
6.    The Government's economic reforms initiated under SAL in 1991 helped provide a more
favorable environment for private investment. However, the disbursement of bank loans did not pick
up that year (partly because there was difficulty in getting local currency loans to supplement Bank
funds) in spite of the fact that the interest rate on LE denominated loans came down to about 17
percent at the beginning of 1991 from around 20 percent earlier. The reduction in the interest was
not considered adequate by potential borrowers.
Physical Objectives and Attainment in the Sub-projects
7.    Of the US$168.1 million, IDBE was able to use only US$85.51 million for reasons already
explained (para 3). IDBE provided Bank funds to about 250 sub-projects, of which 140 sub-projects
(56 percent) were highly successful, 83 sub-projects (33 percent) were successful and the remaining
27 sub-projects (11 percent) experienced major problems and are trying to resolve them. The
beneficiary sub-projects were mainly in priority sectors such as spinning and weaving, chemicals,
metals and engineering, food processing, paper and printing, leather and leather products,
construction and building materials.
8.    Under the second component of the Project, the operation of EIDDC faced serious problems
because of: (i) lack of budget support by GOE; (ii) lack of adequate efforts by EIDDC to recover
costs by charging fees for training; (iii) the three-year delay in the effectiveness of the Bank loan; (iv)
the full amount of the surcharge (0.4 percent) included in the onlending rate of EDGE to sub-
borrowers was not transferred by IDBE to EIDDC due to a dispute on repayment of amounts
borrowed earlier by the latter; and, (v) since EIDDC was slated to privatization in 1993 and was to
become ineligible for any GOE grants, EIDDC opted to cancel the remaining TA funds to avoid any
repayment obligation in the future. IDBE provided some support to EIDDC before the Bank loan
became effective but did not provide the 0.4 percentage portion, as agreed, from its onlending rate for
the Bank loan on the ground that EIDDC did not settle its outstanding debt to IDBE. EIDDC
received advisory services from ILO but its operations were also affected by lack of good
management. As a result, the SSI program of EIDDC came to a standstill in 1987. However, it was
restarted in 1988 when a new president was appointed. Ultimately, EIDDC was able to utilize
US$423,850 from US$1.5 million allocated to it under the Bank loan. It could not make use of the
entire amount because it did not get agreed contributions from the Government budget to meet local
currency costs. Further, EIDDC did not have adequate training staff and equipment. It also did not
maintain well its equipment.
Financial Objectives
9.    The main financial objectives were to help strengthen IDBE's financial position by improving
its capital structure and reducing its portfolio problems, and to enable it to expand lending to SMIs.
By 1987, at the time of the loan effectiveness, the debt/equity ratio was 13.7:1 against the agreed
level of 9:1. To rectify this situation, the Government increased its equity contribution following
Bank recommendations. IDBE also was able to intensify its efforts to recover arrears, make higher



4                                                            Implementation Completion Report
provisions for loans outstanding for more than six months, and improve its liquidity position.
Between FY87 when the loan became effective and FY94, IDBE's debt/equity situation improved
from 13.7:1 to 7.1:1. During that period, IDBE's outstanding loans increased by about 80 percent to
LE 522.2 million. In FY94, arrears as a percentage of the outstanding loans was 34.4 percent. Even
though this level was lower than in FY93 (when the comparable percentage was 37 percent), it was
still high. Further, of the total arrears, about 89 percent was due for more than six months. Now
IDBE is giving increased attention to reducing the level of arrears by intensifying its collection
efforts.
Social Objective
10.   The Project gave special attention to the development of the SSIs including artisan ventures,
which were finding it extremely difficult to get term loans from commercial sources. The
development of SSIs under the Project helped generate more then 7,500 jobs, thus helping alleviate
poverty to some extent.
Environment
11.   IDBE has been paying attention to pollution control during appraisal and supervision of sub-
projects financed under the Project. Its loan beneficiaries are required to follow local regulations for
air and water pollution.
Institutional Development
12.    As noted, the Bank Group has been associated since 1973 with the development of IDBE and
its predecessor organizations to provide term financing to SMIs. The Bank continued its efforts
under Ln. 2458-EGT to strengthen IDBE by helping improve its internal policies, planning and
management information systems, and also strengthen its appraisal, supervision and follow-up
capability. Recruitment and training efforts were continued under the Project. About 330 IDBE
employees have been trained in about 122 training courses (in-house and external) to strengthen their
operational and management skills. Further in 1994, IDBE signed a contract with IBM to provide
new computers for the head office and branches as well as training to modernize the management
information systems. Further, under the Project, EIDDC has carried out many training programs
especially for SSIs in different fields.
13.   In spite of significant progress made in institution building, IDBE remains a weak institution.
There is room for upgrading the operations of IDBE by improving its organization and staffing and its
skills in appraisal, supervision and follow-up. It has difficulties in retaining trained and skilled staff
due to low remuneration. This problem is being tackled by offering higher bonus payments.
Further, its legal framework imposes severe constraints in organizational structure, appointments of
senior staff and board members, and offer of competitive salary scales. The Government should
allow increased autonomy to IDBE in its operation by classifying it as a Law 43 institution and
allowing private participation in it. IDBE should also develop a long-term strategy taking into
account: (i) diversification possibilities; (ii) reducing dependence on government and multilateral
institutions for financial resources while adopting a broader approach to resource mobilization; (iii)
improving the structure, policies and organization; (iv) clearly defining the products and services it



Implementation Completion Report                                                      s
offers; (v) making concerted efforts for investment promotion; and, (vi) reducing arrears by
intensifying efforts for collection possibly through factoring.
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
14.   The Project was to be carried out over a three-year period (1985-87), on the assumption that
the loan would become effective sometime in 1984 following the Board approval in June that year.
However, the loan did not become effective until August 1987 because of reasons explained in para 3.
Faced with declining loan demand and increasing access to funds from non-Bank sources at cheaper
terms, IDBE delayed the loan effectiveness while seeking amendments to the stringent limitations on
the use of Bank funds. From the date the loan actually became effective, it took nearly seven years
for the Project to be completed (in mid-1994). It was not able to fully meet its objectives. Under the
first component of the Project, only about 50 percent of the US$168.1 million of the loan portion
allocated to IDBE was utilized. Over a 15-month period from January 1991 to April 1992, IDBE was
not able to make loan commitments because the Bank did not approve the extension of the date for
loan comnnitmnent from December 31 1990 until satisfactory agreements were reached on the final
revision of the onlending terms which the Bank considered to be out of line with market conditions
following financial sector reforms initiated in early 1991 under SAL. Finally, satisfactory revision
(third revision) was agreed in April 1992, and the terminal date for loan commitments was extended
(second extension) to December 31, 1992, and the Closing Date was extended to June 30, 1994
(second extension).
15.   As for the implementation of the second part of the Project -- the financing of the technical
assistance program for SSIs through EIDDC-- it also experienced delays partly because of the delay in
the loan effectiveness and partly because of inadequate availability of local currency funds from the
Government and other sources to supplement the foreign exchange funds from the Bank loan as
explained earlier. As noted, of the US$1.5 million earmarked for EIDDC, approximately US$0.5
million was utilized.
Currency of Lending and Onlending Rates
16.    The SAR did not adequately address the difficulties inherent in attempting to successfully
price and market Bank funds in the distorted financial monetary enviromnent in Egypt at the time of
the Bank loan. IDBE was to onlend only in foreign currency (FC) terms, with the sub-borrowers
bearing the foreign exchange risk between the US$ and the Egyptian Pound and making debt service
on their subloans at the highest exchange rate between the Egyptian Pound and the US$ declared by
CBE at the time of repayment. At a time when the inflation was on the rise and the risk of
devaluation of the Egyptian Pound was high, there was not much demand for FC loans at fixed rates.
To reflect the real cost of capital, the onlending rate on FC loans was stipulated in the Loan
documents that it would not be less than 14 percent (including a spread of 3.6 percent for IDBE to
meet its intermediation costs and provide 0.4 percent to EIDDC to meet part of its operating cost of
technical assistance to SSIs; and one percentage spread for the Government for bearing the interest
rate risk foreign exchange risk between US$ and the pool currencies of disbursement). The onlending
rate of 14 percent for foreign currency loans fixed during negotiations was based an estimate of the
cost of capital. At the time of appraisal, the foreign currency (FC) rates for commercial funds in
Egypt were set by market forces and were generally at a par with Eurocurrency rates, while interest
rates were established for all local currency (LC) lending operations by CBE. The LC lending rate to



6                                                         Implementation Conpletion Report
industry was about 13 percent in 1984, at the time the Bank loan was approved. SMIs preferred to
borrow in local currency at 13 percent to purchase foreign exchange from the free market rather than
borrow in FC at a fixed rate of 14 percent. There were strong indications that the demand from
customers was virtually non-existent for loans in FC. Therefore, IDBE felt that the onlending terms
and conditions for the Bank loan needed to be revised. It also felt that the stipulation that at least 50
percent of the loan funds be made available for SSIs from 1987 onwards was not achievable and,
therefore, wanted to reduce the percentage to 40 percent. IDBE also wanted to revise the limits on
individual loans to SMIs taking into consideration the inflationary situation.
17.   The discussions on revising the onlending terms and conditions proceeded over three years
before they were revised on August 18, 1987 when the loan became effective. According to the
revised loan agreement, IDBE was given the option of either lending in LC terms or FC terms. For
loans in FC terms, the interest rate was to be 13.5 percent and for loans in LC terms, the rate was to
include a premium of 9 percentage points for the GOE to bear all the interest rate and foreign
exchange risks. This premium resulted in an onlending rate of 20.25 percent in 1987. At this high
rate, it was soon found that the demand for LC loans was limited. Therefore, the Bank agreed with
IDBE and GOE to reduce the spread for the Government from 9 percent to 6.35 percent on LC
denominated loans. At that time, it was also agreed that the exchange rate to be used in obtaining
value of LE denominated subloans would be based on the rate of exchange for the dollar in terms of
LE declared by CBE for the purpose of effecting foreign currency transactions, on the respective
dates of sub-loan disbursements (instead of the respective dates of loan commitment as was agreed in
May 1986). The June 1989 amendments also allowed IDBE to make loans for permanent working
capital (up to US$300,000 per enterprise) to supplement the loans for capital investment.
18.    As the use of Bank funds was still slow after the amendment of terms in 1989, the Bank felt
that there was need for further revision of onlending rates and the Bank made an agreement on this
issue with GOE and IDBE a condition for extending the terminal date for loan commitment beyond
December 31, 1989. However, there was no agreement on further revision of the onlending terms
until April 6, 1992. Under the revisions, it was agreed that the onlending interest rate on LC
denominated loans shall be equal to or higher than a minimum interest rate determined on a fixed or
variable basis, based on the following approach: (i) for subloans approved on the basis of fixed
interest rate, the minimum interest rate shall be two percentage points below the discount rate of CBE
on the date of the sub-loan agreement; (ii) with respect to variable interest loans, the minimum
variable interest rate shall initially be three percentage points below the discount rate of CBE on the
date of the sub-loan agreement; and the variable rate would be adjusted semi-annually, keeping it
three percentage points less than the average of the discount rate for the four weeks preceding such
adjustment. However, no such semi-annual adjustment was to exceed 1 1/2 percentage points
increase over the preceding interest rate and, over the life of the loan, the interest rate not to exceed 6
percentage points over the initial interest rate charged. After this amendment, the disbursement of
Bank funds picked up for about nine months until the end of 1992, the terminal date for commnitments
of the Bank loan.
E. Project Sustainability
19.   As noted, of about 250 enterprises financed under the Loan, 89 percent were implemented
successfully and 11 percent faced major problems. The economic liberalization policies adopted by
the Government aim at reinstating the private sector in all areas of activity including industrial



Implementation Completion Report                                                       7
production, distribution, finance and foreign trade. The liberalization measures introduced so far
include new investment laws and changes in trade and exchange control regulations; reform of the
tariff structure; and minimization of bureaucratic controls. Care was taken under this project to
diversify the growth of SSIs away from heavily congested urban centers where production space is
cramped, unsafe and poorly laid out. Further, the problem of scarcity of skilled labor due to
emigration is less of a problem for SSIs as most of the SSI/artisan enterprises mainly use family
labor. Further, EIDDC continues to be active in providing technical assistance to SSIs for project
formulation and implementation. Under the continuing technical assistance program of EIDDC,
efforts are continuing to improve managerial skills of SSIs for maintaining better financial records,
planning and budgeting, marketing, and dealing with outside institutions. GOE is now considering
the formulation of a long-term strategy for the development of the SMI sector with particular
reference to: (i) developing linkages by promoting subcontracting arrangements between large and
small enterprises; (ii) expanding financing (particularly from commnercial banks) for fixed investment
and working capital; (iii) developing industrial estates and/or other infrastructure facilities away from
congested urban centers; and, (iv) strengthening the role of EIDDC in providing extension services
and other types of technical assistance such as training and provision of latest technical information.
F. Bank Performance
20.   The Bank has played an important role in institution building with respect to IDBE as a
leading development bank to provide term financing to the private sector, focusing on the SMI sector.
The Bank has helped under the Project to: (i) improve internal policies and procedures; (ii) strengthen
its operational and financial planning systems; (iii) develop and implement a modern management
information system; (iv) improve its project appraisal and supervision capability; and, (v) enhance the
financial position of IDBE through prudent financial leverage.
21.   The Project designed by the Bank with the help of IDBE staff proved to be too ambitious.
The Bank underestimated the complexity of DFI operation in a distorted financial market with
multiple fixed interest rates and multiple exchange rates. The terms and conditions stipulated in the
agreements for onlending Bank funds to clients proved too onerous especially when the demand for
foreign exchange loans declined owing to high risks associated with rising inflation, higher interest
rates, and devaluation. It took more than three years for making the loan effective for lack of
agreement on revising the onlending terms and conditions. This period could have been shortened by
the Bank by forming a joint team of the Bank and IDBE to work out details of the revisions needed.
The Bank could have provided IDBE more flexibility in determining the onlending rates and
conditions, taking into account the actual market conditions in Egypt. Further, the Bank supervision
efforts were uneven over the years. This was not conducive to dealing effectively with the project
problems.
G. Borrower Performance
22.   GOE, the Borrower, found it difficult to get the Project implemented by IDBE because of the
distorted interest and exchange rate regimes. The much-needed policy reforms came rather late in the
project cycle. Following the reforms under SAL in early 1991, things began to improve and the pace
of the use of Bank funds quickened somewhat. Further, as GOE was able to secure funds for IDBE
on soft terms from the African Development Bank (ADB), the Saudi Fund, the European Investment
Bank (EIB), German KfW, and the Islamic Development Bank during 1985-91, the use of Bank funds



8                                                           Implementation Completion Report
was affected. It was the success of GOE in mobilizing significant funds from other foreign sources at
soft terms that dampened the use of Bank funds which carried harder terms and conditions. IDBE
was slow in suggesting changes in the onlending terms and conditions, when there were clear
indications that the demand for foreign currency denominated loans would be very low in the
distorted financial and foreign exchange markets in Egypt. IDBE should have been more forthcoming
in suggesting revisions for the onlending terms and conditions. IDBE was, however, successful in
improving its financial position by reducing arrears and also improving its financial situation, partly
because of increased equity contribution by the Governrment (the main shareholder). However, IDBE
still remains a weak institution with respect to management and organization.
23.   The operation of EIDDC, one of the beneficiaries under the Project, was constrained by the
lack of GOE budget allocation of adequate local currency funds to supplement the foreign currency
funds from the Bank loan. As a result, EIDDC was not fully effective in providing technical
assistance to SSIs.
H. Assessment of Outcome
24.   The performance indicators for Ln. 2458-EGT were: (i) the utilization of funds; (ii) schedule
for loan utilization; (iii) the number of sub-projects financed in the SMI sector; (iv) the number of
sub-projects which were successful; (v) the number of projects which proved to be problem projects;
and, (vi) effectiveness of the technical assistance program for SSIs. As noted, only about 50 percent
of the loan amount was used. The Project was delayed by about seven years (including about three
years taken for loan effectiveness). About 250 enterprises in the SMI sector were beneficiaries of the
loan. Of these, about 140 (56 percent of the total) were highly successful with the economic rate of
return (ERR) ranging from 25-50 percent; and 83 projects (33 percent) were successful with the ERR
between 12-24 percent. Twenty-seven projects (11 percent of the total) faced technical, managerial,
financial and/or marketing problems and are making efforts to overcome them. As for the technical
assistance programs for the SSIs, EIDDC faced managerial and financial problems (as GOE did not
make adequate local currency funds from the budget) and it was not able to meet fully the expected
goals with respect to extension services and training.
25.   The Project, even though substantially delayed, was able to improve the operation of IDBE
and this institution today is in a better shape than it was a few years ago. This is largely due to
prudent regulations introduced under SAL in early 1991 with respect to provisioning and reserves in
addition to the debt/equity limit of 9:1 stipulated under the Ln. 2458-EGT. Further, under this
Project, the systems of project appraisal and supervision, management information, and internal
controls were improved Thus, the Project had a significant impact on institution building. Further,
considering the high risk of financing SMIs, it is significant that about 89 percent of the projects
under the loan proved successful with an ERR of over 12 percent. Considering these factors, the
overall project outcome is rated partially satisfactory in spite of major delays in implementation and
use of funds. Further, it has to be noted that while IDBE was slow in utilizing the Bank loan, it was
able to make better use of funds from other sources such as Saudi Fund, EIB, IDB and ADB on terms
and conditions which were more favorable to potential borrowers.



Implementation Completion Report                                                          9
1. Future Operations
26.    The Bank Group has played an ongoing role since 1973 in the development of IDBE and its
predecessor entities. Today, IDBE is a fairly sound financial intermediary meeting a substantial part
of the requirements of the SMI sector for term financing. Under the Project, IDBE has received
assistance for institutional improvement, enabling it to perform better in its current as well as future
operations. Further, as noted, nearly 90 percent of the sub-projects under the loan have been
successful and they are expected to continue showing satisfactory performance in the future. As for
27 sub-projects (out of 250) which are problems projects, they are trying to overcome problems by
the end of this year with the help of IDBE and EIDDC. IDBE is in need of long-term funds for
enlarging its operation as the SMI sector is now expanding under the economic liberalization program
adopted by the Government. However, the Bank is not considering further lending to IDBE so long
as it remains a fully Government-owned entity. The Bank has indicated that it would be willing to
consider providing funds under an apex loan in the future if IDBE is restructured by allowing equity
participation by private investors, enabling it to function as an independent entity. This would help
IDBE reduce its dependence on the Govermnent and multilateral/bilateral donors and explore raising
resources by issuing stocks and bonds. IDBE can also become active in diversifying its operation by
not focusing only on lending but also on participating in the equity of enterprises. Currently, IDBE is
considering the privatization option and any future Bank financing depends on the Government
making progress in exercising this option. Meanwhile, IDBE is also considering the option of raising
funds by issuing bonds.
J. Key Lessons Learned
27.    Setting a competitive price for Bank funds for onlending by IDBE proved to be more difficult
than expected as a result of: (i) the multiple currency make-up of the Bank's pool of foreign funds;
(ii) the volatility of the foreign exchange markets; and, (iii) the CBE's administered multiple foreign
exchange rate and fixed interest rate regimes and the resulting complex problems that needed to be
resolved when converting loan funds to or from local currency. The Project attested to difficulties
DFI operations face in setting the right onlending terms in: (i) a tightly controlled financial market
that operated with multiple fixed exchange rates and administered interest rates; or (ii) attempts to use
the Bank funds on termis different from those of other foreign exchange operations based on the use of
either a single currency or conducted in local currency.
28.    The experience under this Project also shows that:
a.    In a country where there are widespread distortions in the interest and foreign
exchange rate regimes, DFI operations face serious problems. Those distortions
cannot be alleviated or overcome unless there are comprehensive economic reforms.
Therefore, it is advisable not to resort to DFI operations in countries where there are
widespread distortions in financial markets. If DFI operations are undertaken in
anticipation of overall reforms under SALs, financial intermediaries need to be
allowed the flexibility to make competitively priced loans under the existing market
conditions, following certain agreed guidelines but without excessive conditionalities.
b.    In the absence of prudent banking regulations, DFIs largely follow less than optimal
practices, hindering institution building goals. The Bank should give careful attention



10                                                          Inplementation Completion Report
for adopting prudent financial practices by DFIs, e.g., provisioning and building up
reserves, writing off overdue arrears, having limitation on financial leverage, etc. in
order to develop a satisfactory financial position.
c.     The success of a DFI operation depends to a significant extent on the financial
intermediary strengthening its capability for project appraisal, supervision, and follow-
up with adequate provision for training. The Bank needs to ensure that the appraisal
and supervision work of DFIs conforms to Bank standards.
d.    Concerted attention needs to be given for including representatives of DFIs in the
appraisal and supervision of projects. This participatory approach could help provide
on-the-job training to selected staff of the DFIs. Further, supervision by Bank
missions need to be regular and comprehensive to identify problems early on and find
remedies working closely with counterparts.
e.     Efforts have to be made by DFIs to reduce the turnover of trained personnel by
offering them competitive remuneration and career development prospects. DFIs
should also have the flexibility to reduce the number of redundant employees. The
government needs to enable them to adopt such practices by allowing them to operate
as autonomous entities.
f.    Critical issues which are likely to delay loan effectiveness should normally be resolved
before Board presentation of the project. Further, the Bank should not generally wait
for more than a year for the loan to become effective. If the Project Launch Mission
following loan approval finds persisting serious problems, the Bank should consider
cancelling the loan if it is not effective within a year.
g.    The Bank leverage on the overall DFI operations is only limited with respect to
onlending terms and conditions when funds are available from other sources on soft
terms. In this environment, Bank funds bearing tougher terms and conditions would
be utilized only when funds from other sources bearing softer terms are used up. If
there are clear indications that a country has access to cheaper funds from other
sources and, as a result, Bank loan funds are not likely to be utilized fully, the Bank
should agree with the Government in a timely manner on the cancellation of loan
portions unlikely to be used.
h.     To expedite the use of the Bank loan, GOE and IDBE could have allowed prospective
clients to purchase Bank loan funds at the market exchange rates. Further, it would
have been prudent to channel part of Bank loan through one or more commercial
banks with widespread branch network in addition to IDBE. This could have allowed
a wider coverage of the SSIs and faster utilization of funds.
i.    To ensure fairness in the case of procurement, the practice adopted by IDBE of
sending its representative to attend the bid opening sessions of beneficiary enterprises
proved useful.



Implementation Completion Report                                                           11
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2458-EGT)
PART II
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Loan Disbursement
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Table 8: Project costs and Bank Financing
Table 9: IDBE Financial Statements
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staffweeks
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



12                                                       Implementation Completion Report



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                          13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Not
A. Achievement of obmectives     Substantial     Partial    Negligible    Applicable
Macroeconomic                            /
policies
Sector policies                          /
Financial objectives                     /
Institutional                            /
development
Physical objectives                      /
Poverty reduction                                                  /
Gender concerns
Other social objectives                                            ,
Environmental                            /
objectives
Public sector                            /
management
Private sector                           /
development
Other
Not
Substantial    Partial    NeeliRible   Applicable
B. Project sustainability            /
Hlighly
C. Bank performance           satisfactory     Satisfactory     Deficient
Identification                           /
Preparation                                              /
Appraisal                                                /
Supervision                              /
D. Borrower performance       satisfactorv     Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                                              /
Implementation                                           /
Covenant                                                 /
compliance
Operation                                /
HigthivHih
satisfactory       Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactorv
E. Assessment of outcome                              /



14                                                                            Implementation Completion Report
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
LnlCr
Ln/Cr      Amount                                                Year of
Title             Number       US$ m                     Purpose                    Approval          Status
Devt. Industrial Bank        (412)-EGT       15     Building institutional capacity for term      1973    Completed 28 mos.
Credit I (DIB I)                                    lending to meet especially the needs of                  behind schedule
the private sector
DIB Credit 11 (DIB II)       (576)-EGT       25     Expanding institutional capacity              1975    Completed 18 mos.
for term lending to the private                      behind schedule.
sector with particular attendon to the
development of small industry.
DIB Loan I (DIB HI)         1804-EGT        40     Expanding term lending to the private         1978    Completed 3 mos.
sector, focussing on especially the small               behind schedule.
industry development
DIB Loan II (DIB IV)         1533-EGT        50     Expanding term lending especially             1980    Completed 6 mos.
to private sector with particular                    behind schedule.
attention to small industry
DIB Loan m1 (DIB V)          2074-EGT       120     Expanding term lending especially             1981    Completed 24 mos.
to private sector with particular attention             behind schedule.
to small industry
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle               |             Date Planned                            Date Actual
Identification                                                                                09/83
Preparation                                                                              11102183-12104184
Appraisal                                                                                0126/84-2/15/84
Negotations                                                                                 05/15/84
Board Presentaton                                                                            06/28/84
Signing                                                                                     04/04/86
Effectiveness                                                                               08/19/87
Project Completion                                   12/31/91                               06/15/94
Loan Closing                                         06/30/92                               06/30/94



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                   15
Table 4: Loan Disbursement
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ Million)
|   June      June 1986 [ June 1987   June 1988 J June 1989   June 1990 | June 1991   June 1992   June 1993   June 1994 J Sept 1994
1985;1
Appraisal                   0.40       20.80        65.00       112.60      114.68       162.08      169.98       170.00      170.00       170.00      170.00
Estimte
Actual                  -       =-                                6.01       12.71        31.35       49.92        63.00       75.96        86.26      86.35
Acuala as % of                          -5.30                                 8.80        19.30       29.40        37.10       44.70        50.70       50.80
Esimate                                                                             I                                    I            I 
Date of Final                                                                       July 29, 1994
Disbursemcnt
Note: Loan amount of US$75.0 million was cancelled on April 16, 1992 and US$8.65 million was cancelled subsequendy following the closing of the loan on June 30, 1994.



16                                                                              Implementation Completion Report
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated                    Actual
Loan effectiveness                                              08/31/84                    08/19/87
Start receiving proposals                                       11/01/84                    10/30/87
for sub-projects
Terminal date for sub-loan                                      06/30/91                    12/31/92
commitments
Overall project implementation                                     84                          114
period (months)
Loan closing                                                    06/30/92                    06/30/94
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated                                Actual
Capacity utilization for subprojects at                   70                                     50-75
completion (%)



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                          17
Table 7: Studies Included In Project
Purpose as Defined at
Study                                     Appraisal/Redeflned                    Statw                Inpact of Study
Market Study              The Small-Scale Industries & Training              Partly         Identification of new
Dept. (SSITD) of EIDDC to carry out               carried out     SMI opportunities.
industry outlook surveys, feasibility studies,
market surveys, and identification of new
SMI opportunities
Study of Selected         EIDDC to hire short-term consultants to            Partly          Helped resolve somne
Industries                study specific industry-related problems in        carried out     industry-specific problems.
industries such as footwear, leather, plastic
products, food products, ready-made
garments, ceramics, etc.



18                                                                       Implementation Completion Report
Table 8: Project Costs and Bank Flnancng
(LE)
Page I of 6
IBRD Amount
Beneficiaries                                           Financing                    Project Costs
Food Industries Dev.                                            3,166,344.08                    10,625,000
Menapharmi Company Fo.                                          3,201,136.18                    14,540,000
The Egyptian Development                                        2,902,724.73                     7,226,000
Technotex Co. for Tex.                                          1,770,828.32                    71,173,500
The Egyptian Co. For Textiles                                   3,299,933.28                    31,622,000
Goldentex Wool Co.                                              2,396,257.39                    16,561,000
Gueneidy Co.                                                    1,682,194.61                    13,752,200
Amoun Pharmaceutical                                            3,214,762.73                    22,710,000
El Araby Electric Co.                                           3,969,655.99                    24,110,000
Makarem Industrial                                              3,430,020.77                    23,070,000
Goldentex Wool Co.                                              2,080,444.64                    10,000,000
Mitkees Paper                                                     150,301.88                     5,641,000
Nadeen Print Zen El.                                              924,883.13                     2,422,000
Twin Blade Razor                                                  651,237.22                     2,283,000
Aly Fakhry Abdeen                                                 954,406.66                     1,543,000
El Sigini Company                                                 363,052.55                     4,035,000
Sherin Kamel Ibrahim                                               25,810.00                        87,400
Ulice Factory                                                      54,422.09                        54,422
Ind. Co. for Marble                                               660,132.92                     2,211,000
Bishara Textile Manu.                                           1,030,702.75                     3,342,000
Havana Knitting Factory                                           103,450.20                       431,989
Happy Girl Factory                                                103,732.08                       606,059
Abdallah Salam & Co.                                              142,492.39                       476,691
Elias Modem Publish.                                              126,525.50                       381,627
Badawi Factory                                                     38,200.00                       124,873
El-Amal Medical Supp.                                             196,562.29                       367,800
Hesham Youssef                                                    66,039.76                        263,718
Maher Monit & Co.                                                  99,300.00                       150,000
Sayed Hassan Hawash                                               202,288.01                     1,266,600
Tanis Co.                                                         465,656.59                     4,936,000
Awad Awad Aly & Co.                                               685,783.76                     1,486,000
Misr Co. for Aromatics                                            115,885.20                     1,860,300
Afri Medical Co.                                                  435,779.65                     1,650,000
Abu-Simble Co. for Dyeing                                         442,838.31                     1,366.000
Secre Misr Fatah                                                  144,280.74                     1,000,000
Soc. Industrielle Co.                                             150,537.04                     1,480,000
Elamira Factory                                                    69,887.00                       288,500
Refai Ahmed Abo                                                   640,924.38                     2,154,000
M. Salah Mohamed Ibrahim                                           23,359.03                        98,239
Ulice Factory                                                     22,150.00                        100,000



Implementation Completion Report                                                                            19
Page 2 of 6
EBRD)
Benericiaries                                           Finning                      Project Costs
Hamdy Hassan Mahmoud                                               39,841.72                       242,000
El-Zeitoun Mill                                                   577,642.73                      2,150,000
El Edissy Tours Comp.                                             136,000.00                       883,758
El Nahdah El Hadissa                                              184,107.21                       514,300
Prestige Limited                                                   22,584.21                        63,000
Fawzy Hassan Ahmed                                                 30,502.39                        99,230
Havana Knitting Factory                                            65,074.84                       326,612
Industry & Trade 1                                                197,451.56                      1,292,000
Bella Donna Co.                                                    80,108.40                       300,000
Maf Co. for Dyeing                                              1,064,240.72                     4,369,000
Dahab for Biscuits                                                220,557.94                       753,000
Concord Press Eng.                                                120,526.41                       500,000
The Egyptian Co. for Textiles                                      53,683.29                       200,000
Riad Floating Hotels                                              178,743.07                      2,032,882
Hussein Ibrahim M.A.                                               21,230.25                        31,400
Sphinx Commercial                                                 230,655.38                       927,000
Mohamed El-Tabi                                                    69,319.51                       358,000
Mohamed Ahmed Hessie                                              220,789.98                       909,168
Aly Mostafa Kosba                                                  83,843.59                       212,000
Engineering Co. Moham.                                             65,538.12                       124,100
Amer Press Awatef El.                                             109,810.43                       327,748
Touristic Investment                                              656,190.21                      9,317,000
El Salam Ribbon                                                    22,934.88                       106,603
Misr El Salam Tricot                                               76,825.20                       232,900
El-Mahaba Plastic Factory                                          31,809.68                       506,000
Bavaria Company                                                    35,037.74                      1,985,000
Egypt Electric Insul.                                             224,657.39                       986,000
Adel Abdou Soliman                                                415,536.66                      1,020,000
The Egyptian Yarns                                              1,527,787.90                     14,788,000
Mahmoud Salama                                                  1,320,337.64                      3,582,000
Nagy Tricot                                                       104,496.92                      1,296,955
El Shafy Clay Bricks                                              744,741.10                     2,079,339
The General Company                                               458,760.29                      1,424,000
Dr. Yehia Zaki Halim                                               66,154.23                       204,000
Alexandria Limnousine                                              50,785.19                     2,268,000
El Amen Co. for Plastics                                          191,170.15                       314,700
Salam Factory for Plastics                                         27,700.83                       200,000
Fakhoury Industrial                                                54,531.93                       148,000
Ragheb M.N. El Itrib                                              525,409.33                      1,186,000
The Engineering Works                                              80,921.10                       105,000
Hefny Tawfik Atwan                                                 53,771.73                       214,500
El Namm for Printing                                               71,311.12                       266,050
El Amal for Sewing                                                 29,046.01                       133,000
Bishara Textile Mamnucturing                                      137,249.78                      1,262,900



20                                                                        Implementation Completion Report
Page 3 of 6
IBRD
Beneficiaries                                            Financing                    Project Costs
El Nahdah El Hadissa                                               26,053.21                         90,000
Macca Plastic Company                                              173,936.57                      1,085,000
El Nasr Facotry                                                    92,318.00                        856,000
El Arnab For Textile                                               149,687.52                       491,400
Celivia for Babies                                                  58,761.82                       235,145
Cairo Electronics Co.                                               10,025.23                       592,300
El Sigini Company                                                 283,206.80                        108,600
Mohauned Mohanmmed El                                              22,004.88                         75,699
Menoufeya Blanket                                                 746,397.61                      2,090,000
El Amana Factory                                                   157,052.40                       576,000
Happy Factory                                                      85,468.85                        301,300
Gueneidy Co. for Ind.                                             398,715.89                      2,619,700
Tricot Misr Co.                                                    111,336.27                       427,954
El-Tabakh Trading                                                 326,404.46                       1,102,000
Norwood Production                                                 89,262.00                        341,954
Awad Co. for Industrial                                           473,156.28                       1,486,000
Mansour Brothers                                                   141,579.27                       470,176
Rubblast                                                          283,134.00                      4,788,000
Ahmed Mohamed Ahmed                                                 19,943.05                        75,933
El-Nisr Factory                                                     6,554.78                         24,900
Engineering Co.                                                    83,463.32                        397,500
El Sigini Co. For Dyeing                                          920,002.46                       3,615,000
Youssry Hassan                                                    914,516.68                        214,000
Jakine Fathi Iskand                                                 69,101.29                       262,000
Plastic Co.                                                        149,400.00                       586,000
Abdo United Plastics                                              264,840.98                        870,000
Al Marwa Olive Oil                                                209,380.02                       1,806,000
Arab Ceramic Co.                                                  572,510.47                      2,830,000
Ahmed Shoukry El Giz                                               171,662.63                       574,695
Samir Aziz Abo El Ma.                                              77,926.64                         23,544
Fakhoury Industrial                                               342,070.90                      7,379,000
Khaled Delux Factory                                               75,698.81                        254,789
Technopol Egypt                                                    29,053.27                        312,000
Hosam El Din Abo                                                   103,079.21                       355,900
Abdel Fattah Abdel                                                 100,000.00                       395,700
Ceramica Cleopatra                                               1,417,704.42                     4,510,200
Mostafa Aly Farage Co.                                            645,697.84                       5,764,000
El Motaheda                                                        131,578.95                       521,300
Modem Co.                                                         568,349.36                      2,949,000
Middle Delta                                                       150,000.00                       679,500
African Press Offset                                               68,413.64                        279,888
Arab Co. for Modern                                                189,874.16                      1,365,778
Modern Industrial                                                  132,788.63                       450,000
Sobhey Dimetry Sheno                                               96,149.00                        274,000



Implementation Completion Report                                                                            21
Page 4 of 6
IBRD
Beneficiaries                                           Financing                    Project Costs
Cairo Electronics Co.                                             30,045.45                        592,300
Post Said Vegetables                                              837,527.56                     4.264,000
El Nada Weaving                                                   94,600.00                        304,000
Samir Fhafik Escanda                                              133,423.36                       718,435
El Mahandsin Factory                                              117,200.00                       938,000
Ahmed Ahmed and Ahmed                                             142,551.96                      1,005,000
M. Sheta Weaving Co.                                               56,854.81                       263,355
Bekhit Gad Bekhit Co.                                              80,448.79                       436,000
Assouad Freres                                                    461,173.90                     2,660,000
Gaidex For Industry                                               950,308.96                     5,434,000
Hesham Ibrahim                                                    110,834.32                       459,677
Allweiler Farid Co.                                               328,215.56                      1,932,000
El Amab Co.                                                        83,333.33                       454,800
Kamal Mohamed El Sam                                              908,884.07                     4,801,000
Emad Shory Habib                                                  27,761.66                         64,359
Abo-EI Rahman Abd-EI                                              95,954.02                        288,500
Magdy Shaker Yassa                                                 85,330.45                       332,700
Emi Plastic Co.                                                   234,792.62                       890,470
Al Engazat Co.                                                  1,429,812.94                    10,391,000
El Salam Ribbon                                                    52,101.37                       319,000
Aswad Akhowan                                                      95,254.24                       427,338
El-Dahan Metals                                                   161,086.80                       766,488
Mech. Eng. Co.                                                     65,590.97                       320,000
Maryo Printers Co.                                                150,543.56                       300,000
Nat. Med. Ind.                                                    123,638.47                      1,276,955
Electro Motive Sabry                                               81,038.65                       436,400
Demela International                                            3,153,189.70                     3,817,000
Tulip House                                                        69,012.13                       300,000
Makram Leather Prod.                                               86,371.72                       839,000
Food Industries Co.                                               510,332.55                     3,053,000
Dyeing, Printing, Finishing                                       300,000.00                     3,782,000
Mohamed Abdel Salan                                               104,419.20                       506,000
New Techno Plastics                                                19,298.59                       115,778
Marcail Ranizy Hikhai                                             160,458.91                       727,000
Marcail Ramzy Hikhai                                               45,561.20                       222,450
Cleopatra Plastic                                                  38,456.82                       211,000
Hesham Ibrahim                                                     16,530.27                       400,000
Fathia Seddik Abdel                                               49,131.18                        287,000
Prahimtico                                                         47,181.80                       701,000



22                                                                         Implementation Completion Report
Page 5 of 6
IBRD
Beneflidaries                                            Financing                     Project Costs
Mohamed Said Mohamed                                                40,010.96                         100,000
Egyptian Food Indust.                                              500,472.31                       7,226,000
Mario Printext Co.                                                  151,282.05                        508,000
Conti Press                                                        233,923.27                       2,005,600
Eng. Rafat Anwar Fah                                                64,352.51                         464,000
Abdel Abd El-Hady                                                   124,893.03                        274,000
El Amal Factory                                                     60,000.00                         367,800
El Mahaba Plastic                                                   33,000.00                         841,000
Miami Co.                                                           124,155.95                      1,588,000
Mahmoud El-Sayed                                                    134,768.65                     93,934,000
Tech/Graphic House                                                   59,281.84                        344,400
Amound Pharmaceutica                                               495,827.20                       5,188,000
Tawakol Co.                                                        233,784.86                       1,635,000
Egyptian Lebanese                                                  661,757.07                      -4,426,000
United for Printing                                                531,080.62                            N/A
Kamal Mohamed El                                                   441,542.40                       2,706,000
Sphinx Co.                                                          125,223.95                        671,000
Awny Plastic                                                       156,241 .55                        806,500
Sarnir Monir                                                       629,449.86                       3,869,000
Makarem Textile Ind.                                                181,416.42                      4,722,000
Farouk Ibrahim                                                     436,211.79                            N/A
Graphic Press                                                       61,021.50                         301,000
El Kady Co.                                                         26,853.09                         145,440
Aluminum Ladders                                                    36,323.80                         162,700
Naguib Agaiby Mousa                                                236,401.02                         991,000
El Nisrh Co.                                                       347,960.09                       1,821,000
Hussein Ahmed Ali                                                   305,354.02                           N/A
El Shark                                                           314,271.31                       1,350,000
Hassan Zaki Hassan                                                  163,966.02                        785,000
Rafaat Wadih                                                        44,778.68                            N/A
Mohamed El Girneizy                                                  15,374.78                        161,895
Happy Shoes Mervat                                                  184,204.61                      2,820,000
Kent Port Said                                                      63,867.32                            N/A
El Ansr                                                             61,646.85                         247,000
Modem Co.                                                          455,456.99                       2,336,000
Maf                                                                 802,506.64                     13,016,548
Egt. Co. Ind. & Trade                                               36,123.87                          38,817



Implementation Completion Report                                                                            23
Page 6 of 6
IBRD
Beneficiaries                                           Financing                    Project Costs
Nabeel Fissikh                                                   555,913.43                      3,118,000
Atelier Rossan                                                    30,714.84                       11,000
Abdel Wahab Sharkawt                                              560,100.00                     2,732,000
Samaha Plastics                                                   70,108.23                        431,000
Markony Hanna                                                     116,322.66                       506,000
El Zeitoun                                                        174,550.01                       242,000
El Sawasy                                                         146,621.13                       255,000
Style Press Magdy                                                 75,173.67                        387,000
Goldentex Spinning                                                63,430.61                        491,000
Gaid Tex                                                         623,353.82                      3,586,000
The Egyptian Co.                                                  300,015.53                     1,500,000
Gueneidy                                                          309,543.66                     3,433,000
Bavarian Company                                                  209,124.64                       244,000
The Egyptian Carpet                                               232,797.93                          N/A
Ceramica Cleopatra                                                298,667.28                     1,027,800
Technopol, Egypt                                                  20,772.10                        170,000
Ibrahim Abd. El Aziz                                               5,576.00                         80,000
Bishara Textile Manufacturing                                     71,946.90                      1,262,900
The Egyptian America                                              317,769.84                     1,450,000
Anwar Mohamed Tawfik                                              528,000.11                     1,450,000
Arab Ceramic Company                                              326,839.11                     1,250,000
Makarem Textile Industiy                                          326,905.78                       915,000
Goldentex Wool Co.                                                297,580.00                     1,350,000
National Co.                                                      233,845.92                     1,050,000
Egyptian Sanitary                                                 77,345.88                        485,000
Food Industries Dev.                                              294,516.00                       950,000
Mohamed Amin Abdel                                                 79,774.99                     1,301,607
Aco Pharma                                                        300,000.00                    24,139,000
Fattah Hamza Goudi                                                 73,646.43                       270,057



24                                                                          Implementation Completion Report
Table 9: IDBE Financial Statements
lYear Ended June 30            FY83 /a       FY90    |   FY91         FY92    i   FY93         FY94
A. BALANCE SHEET
ASSETS
Current Assets                      13.7         34.9        99.4        111.7         60.0        63.4
Loans and Investments              278.5       1130.6      1203.8       1294.0       1424.3      1474.8
Fixed & Other Assets                18.9         13.5        99.9        270.2        380.7       194.6
TotalAssets                        311.1       1179.0      1403.1       1675.9       1865.0      1732.8
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Liabilities
Deposits                            20.2         47.7        52.9         92.3        107.8       177.8
Due to Banks                        98.6        346.6       477.0        501.0        671.9       502.0
Foreign Loans                      132.3        360.2       336.4        468.2        478.9       459.2
Other Liab.                         27.8        353.1       382.7        460.3        451.6       438.9
Subtotal                           278.9       1107.6      1249.0       1521.8       1710.2      1577.9
Equtty
Paid-up Capital                     30.0         65.0       146.2        146.2        146.2       146.2
Reserves                             2.2          6.3         7.9          7.9          8.7         8.7
Subtotal                            32.2         71.3       154.1        154.1        154.9       154.9
[Total Liab. & Equity               311.1       1178.91     1403.1       1675.9      1865.1       1732.8
B. INCOME STATEMENT          _                        _
Income
Interest on:
Foreign Currency Loans              14.4         65.5        65.4         55.3         77.2        85.1
Local Currency Loans                21.2         56.9        65.4         50.0         81.7        89.7
Deposits with Banks                  0.5          2.1         2.2          7.8          3.6         1.8
Subtotal                            36.1        124.5       133.0        113.1        162.5       176.6
Commission & Other
Income                               3.7         15.2        19.4         22.7        21.1         31.2
Total Income                        39.8        139.7       152.4        135.8        183.6       207.8
Expenses
Borrowing Interest on:
Central Bank loans                   8.4          5.6         9.7         15.1         13.0        20.5
Foreign Currency Loans               8.9         36.9        37.6         42.1         47.0        47.2
Other                                1.0         26.1        33.7         56.0         79.9        80.7
Subtotal                            18.3         68.6        81.0        113.2        139.9       148.4
Salaries & Wages                N/A               4.7         5.2          5.7          7.0         8.2
Other Operating Costs           N/A               5.5         6.8          7.6         17.4        16.6
Subtotal                            12.8         10.2        12.0         13.3         24.4        24.8
Total Expenses                      31.1         78.8        93.0        126.5        164.3       173.2
Operating Income                     8.7         60.9        59.4          9.3         19.3        34.6
Taxes                                5.7         59.8        58.6         49.7          7.0        19.6
NETaINCOME13.0                                    i.4         0.8        -40.41        12.3        15.01
/a Year of appraisal



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                                     25
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement:                     Loan Agreement
Section:                       1.02 (b)
Covenant Type:                 9
Status:                        C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:       Definition of SMI as having fixed assets, excluding land and buildings, valued at LE 2.75 mill (in 1983
prices) to be reviewed periodically. Amendments of June 1989 set this value at LE 10.7 mill. (in 1989
prices) subject to periodic review.
Comrnents:                     No change since June 1989.
... ..............................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:                     Loan Agreement
Section:                       2.04
Covenant Type:                 13
Status:                        CD
Original Fulfillment Date:     06/30/92
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:       Loan closing date extended (by telex of April 16, 1992) to June 30, 1994.
Comments:                      This was the final extension of the loan closing date.
.................................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:                     Loan Agreement
Section:                       3.02 (a) (iv)
Covenant Type:                 3
Status:                        C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:       This covenant not in original LA. Amendments of June 1989 stated that repayment from IDBE to GOE on
account of subloans denominated in local currency would be at an interest rate equal to the World Bank rate
plus a fee of 6.35 % per annum to cover the foreign exchange risk.
Comments:                      Amendments of 4/92 stated repayment from IDBE to GOE on subloans denominated in local currency shall
be at annual rate lower by 3.5 percentage points than minimum annual interest rate fixed or variable refer.
to in PA para (a) (ii) (b) of Sec. 2.05.
...................................... ...........................................................................................................................................
Agreement:                     Loan Agreement
Section:                       3.02 (a) (v)
Covenant Type:                 9
Status:                        C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:       Originally Section 3.02 (a) (iv). Government, IDBE and Bank shall undertake quarterly review of subloan
terms and conditions to detennine if adjustments thereto are necessary to ensure continued competitiveness
of Bank funds with other foreign exchange credit.
Comments:                      The last revision was made with effect from April 16, 1992.
.................................... .............................................................................................................................................
Agreement:                     Loan Agreement
Section:                       3.03
Covenant Type:                 5
Status:                        CP
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:       EIDDC to employ consultants to help implement Part B of Project (i.e., TA to EIDDC and to SMIs
through EIDDC's SSI Directorate).
Comments:                      This component was cancelled in the mid-course due to lack of local currency funds and the impending
privatization of EIDDC.



26                                                                                        Implementation Completion Report
Agreement:                     Loan Agreement
Section:                       Section 3.04(c)
Covenant Type:                 12
Status:                        CP
Original Fulfillment Date:     06/30/86
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:       EIDDC/SSI Directorate to agree with IDBE arrangements regulating use of funds eamiarked for use in TA
program and collected from sub-borrowers.
Comments:                      IDBE continues to be reluctant to pass on to EIDDC the interest surcharge of 0.4%  due to a dispute on
outstanding arrears of the latter. The EIDDC-TA component was cancelled in mid-course.
.................................. ...............................................................................................................................................
Agreement:                     Loan Agreement
Section:                       4.02(a), (b)
Covenant Type:                 1
Status:                        CP
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:       (a) EIDDC to keep separate accounts for TA program: (b) Have accounts audited and submitted to Bank no
later than 9 months after end of fiscal year.
Comments:                      EIDDC-TA component was cancelled in mid-course.
.................................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:                     Loan Agreement
Section:                       4.03(a)
Covenant Type:                 12
Status:                        CP
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:       Borrower to (a) formulate a policy to promote SSI, and (b) inidate measures to implement new policy by
12/31/89.
Comments:                      The Government initiated reform measures in 1991 to liberalize the economy and all sectors of industry.
.................................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:                     Project Agreement
Section:                       1.01 (j)
Covenant Type:                 9
Status:                        C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:       SSI originally defined as investment enterprise whose fixed assets excluding land and buildings were valued
(in 1983 prices) at LE 420,000 to be reviewed periodically. Amendments of June 1989 increased this limit
to LE 1.4 million (in 1989 prices) to be reviewed periodically.
Comments:                      No change since June 1989.
...........I...................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:                     Project Agreement
Section:                       1.01 (k)
Covenant Type:                 9
Status:                        C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:       Very small SSI originally defined as that SSI whose fixed assets excluding land and buildings are valued at
LE 210,000 (in 1983 prices) to be periodically reviewed. Amendments of June 1989 changed this value to
LE 0.7 million (in 1989 prices) subject tu periodic review.
Comments:                      No change since June 1989.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                                                    27
................................................................................................................................ I.................................................
Agreement:                         Project Agreement
Section:                           2.02(b)(i)
Covenant Type:                     3
Status:                            C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:           Originally IDBE was to provide 70%  of Bank loan to investment enterprises qualifying as SMIs. June 1989
amendments reduced this to 60% in light of decline in demand for term credit.
Comments:                          About 60%  of approvals from Bank loan were for SMIs.
.................................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:                         Project Agreement
Secdon:                            2.02(b)(ii)
Covenant Type:                     3
Status:                            C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:           Originally, IDBE subloan was not to exceed the equivalent of US$6.0 million to any one project. June
1989 amendments increased this to US$6.6 million.
Comments:                          No change since June 1989.
.................................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:                         Project Agreement
Section:                           2.02(c)
Covenant Type:                     3
Status:                            C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:           Originally the free limit for subloan was not to exceed US$1.25 mill. Amendments of June 1989 increased
the free limit to US$1.675 million.
Comments:                          No change since June 1989.
.................................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:                         Project Agreement
Secdon:                            2.04
Covenant Type:                     13
Status:                            CD
Original Fulfillment Date:         12/31/89
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:           Originally para 2.03(c). Revised terminal date for subloan application was Dec. 31, 1992.
Comments:                          Revised loan amount was not fully committed by Dec. 1992.
................................I..................... .............-..........  ......I ......... .......... ........ ........... ........................ ........  ..........
Agreement:                         Project Agreement
Section:                           2.05(a)(i)
Covenant Type:                     5
Status:                            C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:           According to June 1989 amendments, IDBE was to take steps to protect itself against foreign exchange risks
applicable to subloans denominated in foreign currencies.
Comments:                          There were no subloans denominated in foreign currencies.
.................................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:                         Project Agreement
Section:                           2.05(a)(ii)(A)
Covenant Type:                     3
Status:                            C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:           Based on June 1989 amendments, the exchange rate to be used in obtaining value of LE denominated
subloans was to be based on the rate of exchange for the dollar in terms of LE declared by IDBE, for the
purpose of effecdng foreign currency transactions, on the respective dates of subloan approvals.
Comments:                          Amendments made by letter of April 16, 1992 specified that the exchange rates applicable should be those
prevailing on the respective dates of subloan disbursements.



28                                                                                                                          Implementation Completion Report
.................................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:                                 Project Agreement
Section:                                   2.05(a)(ii)(b)
Covenant Type:                             3
Status:                                    C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:                   (Amended covenant as of 4/92). For LE-denominated loans at fixed interest, the minimum onlending rate
shall be 2 percent. points below CB discount rate, and for those approved at variable interest rate, minimum
rate shall be initially 3 percent. points below CB discount rate and would be adjusted annually with cap of
+ or - 1.5% for each adjustment and cap of + or - 6% during the subloan duration.
Comments:                                  The variable interest rate lending, a new  option, was not utilized by IDBE  clients.
.................................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:                                 Project Agreement
Section:                                   2.06
Covenant Type:                             2
Status:                                    C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description  of Covenant:                  IDBE  shall calculate an EROR  for all projects submitted to it for financing that have an estimated cost of
more than LE 0.8 million each, and shall require an EROR of at least 12%.
Comments:                                  The limit of LE 0.8 million adjusted upward to LE 2.0 million in June 1989.
.................................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:                                 Project Agreement
Section:                                   2.07(a),(b)
Covenant Type:                             3
Status:                                    C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:                   Not less than 45%   of IDBE's approval shall be for SSIs, of which at least 20%   should be for very small
SSIs.
Comments:                                  IDBE  has satisfied this condition.
................................................................................................................................................... ..............................
Agreement:                                 Project Agreement
Section:                                   2.08(a)
Covenant Type:                             12
Status:                                    CP
Original Fulfillment Date:                 06/30/86
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:                   IDBE  to establish the TA  account and agree with EIDDC  on regulations for its use in support of SMI
assistance activities.
Comments:                                  See LA 3.04(c) above.
.................................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:                                 Project Agreement
Secdon:                                    3.02(a)
Covenant Type:                             9
Status:                                    C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:                   IDBE  to furnish progress reports.
Comments:                                  IDBE  submitted quarterly  reports on a regular basis.
.................................................................................................................................................................................
Agreement:                                 Project Agreement
Section:                                   4.02
Covenant Type:                             I
Status:                                    C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:                   IDBE  shall have its accounts audited by independent auditors and submit report to Bank not later than nine
months after end of fiscal year.
Comments:                                  IDBE got accounts audited by independent auditors annually & submitted them to Bank but usually with
about three-month delay.
.............................................................................................................................................................................



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                          29
Agreement:                  Project Agreement
Section:                    4.03 & 4.04
Covenant Type:              2
Status:                     C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant:    IDBE shall maintain a debt/equity ratio of less than 9, and if this ratio for reasons beyond IDBE's control is
exceeded, IDBE shall take all necessary measures to bring this ratio below the limit.
Comments:                   IDBE's paid-in capital was increased to LE 146 million in June 1992. As of March 1993, the debt-to-
equity ratio was 7:1.



30                                                                                Implementation Completion Report
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There is no known incidence of non-conformance with Operational Manual Statements.



Inplementation Completion Report                                                                     31
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Weeks
Planned                   Acrual
Stage of Project Cycle          Weeks          USS         Weeks         USS
Through Appraisal                                               61.6
Appraisal - Board                                               11.5
Board- Effectiveness                                            23.6
Supervision                                                    122.6
Completion                                                      12.0 
iTomal                       I_  _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _231.3             _ _  _ _  _



32                                                                              Implementation Completion Report
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Specialized        Performance Radng
Stage of              Month/   Number   Days in    Staff Skills   Implementation    Development
of
Project Cycle          Year    Persons      Field    Represented       Status        Objectives          Types of Problems
Through Appraisal      02/84       3         75       ECN, FNA
Appraisal to Board    06/84        3          5       ECN, FNA
Board Approval to
Effecdveness        08/87       2         10       ECN, FNA           3                3        Delay in effectiveness
Supervision           09/87        5         4        ECN, FNA           3               3        Delay in implementation
06/88       5          7       ECN, FNA           3               3        Need for project restructuring
11/88       1         5          ECN              3               3        Need for project restructuring
03/89       2          3          ECN             3               3        Need for project restructuring
06/89       2         4           ECN             3               3        Need for project restructuring
03/90       2          6          ECN             3               3        Need for project restructuring
04/91       4         19          ECN             3               3        Slow fund utilization
10/92       2         5          ECN              2               2        Delay in project
04/93       2          7          ECN             2               2        Delay in project
Completion            09/94        2          6       FNA, ECN           -               2



Appendices
Appendix A Mission's Aide-Memoire
Appendix B Borrower's Contribution to ICR



34                                                        Implementation Completon Report



Implementation Completion Report                                               35
Arab Republic of Egypt
Small and Medium Industry Project (Ln. 2458-EGT)
World Bank Implementation Completion Mission
(Septenber 18 - October 6, 1994)
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank Mission consisting of Messrs. Y.T. Shetty and Nabil
Shehadeh carried out the implementation completion review of the Small and
Medium Industry Project (SM! II, Ln. 2458-EGT) from September 18 - October 6,
1994. Dr. Rouchdy Saleh, of the IBRD Resident Mission in Cairo, provided
support to the team. The mission met with officials of the Industrial
Development Bank of Egypt (IDBE) and the Industrial Design Development Center
(IDDC). A list of officials met is given in
Attachment-I. The findings of the mission are subject to review in Washington
by the Bank Management. Following this review and comments by the Borrower
(the Government), this Aide Memoire will be finalized and incorporated as an
annex to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) to be submitted to the
Board of the World Bank.
Prolect Objectives and Descrintion
2.    The main objectives of the SMI It Project were to: (i) to continue to
support national efforts (started under a previous Bank loan) to develop small
and medium industry by providing financing mainly to private sector
enterprises; (ii) generate increased employment through SMI development; (iii)
improve the efficiency of the SMI sector with the help of technical
assistance; and (iv) develop the capacity of institutions providing financial
and technical assistance (including training) for SMI in Egypt.
3.    The Project consisted of two components: (i) providing IBRD funds to the
Industrial Development Bank of Egypt (IDBE) for onlending to the SMI sector,
with special emphasis on small-scale enterprises, to help meet their foreign
exchange needs; and (ii) financing the foreign exchange cost of the on-going
technical assistance program of the Industrial Design Development Center
(IDDC) to help small-scale enterprises, begun under IBRD Loans 1533-EGT and
2074-EGT.
Financial AsRects
4.    Out of the IBRD loan of US$170 million, US$168.5 million were to be
onlent by IDBE and the remaining US$1.5 million were to finance the foreign
exchange cost of technical assistance to be provided by IDDC. Part of the
local currency costs of IDDC was to be met through an interest surcharge
(0.42%) by IDBE while onlending IBRD funds to SMIs, and the remaining local



36                                                   Implementation Completion Report
currency costs of the TA program of IDDC was to be met by the Government.
5.    The Government (the Borrower) was to provide US$168.5 million to IDBE at
an interest rate one percentage point above the IBRD lending rate to the
Government, and IDBE was to charge to sub-borrowers a minimum interest rate of
14% (including a 3.5 e maximum interest rate spread, of which 0.42t would go
to a special fund to finance part of the local currency costs of the TA
program of IDDC). The Government was to bear (i) the foreign exchange risk
between the U.S. Dollar and other currencies payable to the Bank, and (ii)
interest rate risk arising from the variable rate application to the IBRD
loan. The sub-borrowers were to carry the foreign exchange risk between the
U.S. Dollar and the Egyptian Pound. The other requirement of the IBRD loan
was that IDBE would mobilize at least US$25 million per year during 1985-87 to
meet its foreign currency resource gaps and commitments under the IBRD loan in
each year and this would be conditional to the utilization of IBRD funds. In
this regard, IDBE would make its best efforts to mobilize funds from
commercial sources to the maximum extent. Following the IBRD Board approval
of the Project, IDBE found the above conditions too stringent especially
considering the declining loan demand for investment funds because of rising
inflation and interest rates and the deepening recession in the country.  As a
result, the signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and IDBE was delayed. Finally, the subsidiary loan agreement was signed and
the IBRD loan became effective August 19, 1987, about three years after the
loan approval.
6.    Subsequently, IDBE found the IBRD loan amount (US$168.5 million) was too
large to handle considering the slack demand for loan funds because of the
recession which worsened under the initial impact of the major economic
reforms under the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) initiated July 1, 1992.
Even before SAL, IDBE had requested US$74 million from its account be
cancelled and IBRD cancelled this amount, reducing the IDBE share of Ln. 2458-
EGT to US$94.5 million. There was also a cancellation of US$1.0 million from
the loan portion of US$1.5 million allocated for the TA program of IDDC as
this organization was transferred to the Engineering Industries Holding
Company as an autonomous entity and it was not to receive support from the
Government from July 1,. 1992.  As a result, the total loan amount under Ln.
2458-EGT was reduced to US$95.0 million equivalent of which US$86.354 million
(91t) was disbursed as of mid-September 1994. Funds remaining undisbursed as
of September 30, 1994, the date for closing the IBRD account books for Ll.
2458-EGT, will be cancelled.
7.    Compared to the original loan, only 51% was utilized.  The disbursement
actually picked up when the onlending terms were modified in 1992 in the light
of market conditions, specially availability of cheaper funds from sources
such as OPEC, and financial sector reform under SAL. At the final phase, IDBE
was onlending IBRD funds at 2-3 percentage points below the discount rate of
the Central Bank (which was 14.St in September 1994) as agreed with IBRD.
Implementation
S.    Described below is the achievement of progress under each of the two



linplementation Completion Report                                             37
components of the Project:
(i)   IDBE Comnonent: IDBE has financed about 250 SMIs under the project
-- all in the private sector -- with the average loan amounting to
approximately US$350,000. About 56* of these beneficiary
enterprises are highly successful, 33t are successful (making full
debt service), 11% are partially successful (and have potential
for becoming successful but are currently classified as problem
projects). With more attention to strengthening the appraisal and
supervision capability of the project department, the success rate
of the IDBE projects could have been improved. The project
Department remains weak because of the high turnover of trained
staff due to low salary scales. IDBE is aiming, within its future
strategy, at raising the efficiency of its various departments
including the Project Department.
(ii) IDDC Component: IDDC continued to be active in providing
technical assistance to small-scale enterprises (SSEs). It has a
staff of about 520 (including 250 administration and support
staff). It has four departments: (a) Electronics Industry R & D;
(b) Mechanical Design and Development; (c) Management Consultancy;
and (d) Industrial Extension Services, using 12 mobile vans, IDDC
extension personnel visit small-scale enterprises for on-the-spot
diagnostic review and they refer serious problems to IDDC experts
in Cairo. IDDC also conducts training courses for SSEs. These
courses range from 4-5 weeks and cover priority topics such as
maintenance management, production management, cost control,
feasibility studies, procurement, etc. In 1993, IDDC carried out
60 courses for about 250 persons. In FY 1994, the number of
trainees declined to 120 mainly because of increased attention to
cost reduction by SSls under competition pressure from economic
reforms. Further the activities of IDDC are constrained by: (i)
lack of adequate vans for mobile extension teams; (ii) lack of
replacement for obsolete equipment in workshops; and (iii) high
turnover of trained personnel (15-250) due to low salaries.
IDDC Situation
9.    IDDC charges for its services.  Last year, it was able to cover 60%
(LE1.6 million) of the expenditure and the remaining 40t (LE 1.2 million) was
covered by its parent holding company.
10.   IDDC has agreed to prepare a strategic plan for its development taking
into account the increased emphasis being placed by the Government on the need
for well-planned technical assistance for the development of mull-scale
industries. The IDDC management feels that though IDDC has been made
autonomous under a public sector holding company, the Center would not be able
to achieve full cost recovery. Up to about 60* cost recovery is possible.
Effort to recover more costs is likely to lead to inadequate use of IDDC
services by SSEs.



38                                                  implementation Completion Report
11.   IDDC is now trying to secure financing under the Social Fund Project of
the World Bank. IDDC management feels that the Center can play an important
role in identifying and selecting potential entrepreneurs, training them,
allowing them to use IDDC facilities for "incubaktion", and subsequently help
them move to industrial parks with specific projects under the guidance and
supervision of IDDC.
12.   IDDC was to receive, according to the original plan, 0.4St interest
surcharge on IBRD sub-loans but, according to the management of the Center,
only a limited amount has been received (less than LE 30,000) and about LE 2.4
million is due from IDEE. IDBE has not paid it because it wants to recover
from IDDC LE 3.3 million for financing TA under two previous IBRD loans. IDDC
claims that those funds came to IDDC from the Government as grants, as
stipulated in the loan agreement. The mission has urged IDDC and IDBE to
resolve this issue amicably with the help of the Ministry of International
Cooperation and the Ministry of Industry. (IDDC was formerly under the
Ministry of Industry).
Financial Situation of IDBE
13.   Recent DeveloDments:  The IDBE's total loan and investment portfolio
stood at LE 1.46 billion in FY94, about 2.4% higher than in FY 93. It is
expected to increase by about 9% in FY 95, reaching LE 1.6 billion with the
increasing demand for term loans. Unaudited accounts for FY 94 show a net
profit of LE 5 million after covering the accumulated losses of LE 28 million.
The financial situation of IDBE has improved since FY 92 when it showed a net
loss of LE 40.4 million. The unfavorable result for FY 1992 is attributable
largely to: high interest cost due to heavy reliance on inter-bank deposits;
decline in interest income from loans; an increased level of provision
mandated by the new Central Bank regulations; and increase in accrued interest
arrears.
14.   Part of the reason for the improvement in the financial operation in
IDBE since FY 92 is the payment of LE 300 million (out of LE 340 million due)
by the Government to cover foreign exchange risks on IDBE's previous loans.
15.   Arrears and Provisions:  Total outstanding balance in loan arrears in FY
94 was LE 179.5 million, including LE 112.3 million in principal and LE 67.2
million in interest, but excluding LE 91.5 million in rescheduled loans.
During FY 94, IDBE intensified its collection efforts and succeeded in
collecting LE 361.5 million including LE 136.6 million in arrears.  As a
result, the cumulative arrears increased marginally (3.51) in FY 94 (compared
to 22* in FY 93), and amount of rescheduled loans declined by 25%.  While the
growth in arrears is checked and the amount of rescheduled loans i8 coming
down, still LE 143 million of arrears is overdue by more than 12 months.
Although IDBR loans are fully backed by collateral rights, their enforcement
remains difficult. The Central Bank allows only cash collateral to be
excluded in making the mandatory level of provisions.   The accumulated level
of provisions in FY 94 was LE 220.9 million, which shows a decrease of 6.7%.
Although these provisions cover the total balance in arrears, some of the
rescheduled and other loans falling into arrears need to be closely monitored



Implementation Completion Report                                              39
to determine the amount of provisions in coming years.  Further, IDBE has
strengthened its debt collection department, offering some financial
incentives to staff to improve collection.  It is now giving more attention to
clearing up doubtful loans and improving the quality of the portfolio. Under
new procedures for settlement of old arrears, IDBE has agreed with 362
companies to settle their accounts within three years by offering discounts.
High discounts were given for one time cash settlement and lower discounts
were offered for scheduled payments in 2-3 years. This is a move in the right
direction.
16.   Capital Adeouacv:  Though IDBE's authorized capital is LE 200 million,
only LB 146.2 million is paid-in. The rest of the amount (LE 53.8 million)
was to be paid in FY 92 but has not been done so far. The Mission was
informed that the Government (the sole shareholder in IDBE) has agreed to the
National Investment Bank (NIB) becoming a shareholder
in IDBE by paying in LE 53.8 million as NIB share. NIB has not done it so
far. Therefore, the Government need to consider offering those shares to
private companies and/or general public. In FY 94, the debt/equity ratio of
IDBE was satisfactory at 7.1:1,showing significant improvement from the level
of 7.9:1in FY 93.
17.   Resource Reouirement and Recuest for New Loan: Most of the foreign
credit lines to IDBE have been either utilized or near closing at present when
the demand for term loans is increasing. IDB! is seeking new foreign credit
to the extent of US$ 150 million. The mission has reiterated the Bank's
previous response that IDBE remains a weak institution and it should not be
considering expansion of borrowing and lending without a major restructuring
of its portfolio, organization, operations and procedures through
privatization.
18.   IDBE is seeking technical assistance for preparing a restructuring and
privatization plan. It is requesting the Bank to assist in exploring
concessional funds to pay for technical assistance. In this context, the use
of part of the surplus funds under TA Privatization (Cr.2402) could be
explored if the Government makes a request for it.
19.   Meanwhile, IDBE is reducing its dependence on the Central Bank lines of
credit to meet its local currency requirement. It had five credit lines from
the Central Bank of which four have been cancelled at the request of IDBE as
it is able to meet local currency needs from inter-bank deposits on more
attractive terms. For example, currently IDB! has to pay 14.5% interest
(equivalent to the current discount rate) while it can get inter-bank deposits
cheaper at 11.5-12.51 interest as there is excess liquidity in the system.
Compliance with Covenants
20.  The compliance with covenants has been generally satisfactory except for
delays in submitting audit reports. Further, in the course of project
implementation, amendments were made to the terms and conditions of onlending
to reflect changes in the macroeconomic policy environment and financial
market conditions.



40                                                   Implementation Completon Report
Achievement of Prolect Oblectives
21.   The Project proved over-ambitious in the context of the economic
recession which was aggravated under the initial impact of major macroeconomic
reforms under SAL. As a result, the Project was restructured and a large part
of the loan was cancelled. Although the loan utilization fell far short of
the amount envisaged at appraisal, the development impact of the Project was
generally satisfactory with respect to institution building and financing a
large number of small and medium enterprises totalling about 250. IDBB5 a
public sector institution which is financing SSIs primarily in the private
sector, achieved significant improvement in its operational procedures and
methods (especially of appraisal and supervision) by interaction with IBRD and
through the use of training and technical services. It has organized 122
training courses (in-house and external) for 330 employees. Today IDBE is a
more viable public sector entity devoted to the financing of private sector
projects. However, it is still in need of major restructuring to prepare it
for privatization. It is seeking technical assistance for this purpose as
well as a line of credit to expand its operations in the current more
favorable macroeconomic environment.  The IDBE management is committed to
restructuring and privatization in line with the current Government policy for
privatizing public business institutions. Further, to improve operational
efficiency, it signed a contract with IBM in May 1994 for the introduction of
a computerized management information system, covering the Cairo head office
and eight branches of IDBE. This project, which would cost about LE 4
million, is expected to be completed in June 1995.
22.   The Project also helped strengthen the operational capability of the
Industrial Design Development Center which is playing an important role in the
development of small-scale enterprises in Egypt through training, field
visits, and technical services.  It is seeking assistance from the IBRD -
financed Social Fund project (under the Technical Assistance and Training
Component) to improve further its capacity to serve the development of the 8SI
sector.
Major Risks
23.   Major risks in the operational phase of the Project are:  (i)
Continuation of high arrears of IDBE;  (ii) IDBE is still a weak institution
as the turnover of trained staff is high and it does nor have the flexibility
to offer higher compensation and incentives to the staff; and (iii) IDBE lacks
technical assistance to restructure and privatize its operation; and it also
lacks foreign exchange lines of credit to expand its lending to meet the
increasing market demand.
24.   In the case of IDDC, it is becoming weak with a 15-25k turnover rate for
trained staff and lack of financial and technical support. The Center is
finding it impractical to recover full cost of training, field visits and
technical services for SSIs. Without partial support from the holding company
and/or the Government, its operation may not be sustainable.



Implementation Completion Report                                              41
Plan for Sustainabilitv
25.   IDBE need to:
(i)   Settle the dispute with IDDC and make increased use of IDDC to
provide technical services to SSIs financed by IDBE;
(ii)  Try harder to increase collections and reduce arrears.  In this
context, it could (a) offer more incentives to personnel in the
Collection Department, (b) increase the frequency of site visits
to projects/companies in arrears; and (c) set periodic targets for
collection of principal and interest overdue;
(iii) Strengthen the Project Department at the head office in Cairo as
well as the eight field offices of IDBE by hiring more competent
graduates and training them especially in project appraisal and
supervision;
(iv)  Prepare a restructuring and privatization study and implement the
study recommendations. IDBE is seeking concessionary financing
for the study and preparation of an action plan;
(v)   Pursue its efforts to receive a part of the deposits of the
Central Bank on a competitive basis.
(vi)  IDBE has established two industrial parks -- one near Port Said
and the other in the new city of October 6th. Successful
execution of these ventures have given an impetus to the growth of
SSIs in those areas.
(vii) IDBE has 70% stake in a company for establishing industrial
estates, and the remaining 30% shares are held by the Egyptian
Real Estate Bank. IDBE has brought in three prominent private
sector businessmen to the Board of the Company by giving each of
them 1 of the shares and a seat on the Board of the Company.
This is an innovative approach to strengthening management. As a
next step, IDBE needs to consider offering more of their shares in
the company to the private sector.
(viii) As planned, the paid-in capital of IDBE need to be raised by
53.8 million to TL 200 million. (This is overdue. It was
supposed to have been done in FY92). The Government needs to
consider offering these shares to the private sector in case the
National Investment Bank continues to delay the purchase of these
shares.
(ix)  IDBE has implemented a training program to strengthen its
organization and management. Still, there is an urgent need to
upgrade skills of the staff in critical areas such as project
appraisal and supervision, and application of information
technology. The additional needs for training have to be reviewed
and a new training plan has to be prepared for implementation.



42                                                  Implementation Completion Report
26.   In the case of IDDC, there is an urgent need to develop a medium-
term strategic plan for sustainable development with outside technical
assistance. It is trying to be a beneficiary under the Training and Technical
Assistance Component of the Social Fund Project.



Imnpletnentation Completion Report                                            43
ATTACHMENT I
LIST OF PERSONS MET
Industrial Development Bank of E'fvpt (IDBE)
Dr. Kamal Abou El-Eid, Chairman
Mr. Nader R. Rezkalla, General Manager and Member of the Executive
Committee
Ms. Nabila M. El Mahdy, General Manager and Member of the Executive
Committee
Dr. Fouad Iskandar, Economic Consultant (Ex-Minister)
Industrial Desicrn Development Center (IDDC)
Eng. Badran Mohamed Badran, President
Eng. Nabil H. Soliman, Director General, General Industrial Extension
Services



44                                                     Implementation Completionz Report
IMUSTRIAL DEVELOPME1NT BANX OF EGYPT
FOREIGN DEPARTMENT
Project revieg from the IDBE's Peisepective
Loan No. 2458-EGT,
Introduction:
- The project was prepared and appraised in 1984. I;egotiationa for the proposed
Loan were held iu Washington from May 21-24, 1984, during which a review for
the lendLng and relending arrangements as well as interest rate and foreign exchange
risk were taking place.
- On Aprile 4, 1986 Small and Medium Scale Industry project was approved and the
terminal date for effectiveness was 19/8/1987.  The loan uas closed on 30.9.1994.
Objeccives:
The objectivres of the project are (1) to assist in the development of the
Small and Medium Scale Industries of Egypt (SMI) through the extension of credit
to finance their investment needs and technical assistance to Imrove the efficiency
of their operations and (b) to furhter develop the insritutional cVacity in Egypt
for identifying and financing viable and priority industrial projects.
1- Reasons for project delay and cancellation of major portions of the loans;
- The onleudiag interest rate was nut competitive during 1987-1989, as it was about
20%, represented the World Bank interest rate of 8% p.a., IDBEI's spread of 3%-A4
the foreign exchange risk fee payable to the government  of  9%  p.a.  The higher
interest rate affected the demand for the loan compared with the interest rate
applicable in Egyptian market at that time ( i.e 152 ).
- It was agreed on 1989 to reduce the foreign exchange risk fee charged by the
goverameut from 9% to 6.35%. This reduction made the ultimate cost of sub-borrowr
about 17Z but still higher if we take into consideration the applicable interest
rate to other similar resources of credlit in the Bank and the Banking Sector ln
Egypt at that time,
- IDBE had an ample foreign currencicc resources from other Institutions with lijer
interest rate although sub-borrowers prefered the credits with fixed foreign
exchange risk.
- The World Bank suspended its acceptance fot extensiou of the terminal date for
sub-loan comitments from the period of July 1991 until April 1992.  During that
time there were long discussions wlth the World Rank offikials to amend the onlendlng
terms and conditlons reLated to luterest rate and exchange rate.
- On March 1992, the government requested IDBE to determine  the  required  amount
to be utilized by IDBE in the event of determlining the terinal date for submitting
appplications to 31.12.1992.  So the bank suggested that che  required amount of
$. 25.- million can be utilizald due to the following considerations:
- The refusal of the World Bank to extend the terminal date for aizftirg app.icaticm
beyond 31.12.1992.
- The new adjustment of the interest rate from 17.5% to 19% (for the fixed rate).



Implementation Completion Report
2) 3*aLUxatLon of project objectives:
The utilized amount of the loan L.- $. 86.- miflion have been used to fia-ce
about 250 projects in different sectors t spinning & Weavirg - Netallutgic & Engineer
Chemicals - Food Stuffs - Leather - Paper & Printing - Building &SC  cuctlDn - Wood
works - Toursim and Others), which classified according to the purpose of 3 ending
as follows:
- 'oev projects                  47
- Replacement projects          114
- Working capital                27-
- Expansion. projects            59
- Others                          3
Total                           250
This was satisfactory In the course of financing small and mDedium Loans if ic
compared with the amount assigned to each beneficiary as the average aiumt for each
cuwtome -.was about $. 350000.
3) The World Bank performance durting the evaluation and implementation of rie project:
- It was clear that the missions of the World Bank contributed a great deal i1 paving
the way to use the proceeds of the loan more effectively, as thiese missions to MBX
through the period from 1988-1994 aupported the bank role ain c-dirmed its csypdlti s
and help in the adjustment of the terms aud corditions as a result of ecorad- reform
program in Egypt mainly related to interest rate and foreign exchange.  Thia way of
handling problems accelerated the utilization and made the fund more  elfective  to
chIeve its objectives.
4. Plan for the operational phase of the project following loan closing:
Ir cooperation between the World Bank mission (from 23 April. 1993 to 7 Hay 1993)
aLd IDBE a rstnuuing plan was prepared which affected the following aspects positively:-
- The financial Position and Banking operations:
- IDBE succeeded in collecring 962 from the due amOuitB of foreign exchange  losses
(ECP. 300 million out of EGP. 340 million due).
- A great progress achieved in collecting ECP. 361.5 million during 1993/1994 inldirg
EGP. 136.6 million in arrcnj due to upgrading collection procedur-s.
- IDBE has adopted a plan to accelerate collections and cleaning up doutful loans.



46                                                    Implementation Completion Report
The Organizational aspects:
- IDB1 organised 122 trainxing courses (in house and external) for 330 employees in
dlfferant banking activities.
- on 12.5.1994 IDBE has signed a contract with IBM Company to provIde  vith ba !w
computer system for the Read Office and branches iu- order to improve the m=wne=
Information syscem.
5- The Overall findings and lessons learned:
IDBE had the following loans from the World Bank over about 20 years:
Loan No.                 Date of approval              Amou?lt in USD. Million
412                        29.6.1973                             15.-
576                        30.7.1975                             25.-
1533                        12.4.1978                             40.-
1804                        12.1.1982                             50.-
988                         1.5.1980                              9.3
2243                         4.4.1983                             20.3
2458                         4.4.1986                             94.5
Total              254.1
It is worthiness to mention here that these loans cortributed in deve3DpIng the
private sector in Egypt as IDBE bas the chance to share in achieving the govarnment
e-conomic plan objectives through these loans and loloking forward to continue our
cooperation for further development .
Therefore, IDBE has applied for a new loan for USD. 150.- million to meet our
finaanacial needs for the next three years and hope to receive your approval as soon
as possible.
IDBE also, lo in need of a portion for technical assistance  to  enhance  the
capabilities of the staff in various banking operations and in the field of aztomatin
v-hich will support utilization of the required loan.
The Bank appreciated the impact of the World Bank's tissions an its role to deavlop
the private sector projects in F.gypt which reflects on solving many economic problems
6u the National level.
CLAS.  ___NO.  X
PROBLEM LOANS                       27   %II1 
SAT ISFACTORY                       853   X33
VERY SATISFACTORY                   140  7.56
_ _ _                   :~~~~~~250  i171001



Implementation Completion Report                          47
r SER| [NAME                                  ICLAS.
I  JET CO. FOR TWIN & ROZAR BLADES         PROBLEM LOANS
2   SHERIN KAMEL IBRAHII                   PROBLEI LOANS
3   HAMHY HASSAN tAHMOUD                   PROBLEM LOANS
4   EL EDISS, TOURS CO.                    PROBLEM LOANS
5   EL NAHDAH ELHADISA                     PROBLEM LOANS
6   EL NAHDAH ELHADISA                     PROBLEM LOANS
7   EL NAHDAH ELHAD I SA                   PROBLEM LOANS
8   M I SR EL SALAM TR ICOT                PROBLEM LOANS
9   ADEL ABDOU SOL I MAN                   PROBLEM LOANS
10  THE GENERAL COMPANY                     PRO5LEM LOANS
1 I  EL NASR FACTORY FOR CLAY BRICKS        PRO0LEM LOANS
1 2   AL MARWA OLIVE OIL                    PROBLEM LOANS
13  HOSAM EL DIN ABDEL FATTAH               PROBLEM LOANS
14  MAGDY SHAKER YASSA                      PROBLEM LOANS
15  EL ENGAZAT CO.                          PROBLEM LOANS
1f6  MARCAIL RAMIZY                         PROBLEM LOANS
17  CONTI PRESS                             PROBLEM LOANS
18  EL NAHDAH ELHADDISA                     PROBLEM LOANS
19  HAPPY FACTORY                           PROBLEM LOANS
20   MODERN INDUSTRIAL                      PROBLEM LOANS
21  DEMEL INTERNATIONAL                     PROBLEM LOANS
22   MARCAIL RAMZY                          PROBLEM LOANS
23   MOHAMED ELGIMEIZY                      PROBLEM LOANS
24  TECHNOPOL EGYPT                         PROBLEM LOANS
25  ACOA PHARMA                             PROBLEM LOANS
26   ELAMIRA FACTORY                        PROBLEM LOANS
27   MOHAMED AMIN                           PROBLEM LOANS
1  EL MAHABA PLASIC                       SATISFACTORY
2   TECHNOTEX CO.                          SATISFACTORY
3  GUENEIDY CO. FOR INDUSRIAL              SATISFACTORY
4  El ARABY ELECTRIC CO.                   SATISFACTORY
5   BISHARA TEXTILE                        SATISFACTORY
6   BISHARA TEXTILE                        SATISFACTORY
7  HAVANA KNITTING FACT                    SATISFACTORY
8  HESHAM YOUSSEF                          SATISFACTORY
9  HESHAM YOUSSEF                          SATISFACTORY
10  HESHAM YOUSSEF                          SATISFACTORY
11  REFAI AHMED ABDEL RAHMAN                SATISFACTORY
12  INDUSTRY & TRADE                        SATISFACTORY
13  BELLA DONA CO.                          SATISFACTORY
14   MAF CO. FOR DYEING.                    SATISFACTORY



48                                    Implementation Completion Report
IS ER1 |NAME                                 TCLAS.
15  DAHAB FOR BISCUITS CO.                  SATISFACTORY
16  THE EGYP ION CO.                        SATISFACTORY
17   HUSSIN IBRAHI1 M. A.                   SATISFACTORY
18  ALY MOSTAFA KOS1A                       SATISFACTORV
I9  EL MAHABA PLASIC                        SATISFACTORY
20   MAHMOUD SALAMA                         SATISFACTORY
21   ALEXANRIA LIMOUSINE                    SATISFACTORY
22  FAKHOURY INDUSRIAL                      SATISFACTORY
23   RAGHEB M. N. EL ITRIBY                 SATISFACTORY
24   RAGHEO M. N. EL ITRIBV                 SATISFACTORY
25   RAGHEB M. N. EL ITRI1Y                 SATISFACTORY
26   ELARNAB FOR TEXTILE                    SATISFACTORY
27   CELIVIA FOR BA5lES                     SATISFACTORY
28   CAIRO ELECTRONICS CO.                  SATISFACTORY
29   RUBBLAST                               SAT I SFACT ORY
30   AHMED MOKAMED AYSSA/4NTERNATIONAL GRANET SATISFACTORY
31   SAMIR A212 ABDEL MALAK                 SATISFACTORY
32   CERAMICA CLEOPATRA                     SATISFACTORY
33  EL MOTAHIDA                             SATISFACTIORY
34   MODERN CO.                             SATISFACTORY
35  EL NADA WEAVING                         SATISFACTORY
36   SAMIR SHAFIK ESCANDER                  SATISFACTORY
37  EL M1OHANDSIN F.JAHMED FAHMY ETMARA     SATISFACTORY
38   BEKHIT GAD BEKHIT CO.                  SATISFACTORY
39  EMAD SHOKRY HABIB                       SATISFACTORY
40   ABDEL RAHMAN ABDEL HAMED               SATISFACTORY
41   NAT. MED. IIYD.                        SATISFACTORY
42   MOHAMED SAID MOHAMED                   SATISFACTORV
43   ADEL ABDEL HADY KHALIL                 SATISFACTORY
44  TAWAKOL CO.                             SATISFACTORY
45  ZAK I RASHED HADRAG                     SATISFACTORY
46   AWNY PLASTIC                           SATISFACTORY
47   NAGUIB AGAIY MOUSA                    SATISFACTORY
48  EL NIRSH CO.                            SATISFACTORY
49   HUSSEIN AtiMED ALl                     SATISFACTORY
50   KEN PORT SAID                          SATISFACTORY
51   ATELIER ROSSAN                         SATISFACTQRY
52   ADDEL WAHAB SHARKAWI                   SATISFACTORY
53   MARKONY HANNA                          SATISFACTORY
54   UL ICE FACTORY                         SATISFACTORY
55   SOC INDUSTRIELLE                       SATISFACTORY
56    M /SALAH MOHAMED IOR                  SATISFACTORY
57   ULICE FACTORY FOR RE                   SATISFACTORY
Sa  PERSTGE LIMITED                         SATISFACTORY



Implementation Completion Report                        49
FS-E-R  NAE                                 ICLAS.         -i
59  FAWZY HASSAN AHMED                     SATISFACTORY
60  HAVANA KNITTING                        SATISFACTORY
61  RIAD FLOATINS 140TELS                  SATISFACTORY
62  MOHAMED EL TABI FTOO                  SATISFACTORY
63  TOURISTIC INVEST11ENT                  SATISFACTORY
64  EGYPT ELECTRIC INSUL                   SATISFACTORY
55  THE EGYPTIAN YARNS                     SATISFACTORY
66  EL SHAFY CLAY BRICKS                   SATISFACTORY
.67  DR YAHIA ZAKI HACIM                   SATISFACTORY
65   BISHARA TEXTILE                       SATISFACTORY
69   MENOUFEYA BLANKET                     SATISFACTORY
70  ABCO UNITED PLASTICS                   SATISFACTORY
71  KHALED DELUX FACTORY                   SATISFACTORY
72  CAIRO ELECTRONICS CO.                  SATISFACTORY
73  EL ARNAB CO                            SATISFACTORY
74  KAtIAL MOHAMED EL SAM                  SATISFACTORY
75  FOOD INDUSTRIES CO.                    SATISFACTORY
76  DYEING. PRNT6 JFINISHG                 SATISFACTORY
77   KAMAL M0HAMED EL                      SATISFACTORY
78  CERAMICA CLEOPATRA                     SATISFACTORY
79   SISHARA TEXTILE                       SATISFACTORY
E0  FOOD INDUSTRIES DEV.                   SATISFACTORY
B1  GUENEIDY CO. FOR INDUSRIAL             SATISFACTORY
52  MAF                                    SATISFACTORY
53  SUENEIDY CO. FOR INDUSRIAL             SATISFACTORY
1  SArIR MOUNIR                          VERY SATISFACTORY
2  GA ID TEX.                             VERY SAT I SFACTORY
3  MENAPHARM CO.                          VERY SAT I SFACTORY
4  MENAPHARM CO.                          VERY SATISFACTORY
5  THE EGYPT ION DEV.                     VERY SATISFACTORY
6  THE EGYPT ION CO. FOR T.               VERY SATISFACTORY
7  AMOUN PHARACEUTICAL                    VERY SATISFACTORY
8  MAKAREM INDUSTRIAL                     VERY SATISFACTORY
9  EL SIGINI CO.                          VERY SATISFACTORY
10  HAPPY GIRL FACTORY                    VERY SAT I SFACTDRY
t 1   HAPPY GIRL FACTORY                  VERY SATISFACTORY
12  SAYED HASAN HAWASH                    VERY SATISFACTORY
13  AWAD AWAD ALY                         VERY SATISFACTORY
14  AFRI MEDICAL CO.                      VERY SATISFACTORY
15  AFRI MEDICAL CO.                      VERY SATISFACTORY
16  EL ZITOUN                             VERY SATISFACTORY
17  CaNCORD PRESS ENG. M.                 VERY SATISFACTORY



50                                    Implementation Completion Report
SER| INAME                                |CLAS.            I
t8  SPHINX COMMERCIAL                      VERY SATISFACTORY
19  SPHINX COMMERCIAL                      VERY SATISFACTORY
20   MOHAMED AHMED HESSIEN                 VERY SATISFACTORY
21  AlIER PRESS                            VERY SATISFACTORY
22  BAVARIA CO.                            VERY SATISFACTORY
23  BAVARIA CO.                            VERY SATISFACTORY
24  NAGY TRICOT/NASY REZK                  VERY SATISFACTORY
25  ELAMEN CC. FOR PLASIC                  VERY SATISFACTORY
26  THE ENGINEERING WORK                   VERY SATISFACTORY
27  HEFNY TAWFIK AWAN                      VERY SATISFACTORY
25  EL NAAMI FOR PRINTING                  VERY SATISFACTORY
29  EL AMAL FOR SEWING                     VERY SATISFACTORY
30   MACCA PLASTIC CO.                     VERY SATISFACTORY
31  MOHAMED MOHAMED ABDEL SALAI            VERY SAT ISFACTORY
32  EL AMANA FACTORY FOR RIBBON            VERY SATISFACTORY
33  EL TABAKH TRADI NO                     YERY SATISFACTORY
34   NORWOOD PRODUCTIONCO.                 VERY SATISFACTORY
35   MANSOUR BROTHERS WEAVING              VERY SATISFACTORY
36   MOHAMED ABO ELYAZED SHALBY/ENGINERING CO. VERY SATISFACTORY
37   YOUSSRY HASSAN                        VERY SATISFACTORY
38  JAKLINE FATHI ISKANDR                  VERV SATISFACTORY
39   PLASTIC CO.                           VERY SATISFACTORY
40   ARAB CERAMIC CO.                      VERY SATISFACTORY
41   ARAB CERAMIC CO.                      VERY SATISFACTORY
42   AHMED SHOUKRY EL GIZAWY               VERY SATISFACTORY
43  ABDEL FATTAH ABDEL GOWAD               VERY SATISFACTORY
44  MOSTAFA ALY FARAG CO.                  VERY SATISFACTORY
45   MOSTAFA ALY FARAG CO.                 VERY SATISFACTORV
46   MI DDLE DELTA                         VERY SATISFACTORY
47   AFRICAN PRESS OFFSET                  VERY SATISFACTORY
45   ARAB CO. FOR MODERN                   VERY SATISFACTORY
49  SOBHEY DIMETRY SHENODA                 VERY SATISFACTORY
50  PORT SAID VEGETABLES                   VERY SATISFACTORY
51   AHIIED AHMED AND MOHAJIED AHMED       VERY SAT I SFACTORY
52  Mi. SHETA WEAVING CO.                  VERY SATISFACTORY
53   ASQUAD AKHOWAN                        VERY SATISFACTORY
54   ALLWILER FARID CO.                    VERY SATISFACTORY
55  EM I PLAST CO.                         VERY SAT I SFACTORY
56  EL SALAM RIBBON                        VERY SATISFACTORY
57   ASWAD AKHOWAN                         VERY SATISFACTORY
58  EL DAHAN METALS                        VERY SATISFACTORY
59   MECH. ENG. TURING CO.                 VERY SATISFACTORY
60   MARYO PRINTEX CO.                     VERY SATISFACTORY
61   ELECTRO tOTIVE CO.                    VERY SATISFACTIRY



Inmlementation Completion Report                         51
SR 1NAME                                    CLAS.
62  MAKRAM LEATHER                         VERY SATISFACTORY
63  NEW TECNO PLAST                        VERY SATISFACTORY
64  CLEOPATRA PLASTIC                      VERY SATISFACTORY
65  FAT4IA SEDDIK                          VERY SATISFACTORY
66  PRAHIMTICO                             VERY SATISFACTORY
67  EGYPTION DEVELOPPED FOOD CO.           VERY SATISFACTORY
68  ENS. RAFAT ANWAR FAHMY                 VERY SATISFACTORY
69  EL AMAL FACTORY                        VERY SATISFACTORY
70  MIAMI CO.                              VERY SATISFACTORY
71   MAHMOUD EL SAYED                      VERY SATISFACTORY
72  AMOUN PHARACEUTICAL                    VERY SATISFACTORY
73   MAKAREM HATEX                         VERY SATISFACTORY
74  MAKAREM MATEX                          VERY SATISFACTORY
75   FAROUK IBRAHIi                       VERY SATISFACTORY
76  GRAPHIC PRESS                          VERY SATISFACTORY
77  ELKADY                                 VERY SATISFACTORY
78  ALUMINUM LADDERS                       VERY SATISFACTORY
79  EL SHARK                               VERY SATISFACTORY
50  HASAN ZAKI HASAN                       VERY SATISFACTORY
I  LAND MARK FOR PLASTIC/RAFAAT          VERY SATISFACTORY
82  HAPPY SHOES MERVET                     VERY SATISFACTORY
53  EL NASR                                VERY SATISFACTORY
84  MODERN CO. FOR TEXTILE                 VERY SATISFACTORY
H5  EGT. CO. IND. AND TRADE                VERY SATISFACTORY
155  HAOIL A. FISSIKH                      VERY SAT ISFACTORY
87  SAIAHA PLASTIC                         VERY SATISFACTORY
35  ELSWASY                                VERY SATISFACTORY
89  STYLE PRESS/KAGDY BAEHR                VERY SAT ISFACTORY
90  GOLDEN TEX SPINNING                    VERY SATISFACTORY
91  FOOD INDUSTRIAL DEV.                   VERY SATISFACTORY
92  GOLDEN TEX WOOL CO.                    VERY SATISFACTORY
93   GOLDEN TEX WOOL CO.                   VERY SATISFACTORY
94  MITKESS PAPER CONVER                   VERY SATISFACTORY
95   NADEEN PRINT                          VERY SAT I SFACTORY
95   ALY FAKHRY                            VERY SATISFACTORY
97  INTL CO FOR MARBLE                     VERY SATISFACTORY
95  ABDALLAH SALAM                         VERY SATISFACTORY
99  ELIAS MODERN PUBLISH                   VERY SATISFACTORY
100   BADAWI FACTORY                        VERY SATISFACTORY
101  EL AMAL MEDICAL SUPP                   VERY SATISFACTORY
102  MAHER MONIR                            VERY SATISFACTORY
103  TANIS CO FOR FLOATIN                   VERY SATISFACTORY
104  M1ISR CO FOR AROMATI                   VERY SATISFACTORY
105  ABU SIMBLE CO FOR DY                   VERY SATISFACTORY



52                                    Implementation Completion Report
5ER| IN A VE                                _CAS
106  SECRE MISR FATAH 600                   VERY SATISFACTORY.
107  ENGINEERING CO lOIHAM                  VERY SATISFACTORY
108   EL SALAMI RIBBON AND                  VERY SATISFACTORY
104    SALAM FACTORY                        VERY SATISFACTORY
110  EL SIGINI CO.                          VERY SATISFACTORY
111   TRICOT HISR CO.                       VERY SATISFACTORY
112  AWAD CC.                               VERY SATISFACTORY
113   EL NISR FACTORY                       VERY SATISFACTORY
114  EL SIGINI CO.                          VERY SATISFACTORY
115  FAKHOURY INDUSTRIAL                    VERY SATISFACTORY
116  FAKHOURY INDUSTRIAL                    VERY SATISFACTORY
117  FAKHOURY INDUSTRIAL                    VERY SATISFACTORY
116  TECHNOPOL EGYPT                        VERY SATISFACTORY
119  6AIDEX FOR INDUSTRY                    VERY SATISFACTORY
120  HESHAM IBRAHIM                         VERY SATISFACTORY
121   MOHAMED AUDEL SALAN                   VERY SATISFACTORY
122  HESHAM IBRAHI!1                        VERY SATISFACTORY
123   MARYO PRINTEX CO.                     VERY SATISFACTORY
124  TECH/GRAPHIC HOUS E                    VERY SATISFACTORY
125  UNITED FOR PRITING                     VERY SATISFACTORY
126  SPHINX  CO                             VERV SATISFACTORY
127  EL ZITOUN                              VERY SATISFACTORY
128  EL ZITOUN                              VERY SATISFACTORY
129  THE EGYPITON CO.                       VERY SATISFACTORY
130   BAVARIA CO.                           VERY SATISFACTORY
131  THE EGYPITON CARPET                    VERY SATISFACTORY
132  IBRAHIM ABWEL AZIZ                     VERY SATISFACTORY
133  THE EGYPT ION AMERICA                  VERY SATISFACTORY
134  ANWAR MOHAMED TAWFIK                   VERY SATISFACTORY
135   ARAB CERAMIC CO.                      VERY SATISFACTORY
136   MAKAREM TEX.                          VERY SATISFACTORY
137  GOLDEN TEX WOOL CO.                    VERY SATISFACTORY
13B  NATIONAL CO.                           VERY SATISFACTORY
139  EGYPTION SANITARY                      VERY SATISFACTORY
140  FATTAH HAMZA GOUDI                     VERY SATISFACTORY



Page 1 of 6
Borrower's Comments on ICR
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMIENT BANK OF EGYPT [IDBE]
OFFICE OF THE BOARD CHAIRMAN
CAIRO, 25 May, 1995.
Prof. Dr AHMED AL DARSH,
Head of ' INTERNATIONAL
FINANCE SECTOR,
MINISTRY OF INTERNATIONAL
C O00 P E R A T I 0 N,
8  Adly Street,  C a i  r o.
Dear Professor,
The INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF EGYPT presents its compli-
ments,  and referring to your FAX message dated 15 May,1955,
requesting the comments of the Bank on the contents of the
report drawn up concerning the end and completion of small
and medium industries project ( Credit/Loan No. 2458),   we
have the honour to inform you that in the light of studying
the report of the World Bank as referred to hereinbefore,
and  the contents of page (9), item I.  FUTURE OPERATIONS,
you are requested to reply to the World Bank in this respect
as follows
1 - The process of privatizing the INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
OF  EGYPT   cannot be  taken up away from the rest of
banks within the context of a general policy   to be de-
termined by  the Egyptian Government. Therefore, the World
Bank's statement in its report to the effect that it will
not consider granting  new loans and credit to our Bank,
as long as it is wholly owned by the Government, is rebutted
preliminarily  by the fact that the Bank rest         
its dealings entirely to its clients from t
sector.



Page 2 of 6
-2-
2 - The World Bank expressed in its report for-the year
1993 that the future of the INDUSTR:IAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
OF EGYPT [IME] -  including   future privatization even-
tualities  which depend entirely on the general policy
of the Government -   depends on specific procedures
visualizing  the enhancement of the Bank's efficiency
and the growth  of the value of its assets.  In  its
report for the year 1993 and 1994, the World.Bank men--
tioned explicitly that such procedures would take about
THREE years.
3 - In its report for the year 1993, the mission of the World
Bank   recommended  the provision of finance  to the
Industrial Development Bank of Egypt. (IDBE )    to be
able to obtain the technical assistance necessary for
preparing and carrying out   the procedures of enhancing
the foregoing efficiency.   The text of the report reads
as follows
"THE MISSION RECOMMENDS THAT CONCESSIONAL FUNDS
BE PROVIDED TO IDBE FOR OBTAINING THE REQUISITE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO HELP PREPARE AND CARRY
OUT ITS RESTRUCTURING PLAN."
Tm  mission also explained in the same reIort  that this recoin-
mendation is also concerned with providing the funds
required from the Bank over the three coming years, taking
into account the eventualities of any policies tending
toward  privatization in future.    The text of  s
recommendation reads as follows



Page 3 of 6
-3-
THE MISSION WOULD EXPLORE THE POSSIBILITY OF A NEW
WORLD BANK LOAN TO SUPPORT A PORTION OF IDEE'S OPE-
RATION FOR A THREE-YEAR PERIOD WHEN THE RESTRUCTUR-
ING PLAN IS CARRIED OUT AND A LONG TERM GROWTH AND
PRIVATIZATION STRATEGY IS ADOPTED."'
4 - Our Bank actually began implementing certain fundamen-
tal procedures to enhance  the efficiency of perfor-
mance which were praised by the World Bank in its report
for the years 1993 and 1994, including the following :
1) Establishing an integral DATA system between the
Head Office and the different branches of the Bank;
2) Increasing the Bank's collection activities and
enhancing its efficiency :
3) Enhancing the efficiency of employees in the Bank,
by increasing the number of training courses, locally
and abroad.
4) Carrying.out a privatization plan for one of the
BanN's companies   ( INDUSTRIAL COMPOUNDS COMPANY 2?
which is concerned with increasing investment in new
industrial zones.   Our Bank has recently  admitted
the participation of TIIREE of its clientele -in pos-
sessing 3 per cent of the Bank's share in the Com-
pany.   It is the intention of  our Bank in Xuture
to confine the share of our BANK and the Egyptian
Real Estate Bank  to portion not exceeding 24  per
cent, and the rest of the company will be appro-



Page 4 of 6
4-
priated  to investors  wmong the Bank's clients'. The World
Bank praised  the steps  adopted by our Bank in this res-
pect.
5) Our Bank has  taken positive steps  toward developing its
performance, by diversifying its activities  as follows :
-  Establishing (9) branches of the Bank, in addition to
(3) three branches  under  establishment.
-  Starting  its dealings in the free market and  foreign
exchange transactions.
- Expanding the training of workers and enhancing the..
level:of their skills in  the field of  evaluating  the
projects and supervisory skills, in addition to mntoaring
the transactions    For, the Bank   has carried  out
190 training programmes, locally and abroad, of which
a total of 359 workers of the Bank have benefited during
the period from 1/7/1994 to 30 April, 1995.
- Intensifying the collection operations, and in this
respect   we would refer to  the report   as it praises
the high percentage of projects  funded by the loan
I  extended  by the WORLD BANK ( No. 3458)  taking into
consideration the fact that out of a total of 250 pro-
jects  included in the.report  only 27 projects  were
staggering . The Bank's efforts   resulted in impro-
ving the financial situation of these projects , as
follows
Settling  the obligations  accounts of  FIVE projects.



Page 5 of 6
* ELEVEN projects have been settling the Bank's claims
regularly.
* Legal procedures  are being take  against ELEVEN pro-
jects.
* Diversifying the transactions of the Bank by contri-
buting to the capitals of projects   C stocks and
shares portfolio )
* Establishing an INFORMATION CENTER between the Head
Office of the Bank and its different branches.
6- With regard to increasing the Capital of the Bank, efforts
are still being exerted  with the  Government of Egypt
represented in the Ministry of Finance )  to provide the
rest of the determined increase, accounting for 53.8
million pounds, through the Government, or approve the Nation-
nal  Investment Bank's contribution  of 50 million pounds
from its deposits with our Bank.
7-  The index of indebtedness to shareholders equity   fell
f roj 7.R   :  1   on 30 June , 1993    to  7.1 : 1  on
30 June, 1994,  contrary to what  was mentioned in the
World Bank's report   which indicated  a fall in the index
from  10   1   to  6 : 1.
8-  The Bank has recently adopted  a policy  of. tending to
provide its finance needs  from   the Commercial Banks,
as   and to acccpt   deposits from the National Investment Bank,
d the Insurance Companies  with lower cost, besides
epting  deposits  from the individuals   to alleviate



Page 6 of 6
-:6-
the coat of the Credit granted by the Central Ban% of
Egypt :
15.1/ % +  1%   proportional stamp.
4                   duty)
Attached are the  financial statement   duly verified
and chocked.
You are requested to  get  note of the foregoing   and
notify the World Bank   with  our Bank's  remarks  as
mentioned hereinbefore.
We beg to remain, Dear Sir,
Truly Yours.
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF
DI RECTORS
signed  )
tDR.  KAMAL  EL SAYED






L   ' hI A   ;;  .,1,
T- e    INR                    14r .No1
Type  :   IC,R                   1      4i



