Docuient of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
RIkrt N.. P-3855-EGT
REPORT AND RECNMEWICNTICK
OF 7!E
PRE%IDENT OF TRE
IffERNATIONAL BANK F (R RECONSTRUCTION AND DE VELOPHENr
TO THE
EX ECUTIVE DIRK:TORS
{ON A
PRO POSE D LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USM17O MILLION
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC (F EGYPT
FOR A
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJKCT
June 1, 1984
This documext bu a restrictd distnbutio_  ad  y be used by recipiestomly i the pefcrnmac of
their olidil dulis. It content my as  udlrwise be dissd widot Worl Bmlck autwh ton.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Currency Equivalents
Calendar 1983           April 1984
Currencv Unit                   Egyptian Pound (LE)            LE
Official Foreign                US$ 1 =  LE 0.70              0.70
Exchange Rate                 L.E  1 =  USt 1.43            1.43
Rate for Co zercial             US$ 1 =  LE 0.84              0.84
&-nk Transactions             LE 1   =  ust 1.20            1.20
Free XIarket Rate (variable)    US¢ 1 =  LE 1.10-1.20       1.20-1_25
LE 1   =  UStO.90-0.83      0.86-0.80
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
Abbreviations and Acronvms
BIC    -   Bank for Industry and Cozmerce
CBE    -   Central Bank of Egvpt
DIB    -   Development Industrial Bank
EEC    -   European Economic Community
EIDDC  -   Engineering and Industrial Design Development Centre
LIBOR  -   London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
MIDB   -  Misr Iran Development Bank
PBDAC  -   Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
SMI    -   Small and Medium Scale Industrv
S-SI    -   Small Scale Industrv
USAID  -   United States Agencv for International Development



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY (SMI) PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumary
Borrower:               Arab Republic of Egypt
Amount:                 US$170.0 million equivalent, includinz capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:                  20 vears, including 5 vears of Rrace, at che standard
variable interest rate.
RelendinDg Terms:       The Government would onlend US$168.1 million out of
the proceeds of the loan to the Development Industrial
Bank (DIB) at an interest rate equivalent to the Bank
rate at the time of Board approval plus 1 percentage
point for carrying the interest rate and foreign
exchange risks. DIB would onlend these funds to
subborrowers for terms not exceeding 15 years,
including three years' grace, at an interest rate of
not less than 14% per annum. DIB would repav the loan
to the Government substantially in accordance witb the
amortization schedules of the individual subloans.
The Government would transfer US$1.5 million to the
Engineering and Industrial Design Development Center
(EIDDC) as a grant to cover the foreign exchange cost
of the technical assistance program to SKI. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk
between the US dollar and the currencies of
disbursement; subborrowers would bear the exchange
risk between the US dollar and the Egyptian pound and
would repay their subloans at the highest exchange
rate between the Ezvptian pound and the US dollar
declared by the Central Bank of Egypt at the time of
repayment.
Project
Description:           The project is designed to support the program for the
development of SKI through a line of credit to DIB and
technical assistance to individual enterprises. It
would (i) provide a part of DIB's foreign exchange
requirements over 1985-87 for onlending to SKI, with
special emphasis on small scale industries (SSI); and
(ii) finance the foreign exchange cost of continuing
the program of technical assistance to SKI begun under
previous loans (1533-EGT and 2074-EGT).
Benefits and Risks:     The project would provide further support for the
Government's "open-door" policy. Bv providing
financial assistance to SMI, it would contribute to
IThis docment bhs a esicd ditbtioon and may be used by re_iets only in the performance of
their ofici duties. Its contents nay not othervise be disclsd wbout World Bank autborizatiz



- ii -
the development of this important part of the private
sector, while the technical assistance component would
increase the productivity and efficiency of SMI. The
project is expected to create about 71,000 new jobs.
There are risks associated wit' DIB meeting its
lending targets for SSI and delays in carrying out the
technical assistance program; the experience gained
under previous loans and careful supervision of
progress should minimize these risks.
Inaividual Subloan
and Free Limits:        Maximum subloan of US$5.0 million; free limit for
individual subloans of US$1.25 million.
Final Date for
Project Submissions:    June 30, 1987
Procurement;             Through international shopping procedures which
require comparison of offers from at at least three
suppliers.
Estimated Bank
Loan Disbursements:                                 USS million
FY85 FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91
Annual     0.4  20.4   44.2   47.6   32.1   17.4    7.9
Cumulative 0.4  20.8   65.0  112.6  144.7  162.1  170.0
Economic Rate of
Return:                  n.a.
Staff Appraisal
Report:                  No. 5030-EGT, dated Hay 29, 1984.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCrION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANE FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY (SMI) PROJECT
I submit the following reporc and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Arab Republic cf Egypt for the equivalent of US$170 million to belp
finance a Small and Medium Scale Industrv (SMI) Project. The loan would have
a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1I
2.       A report on "Current Economic Situation and Growth Prospects" (Report
No. 4498-ECT) was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 20, 1983.
This section is based on that report; country data sheets and macroeconomic
accounts are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.       Durinz the 1950s and 1960s, Egvpt developed a virtual com:5and economy
with a dominant public sector, fixed, administered prices and a pattern of
trade weighted heavilv toward eastern bloc economies. Beginning in 1974, the
Government began to gradually introduce an "Open Door" policy with the aim of
accelerating development bv liberalizing the economy and stimulating foreign
and domestic private investment.
4.       Supported by large external capital flows, the economy began to grow
faster in 1974 and 1975. Ihis process was accentuated further during the
following five years by a rapid rise in foreign earnings which helped narrow
the current account deficit while allowing imports to increase at a rapid
pace. During this period, Egypt exported a growing volume of petroleum at
favorable prices; a swelling number of Egyptian workers abroad remitted their
earninxs in increasing amounts; the Suez Canal reopened; and tourist receipts
continued to jgrow. Betm.een 1974 and 1980, earnings from these sources grew in
US dollar terms by 40Z per annum, accounting for over 70Z of export earnings
by 1980. The resulting increase in income stimulated the economy, which grew
by more than 9Z per annum during this period.
5.       The continuation of rapid inflation abroad and fixed prices at home
created growing distortions in the domestic economv. Controlled prices for
consumer goods, energy, transport, rents, public sector wages and foreign
exchange lagged far behind international prices and domestic prices for many
of the same goods in the uncontrolled parts of the economv, resulting in a
severe duality in Ezypt's economy. Although the fixed prices avoided
1/ This section is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
for the Water Supply and Seweraze Engineering Project (P-3653-EGT),
distributed to the Board on October 5, 1983.



- 2 -
stressful adjustments in the living standards of those with access to
controlled goods and services, they have created major strains and
inefficiencies in domestic production. Increasing consumer subsidies have
been conducive to high consumption, growing imports, unremunerative prices to
farmers and growing government budget deficits. Low energy prices have
permitted a rapid growtb of domestic consumption, affecting the exportable
surplus of petroleum. Loa transport tariffs have led to strained capacity and
inadequate investment and maintenance. Fixed rents have resulted in a severe
housing shortage. High employment and low wages in the public sector have
contributed to an exodus of skilled manpower from the public sector to higher
paying jobs abroad and to the private sector. An overvalued exchange rate has
discouraged non-oil commoditv exports, while stimulating imnorts.
6.       Although since 1974 private sector investment, production and
emplovment have grown faster than in the public sector, the public sector is
still dominant, with 40% of total employment, 54Z of value added, 60% of total
expenditure and 70o of total investment. The public sector finances have
generally been in the red; the overall deficit has recently been around 20% of
GDP. Although foreign resources and public control over various forms of
private saving have financed a considerable portion of tbis, between 30% and
50% has been financed by borrowing from the banking system. Growth of
domestic credit accelerated through 1980/81, when it reached a rate of 34%.
Inflation has been 15 to 20% per annum in the late 1970s and early 1980s.
7.       Given the external sources of income growth and the internal price
controls and policy constraints, the growth that accrued has been highly
biased. Fixed prices caused a shift in resources away from controlled (mainly
commoditv producing) to free (principally trade and service) activities.
Within the commodity producing sectors, agriculture and industry, price
controls and subsidies distorted indicators of comparative advantage, causing
the largest profits in the production of the most land-extensive (e.g. red
meat) and most energv-intensive (e.g. aluminum) goods.
8.       At an estimated 43 million, Egypt's population is already large
relative to its quite limited arable land, with an average density higher than
that of Bangladesh or Indonesia. And this population is growing rapidly, by
2.5% per annum, or by over one million people every year. Almost half of this
growth is concentrated in the greater Cairo area. The family planning
programs have been weak. The rapid economic growth of recent r-ears has been
stimulated by external circumstances and has had only deficient links to
agriculture, industry and services which in the end are the sectors wbere
productive gains can supply the resources for meeting needs and providing the
necessary jobs. For example, the Suez Canal and the petroleum sector account
for over 20% of GDP but only 1Z of employment. While tourism and employment
abroad absorb considerably more Egyptians, their levels of activity have been
determined by external factors.
9.       The fat growtn of external earnings which characterized the
1974-1980 period weakened sharply beginning in the summer of 1981, triggered
bv a fall in oil prices. Increases in the volume of production and of exports
meant only modest rises in oil export earnings rather than the large increases
anticipated earlier. Along with the falling price of oil, workerst
remittances and tourist receipts also fell. Suez Canal receipts grew slowly,



rather than rising sharply as expected. As a result, there was a marked
deterioration in the key macroeconomic balances during 1981/82 (Julv 1981 to
June 1982). The current account deficit rose from USt2.3 billion in 1980/81
to USt3.5 billion in 1981/82 and the overall balance was a negative US$615
million. The government budget deficit rose from 18Z of GDP in 1980181 to 23Z
in 1981/82. The growth of the money supply spurted to 44Z in 1981/82.
Recent Developments
10.      The above situation was inherited bv the Government of President
Mubarak in October 1981. The new Government has had to contend with both the
short-term resource scarcity and the longer-term structural constraints. The
deteriorating short-term trend was contained during the fiscal year ending
June 1983 despite a further decline in oil prices. While this reflects sowe
favorable circumstances such as low import prices and special militarv
exports, as well as a more normal flow of remittances, the improvement is
attributable in part to the authorities' own efforts. These included:
(i) measures to curb imports, particularly of consumer goods; (ii) measures to
liberalize the terms on which banks can attract workers' remittances from
abroad; (iii) curbs in the growth of both current and capital public
expenditures; and (iv) a tightening of domestic credit. As a result of these
measures and the favorable factors mentioned above, the balance of payments
showed a substantial improvement, with the current account deficit narrowing
to an estimated US$2.2 billion in 1982/83. The overall balance of payments
showed a surplus in 1982/83, allowing Egypt to reduce its short-term debt and
rebuild reserves. The fiscal situation also showed some amelioration,
although the overall public sector deficit stil'l remained large (21% of GDP).
Reflecting the credit controls, the pace of monetary expansion and domestic
credit growth recorded a marked deceleration, with money supply growing 28% in
the last fiscal year.
I1.      In addition tn the stabilization measures, the Government began to
deal witb some of the country's longer-term constraints. The most substantial
change took place in the foreign trade regime where the Government has allowed
exporters to receive the mosc favorable exchange rate (the free market rate)
and has simultaneously taken steps to reduce export controls and strengthen
export promotion. At the same time, the co mercial bank exchange rate was
allowed to depreciate, attracting additional workers' remittances and leading
to higher and more uniform exchange rates for price-sensitive imports. It
also took significant steps to simplify and strengthen investment incentives
for foreign and domestic private investors. There were some limited price
adjustments--for electricity, water charges, several industrial products and
agricultural commodities.
12.      The Government has formulated a new Five Year Development Plan
(1982/83 to 1986/87). In terms of coverage and detail, the plan represents a
very substantial effort. The growth and investment objectives of the plan,
while ambitious, would move the economy in the right direction. The plan
clearly recoznizes the underlying structural problems facing the Egyptian
economy and the need for major policy reforms if the investment and growth
targets are to be met. The plan, however, contains few proposals for policy
action for reaching the sxated goals.  It is heartening that the plan's
objectives and basic thrust have been prominently endorsed. Nevertheless, it
remains to translate these goals more effectively into a series of policy
measures for implementation.



-4-
13.      The 1983/84 budget aims at a further improvement in the fiscal
balance in the current year. Income tax rates were raised somewhat and
exemptions from customs duties were limited. A major budget proposal was to
substantially reduce the level of consumer subsidies, but this step has not
yet been taken. Parliament passed a law (Law 97 published August 4, 1983)
reforming in certain wavs the organization and management of public sector
companies. The major changes are: an attempt to introduce a greater degree of
decentralization by creating holding companies to oversee the operations of
public sector companies, and greater control over hiring by the management of
public sector companies.
14.      The election for the People's Assemblv at tbe end of May 1984 has
caused the postponement of the presentation of a budget for 1984/85. The new
Assembly will consider the budget towards the end of 1984, and any change in
policies will be known only at that time.
Development Potential and Constraints
15.      Although the Government was able to improve the short-run
macroeconomic situation in the balance of payments, public finances and the
monetary svstem, the longer-run structural problems discussed above still
remain. Furthermore, the external resource position facing Egvpt during the
1980s inevitablv will be less favorable than in the 1970s. Nevertheless,
given appropriate policies, Egvpt has the potential for sustained economic
growth and development. Its population constitutes a larze domestic market.
Notwithstanding that the country's agricultural land is limited, the Nile
River provides ample and reliable irrigation to all of it; favorable
year-round growing conditions would allow considerablv higher yields than
those achieved so far. Egypt has a kev teographical location, a relatively
skilled labor force, somewhat varied raw materials and major reserves of
energy; these would allow a substantial degree of industrialization and trade
in manufactured goods. Finally, despite the recent slowdown in their growth,
Egvpt will continue to have access to foreign resources that can be used to
supplement domestic savings for investment.
16.      The major constraints on developing this potential are the distorting
policies enunciated. What is required is substantial adjustment in these
policies to arrest the growing duality of the economy and move it towards a
more unified and simplified incentive structure.  These policy adjustments,
along with an appropriate investment program, will lay the basis for higher
productivity and growth from Egypt's domestic commodity producing sectors.
17.      Perhaps the most important adjustment needed is to raise energy
prices and to rationalize energy consumption through conservation measures.
Curbing the growtb of demand for energv and substituting natural gas for
petroleum fuels will make much wiser use of Egypt's energv resources and will
add to the exportable surplus of petroleum. The growth of consumer subsidies
needs to be contained by price increases and improved targetting to low income
groups. This will ease the burden on the government budget and consequent
inflationary pressure; and, along with increases in farm prices, will reduce
the growth of imports of basic consumption goods. Agricultural prices need to
be raised for crops with high economic returns; controls over area planted and
over inputs should be relaxed. There is considerable scope to increase value



added in agriculture by shifting to a more intensive and higbly valued pattern
of crop production and by metivacing farmers to raise yields. The foreign
exchange rate should be unified  nd maintained flexible, reflecting  the value
of foreign exchange to the economy, botb to stimulate exports and ration funds
for imports. Improvements in the structure and operations of industrial
production tbrough export promotion, exchange rate movements, more liberal
pricing and production control policy, an enlightened investment program and
greater autonomy in the management of public sector enterprises will have a
substantial impact on industrial productivitv, employment and foreign exchange
availability. In addition to improving the efficiency with which resources
are used in the economy, most of these changes would have a favorable impact
on the mobilization of public savings and foreign resources to finance the
required i-%estments.
18.      The medium-term outlook will depend on the pace and magnitude of the
necessary policy reforms.  Clearly it would be unrealistic to expect rapid
adjustments on all fronts, and in some cases it might even be
counterproductive to make sweeping changes. But adjustment with deliberate
speed across a broad spectrum is required to lav the base for sustained growth
at rates close to those achievable, given the resources available to the
economy. Some progress in initiating the necessary policy reforms has been
made during the past year with World Bank assistance, and it is now important
to build on this -mnomentum. The growth rates of the 1970s are unlikely to be
attainable in the 1980s. Nevertheless, assuming reasonable and effectual
policies, Egypt could maintain growth in the vicinitv of 6% to 7% per annum in
the medium term. Although the public sector budget and current account
deficit will still remain high, they both should improve over the period; and
savings and investment can grow at rates that provide for longer-term growth
on a stable basis. Oil exports and Suez Canal revenues are not expected to
grow as rapidly as in the past; but non-oil exports have the capacity to
increase. The balance of payments will by no means be as comfortable as it
was up to 1980, but with sound domestic policies the needed imports can be
financed by growing export earnings and by continued success in attracting
private foreign investment and official aid transfers.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
19.      At mid-1983, Egypt's publicly guaranteed non-military medium- and
long-term external debt was estimated at US$16 billion. Private
non-guaranteed debt is estimated at about US$600 million and total short-term
obligations, both public and private, are estimated to amount to a further
US$3.2 billion. Egypt's military debt is estimated to be in the range of US$7
billion. Of this, US$2.5 billion are obligations to the U.S. and US$1 billion
to France. In addition, militarv debt to eastern bloc countries is estimated
at about US$3 billion, but this is not being serviced. The volume and
structure of Egvpt's medium- and long-term non-military external debt is
dominated by the large borroving from official sources that occurred during
the 1975-79 period. External indebtedness grew by 38X per annum during that
period although almost 25% of official inflows was on a grant basis. By
contrast, external debt grew at an annual rate of 10% in 1980/81 and 1981/82
and 9% in 1982/83. This reflects the marked slowdown in official aid
commitments and disbursements since 1979, with the cessation of capital
inflows from Arab countries, and the gradual impact of the conversion of the



- 6 -
bulk of the U.S. aid program to grants. In spite of increased commercial
borrowing, almost 80Z of Egypt's external debt is owed to official creditors
and mostlv on fixed concessional terms. The remainder is owed to private
creditors, at variable rates linked to LIBOR.
20.      External financing requirements are likely to remain sizeable in the
medium term given Egvpt's immense development needs and the more moderate
growth of foreign exchange earnings projected. At the same time, in view of
the adverse global aid outlook, Egyvpt may have to rely more on conventional
finance than in the past and at significantly higher interest rates.
Nevertheless, the debt service ratio is projected to remain in the 27-30Z
range in the next five vears. Even without very rapid progress on the policy
reforms discussed above, Egvpt would have the capacity to service its debt in
the medium term while maintaining essential imports and growing at socially
acceptable, if lower, rates of growth. As stated, higher rates of economic
growth would depend heavily on substantial policy changes; with these changes,
Egypt's creditworthiness would also be enhanced. In the short run, Egypt must
carefully manage its macroeconomic variables, particularly the balance of
payments, as it did in 1982/83, to maintain its liquidity to meet its
immediate debt service obligations.
PART II - BANK GROUP 3PERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
21.      The proposed loan would be the World Bank's seventieth lending
operation to Egvpt and would bring Bank and IDA commitments to US$3,166.1
million. 2/ Through these operations, the Bank Group has assisted the
development of agriculture, industry, power and energy, water supply, family
planning, transportation, telecommunications, tourism, urban and education.
Annex II contains a summarv of Bank loans and IDA credits as of March 31, 1984.
22.      In assisting Egypt's development, the Bank has followed a strategy
which involves entry into a wide spectrum of sectors in order to
provide not only direct finance with its relatively limited resources but,
equallv, to act as a catalyst for other bilateral and multilateral agencies,
and as a spur for initiating discussion and positive action on a coherent
framework of policies and investment proposals which can tackle the
substantive issues. The approacb also includes delivery of technical
assistance, not only for sound execution of specific projects but for
developing the domestic institutional capability to articulate and implement
future policies and investment programs. The Bank's deliberate multisectoral
support has been differentiated and tailored to the pace at which the Egyptian
authorities can reasonably be expected to address these issues and implement
the programs.
23.      Industry illustrates the nature and scope of the Bank's role.
Efforts under Bank financed projects have gone beyond the immediate objective
of improving capacity utilization (two imports projects) and increasing
1/ This section is substantially the same as the corresponding part of the
President's Report for the Water Supply and Sewerage Engineering Project
(P-3653-EGT), distributed to the Board on October 5, 1983.
2/ This includes the Construction Industry Project (US$100 million)
scheduled to be presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year.



production capacity and supply of essential co odities in resource-based
industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement, steel and fertilizer projects).
The more fundamental effort has been directed at introducing policy and
structural improvements. Towards this end, the Bank has financed six
subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp and paper, food
processing, metals, and engineering industries, in order to assist the
Government in formulating a package of policy and investment proposals for
external financing. The Bank has provided substantial resources to Etypt's
private sector through financial intermediaries, a growing proportion of which
is reaching small-scale industrial enterprises. The Bank has also assisted
the Government in a comprehensive study of the construction industry with the
aim of strengthening its overall operations and removing the bottleneck it
represents to timely project execution. Finally, the Bank has discussed with
the Government a study of Trade Strategy and Investment Planning to assist the
Government in defining its trade strategy and priority investments, as well as
a study on promoting manufactured exports.
24.      The illustrative sketch discussed above is representative of the
multifaceted approach that the Bank has adopted in varying degrees in the
entire spectrum of the Egyptian economy. Projects being prepared for future
lending will follow this strategy, and the pipeline includes activities in
vocational training, power and gas development, energy conservation, public
sector reform, export promotion, transportation, water supply, agriculture
(including drainage), construction industry, industry, and further support for
development finance.
25.      Bank and IDA disbursements in FY83 represented 8% of Egypt's medium-
and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total external debt
outstanding and disbursed were about 4Z and 3X, respectively, as of June 30,
1983. In FY86, the Bank and IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and
disbursed (excluding military debts) are estimated to reach about 7.5% and
4.4Z, respectively. It is estimated that in FY86, debt service payments to
the Bank and IDA will be about 5.72 and 0.2Z, respectively, of Egypt's
external debt service payments. With regard to disbursements, FY83 saw a
marked improvement over FY82, with Bank/IDA disbursements to Egypt increasing
from US$199 million to US$255 million. The Egyptian Government has placed a
high priority on improving overall project implementation, and it is
introducing monitoring practices to follow up the progress of projects
closely. As a result it is expected that loan/credit disbursements should
continue to increase in the future.
26.      IFC's equity participations and lending commitments for projects in
Egypt as of March 31, 1984 totalled about US$189 million and include: a
ceramics project, a ready-made garment project, a project for an agricultural
complex primarily for sugar beet, a poultry project, a fish farming project, a
building material project, a tourism project and a reinforcing bar project.
IFC is discussing several other private sector and joint venture projects. A
summary of IFC operations in Egypt is given in Annex II.
I



- 8 -
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND ITS FINANCING
Pattern of Industrial Growth
27.      Growth. The pace of industrial development in Egypt has been very
uneven. Despite fairly high investment in manufacturing and mining (excluding
petroleum) during the last three decades -- representing about 25% of total
gross fixed investment -- industry's share in GDP is estimated at only 14X
while providing 12% of total employment in the country. Industrial production
grew fairly rapidly during 1947-50, 1959-64 and 1975-83 but suffered slowdowns
in the intervening periods. The relative importance of industry in total
economic activitv also declined as a result of the faster growth of the
petroleum, construction and distribution sectors after 1973. Output growth in
the industrial sector has averaged 8% annually during 1974-83 -- somewhat
below the rate of GDP growth. Constraints in the availability and effective
use of foreign exchange for import of machinery, semi-finished inputs and raw
materials have had a greater impact on the sector's overall performance than
insufficient additions to capital formation.
28.      Ownership.  The state capitalism of the 1950s and widespread
nationalizations in the early 1960s virtually eliminated the private sector
from large and to a lesser extent from medium scale manufacturing industry and
mining by 1963. Although small scale private firms continued to operate,
price controls and the shortage of foreign exchange soon became disincentives
to new investment. In spite of the liberalization process initiated in 1973,
the bulk of the industrial sector continues to be under Government control.
The 250 state enterprises account for 66% of the value of total industrial
production and 58% of total industrial employment. The basic industries
(steel, engineering, aluminum, fertilizer, chemicals, cement, cotton yarn and
fabrics, glass, etc.) are largely in public hands. The share of the private
sector, which is today almost synonymous with small and medium scale industry
(SMI), in total industrial output has, however, increased rapidly during the
last decade -- from less than a quarter to one-third -- and this appears to be
a continuing trend, reflecting both the shift in Government policy and the
greater vitality of the private sector. There are about 7,500 privately owned
small and medium scale industrial enterprises and about 250,000 artisanal
enterprises in Egypt, mostly located in the two largest cities, Cairo and
Alexandria. In 1981/82, these enterprises generated about 5% of total GDP and
accounted for 5.3% of total investment. SMI activity is concentrated in
building materials (25%), engineering products (24%) and textiles (21%), while
artisans are mainly engaged in woodworking (34X), leather products (16%) and
metallurRv and engineering (10Z).
29.      Production and Structure.  Total factor productivity showed modest
growth during 1945-62, a rapid deterioration during 1963-70 and resumed growth
since 1974, the decline in the intervening periods being largely attributable
to the Government's employment policy, although poor management of exchange
budgets and import procedures and the maladministration of the public sector
also had an adverse effect. The capital and energy intensity of industrial
production has increased slightlv since 1964. The structure of output and
orientation of industry have changed somewhat during the last decade, with the
share of engineering goods increasing from 11% to 13%, although the production



- 9 -
of consumer goods remains dominant.  The shares of consumer goods,
intermediate goods and capital goods in manufacturing value added were 512,
36Z and l3Z, respectively, in 1981. Textiles and foodstuffs continue to be
the two largest activities.  Egvpt's industrialization has historically been
inward looking: only about 7% of total industrial production is exported and
the constant dollar value of industrial exports has declined over the last
decade. This characteristic of import substitution has persisted through the
many changes in the economic svstem.
Policy Framework and Challenges
30.      The post-1973 redirection of economic policies vas designed to
reinstate the private sector in all areas of activity including industrial
production, distribution, finance and foreign trade. The liberalization
measures included new investment 'Laws and changes in trade and foreign
exchange regulations, as well as efforts to decentralize control over the
public sector. The transition from a largely centrally planned system to a
mixed mar3ket economy has proved difficult and is still under way a decade
later. However, the response of private sector industry to the new policies
has been a satisfactory grovth of 12 in real terrs during 1975-82. Public
sector production grew by 72 over the same period as the public sector
enterprises improved their capacity utilization and started to modernize their
plants. With the levelling off of the exogenous resource flows (para. 9),
Egyptian policvmakers have realized that only a major structural
transformation of the economy, leading to a massive increase in industrial
output and a rapid build-up of manufactured exports, can sustain its growth in
the coming decades. The Government gave some recognition to this situation in
the Five Year Plani (para. 12) by allocating about 25% of total investment to
the industrial sector; about 21% of this is earmarked for the private sector.
Industrial output is expected to grow at an average annual rate of 9.5% during
the Plan period, compared to the overall growth rate of 8% achieved in the
past.
31.      The problems facing the sector that must be confronted by the
policymakers in the coming years include the need for greater employment
generation, higher exports, more efficient utilization of capital, efficient
import substitution, and the development of a comprehensive framework to
promote the private sector, particularlv small scale industry. In general,
employment has failed to keep pace with output growth because much of the
additional production derived from increased utilization of existing plant
(made possible by the easing of supply constraints) and more productive use of
the existing labor force. According to the generally accepted scenario of
relative employment saturation in agriculture and the service/distribution
sectors, and the levelling off of the outflow of Egyptian migrant workers,
industry is considered to be the primary source for absorbing future increases
in the labor force. The public sector is already heavily overstaffed; thus
the private sector will be where labor absorption will be the greatest. From
the economic standpoint this is regarded as highly beneficial, as the cost per
job in the private sector is substantially lower than in the public sector,
labor productivity is much higher, and imports per unit of employment are
considerably lower (about one-third that of the public sector).



- 10 -
32.      The sector's poor export performance reflects the traditional
strategy of high import tariffs, reliance on cotton for exchange earnings, and
planuing for self-sufficiency that cumulated in discrimination against
exports. Between 1970 and 1982, the value of industrial exports declined from
312 to 10% of merchandise exports as a result of the decline in industrial
exports and the rapid increase in petroleum exports. The decline was larger
in the private than in the public sector. By 1982, about 86Z of the exports
were by the public sector - as the private sector responded to the loss of
the Eastern European markets due to political realignments by concentrating on
exploiting the expanding, heavily protected and more profitable domestic
market. The structural transformation of the economy referred to above
requires non-oil exports to grow at about 14Z per annum - about twice the
rate of estimated GDP growth -- and the stimulus for this growth would
necessarily have to come from manufacturing and mining. The Government began
to address the poor export performance of the manufacturing sector in earnest
last year. Corrective policy decisions are under wav to reform the exchange
rate and tariff regimes, establish new institutions, improve export and import
control procedures, and provide credit facilities and incentives to potential
exporters.
33.      Industry has been a privileged sector in that its share of total
investment has exceeded its contribution to the GDP during the last three
decades. The fault lies not only with bad planning and investment decisions
in the past but also with the wrong policy environment and poor management
which have resulted in continuing under-utilization of industrial capacity.
The financial performance of public sector manufacturing enterprises has been
poor and the gap between the savings generated and investment requirements is
widening. This is largely the result of the lack of control by the
enterprises over crucial decisions such as price setting, wages and employment
which are essentially determined by the Government. Various studies and
technical assistance programs ,re now under way to support reforms that would
aTeliorate this situation.
3C.      The current Five Year Plan places significant emphasis on private
sector industrial investment but this can only be realized fully if there is
action in the following areas; (i) formulation of clear guidelines regardint
the role of the private sector; (ii) reform of the tariff structure; (iii)
upgradinz of the infrastructure support to industry, particularly the
construction/contracting industry, which is a major bottleneck in the
implementation of projects; and (iv) minimization of bureaucratic controls.
The Government is already addressing most of these issues in the context of
its export promotion drive (para. 32) and the strengthening of the
construction industry (para. 23); both activities are supported by two
parallel projects proposed for Bank assistance (Construction Industry and
Export Promotion).
35.      In addition to the more general problems, small scale industry (SSI)
and artisans face particular difficulties that need to be corrected if they
are to expand their role in the economv. An area requiring special attention
is their limited access to institutional finance, especially the difficultv in
obtaining foreign exchange, which has resulted in low capacity utilization
because of the lack of raw materials, shortages of spare parts, and aging and
obsolete equipment. The prevalence of bureaucratic controls, licensing and



- 11 -
heavy reporting requirements proves particularly burdensome for these
enterprises because of their scarce management resources. Another constraint
faced by SSI and artisanal enrzrprises is that of space for expansion since
most start their activities in congested urban centers amidst residential
dwellings and commercial offices. The development of industrial estates or
other related infrastructure would be a great encouragement to their growth.
New and expanding SSI entrepreneurs require assistance in the form of
extension programs on the mvriad aspects of starting and operating enterprises
such as markets, the choice of technology and process, design of plant and
layout of production lines, planning and budgeting and improving
productivity. The shortage of skilled workers as a result of migration has
become a severe problem for the entire industrial sector, although it often
affects the larger (SMI) enterprises more than the smaller ones, whicL mainlv
utilize family labor. Adequate training programs in various trades are
required to meet these shortages. An effective strategy for developing the
SSI/artisan sector must address these particular problems together with the
more general policy constraints of the industrial sector. The Government has
begun to deal with some of these problems through technical assistance
programs which have received assistance from the Bank (paras. 48 and 49). The
proposed project would provide further support to the Government's efforts to
assist private sector industries, particularly SSI, in tackling these
problems. In addition, i: was agreed during negotiations that the Government
would prepare and introduce, within the implementation period of the proposed
project, an appropriate policv and administrative framework which would be
conducive to the rapid development of the SSI/artisan sector and would fully
address the constraints mentioned above.
Private Industrial Finance
36.      The financial svstem has expanded rapidlv in the last decade and
today consists of about 80 banks of various kinds. The Central Bank of Egypt
(CBE) regulates the banking sector, besides being actively involved in
formulating and implementing monetary and credit policies. While credit for
business bas expanded dramatically in recent vears -- growing at an annual
rate of 25Z in the last five years -- credit exceeding one year has been about
15% of the total and borrowers rely on rolling over their debts for longer
term needs. Even the newly foried investment banks have restricted their term
lending to 25% of their portfolio. The two stock exchanges at Cairo and
Alexandria are only secondary markets; thev list 22% of the registered
enterprises, and trading activitv is very small.  The Capita' Markets
Authority, established in 1979 as a regulatory body, is trying to promote
development of the capital markets and broaden the equity ownership of
enterprises. The primary sources of equity financing, besides family and
friends, are subscriptions invited through newspaper advertisements and
underwritten bv the commercial banks. The Misr Iran Development Bank (MIDB)
has catered, to a limited extent, to the long term needs of the medium and a
few large scale private enterprises. Agroindustry has received significant
lending in the last few years from the Principal Bank for Development and
Agricultural Credit (PBDAC). While medium scale enterprises can to some
extent draw upon conmercial banks and these institutions for investment and
working capital, these facilities are not freely available to the small scale
and handicraft enterprises -- the higher risk and costs involved being adverse
factors. These latter enterprises rely largely on specialized banks such as



- 12 -
the Development Industrial Bank (DIB) for their medium and long term needs.
Althougb still relatively small in the larger financial spectrum, DIB bas
played an increasinglv important role in financing the long term needs of
private sector industry. During the Plan period it is expected to provide
about 25Z of total private sector industrial investment.
37.      CBE establishes interest rates for all local currency operations
while rates for foreign currency commercial funds are set by the market.
Local currency lending rates are differentiated by sector and purpose; they
were generally negative between 1976-82 and now range from 13% to 15% compared
to projected inflation rates of 14% this year, and 13Z and 12% in the next two
years. Foreign currency commercial lending is at LIBOR plus 1% to 2%, while
interest rates for official aid funds are determined ad hoc by CBE but
generally equal local currency long term rates. Under the project, DIB would
charge 14% which, along witb obligatory deposits and other cbarges, amounts to
an effective rate in excess of 16%.
Foreign Exchange
38.      There are currentlv three different foreign exchange pools in Egypt
-  the Central Bank pool, the commercial bank pool and the free market -  each
with its own sources and uses of funds and with separate excbange rates. All
transactions in the Central Bank pool are at the official rate whicb has been
set at 70 piastres to the dollar since 1979. This pool is supplied by
receipts from Suez Canal dues, petroleum and some agricultural exports, and
funds are used primarily to service external government debt and to finance
imports of basic supply commodities. The commercial bank pool is supplied
mainly by cash remittances from Egyptians working abroad, tourism receipts and
the remaining non-oil exports. An official commercial bank exchange rate was
introduced as a separate rate in August 1981 and has remained fixed at 84
piastres to the dollar. Although the official commercial bank rate remains
fixed, many transactions, including remittance transfers, tourist receipts,
and import payments, now occur at rates between 108 and 116 piastres to the
dollar, close to the own exchange rate. The "free" or own exchange market is
supplied by remittances from Egyptians working abroad, and some tourist
receipts. Private individuals and companies can buy foreign exchange at a
freely floating rate in order to finance imports or to invest in
dollar-denominated assets. Over the past vear, the free market rate has
fluctuated between 110 and 125 piastres to the dollar. Since the second half
of 1982, the Government has been engaged in a dialogue on the exchange rate
regime with the IMF. In April 1983 the Government introduced an important
reform, allowing exporters to receive the most favorable exchange rate, i.e.
the free market rate.
Bank's role
39.      The Bank has assisted in the development of the industrial sector in
the last decade by (i) identifying and analyzing problems, recommending
strategies through reports such as the "Issues of Trade Strategy and
Investment Planning" and "A Program for the Development of Manufactured
Exports", and providing technical assistance through loans such as the
engineering loans for phosphate mining and processing and iron/steel projects;



- 13 -
(ii) participating in the financing of new projects and supporting the
expansion and rehabilitation of existing public sector enterprises in the
textile, pulp and paper, cement, fertilizer and ironlsteel sub-sectors; (iii)
supplving foreign exchange through program loans to help improve capacity
utilization; and (iv) providing finance and expertise for new and growing
medium, small and artisanal enterprises through intermediaries such as the
MIDB, DIB and PBDAC, througb six industrial and two agroindustrial credit
operations with total lendimg of $446.2 million. The five industrial credits
channelled through the DIB (and its predecessor, a special unit in the Bank of
Alexandria) were designed to promote the development of the private industrial
sector and also assist the DIB to develop its institutional capability. The
Project Performance Audit Report recently prepared for tte first two
industrial credits, while recognizing the significant contribution made by DIB
to the promotion of SKI, noted institutional weaknesses in several areas:
project appraisal and supervision; budgeting, accounting, financial control
and management information svstems; and resource mobilization. Under the
proposed project, measures would be taken to help correct these deficiencies.
Through December 31, 1983, DIB has made 652 subloans out of B-nk/IDA funds for
a total of USS225 million. These loans have generated a total investment of
US$800 million and have created about 98,800 jobs in diverse subsectors,
mainly chemicals and paper, food processing, engineering, building and
construction, and textiles. The proposed project would continue the Bank's
support for the small and medium scale private industrial sector, but with an
increasing emphasis on the SSIlartisan subsector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.      The project was identified by Bank staff in cooperation with the
Egyptian authorities as a follow-on project to DIB V (Loan 2074-EGT). It was
appraised in November 1983. NeRotiations were held in Washington from May 21
to Mav 24, 1984, with the Egyptian delegation led by Dr. Ahmed El Dersh,
Undersecretary in the Kinistry of Investment and International Cooperation. A
Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Small and Medium Scale Industrv Project' (No.
5030-EGT) dated May 29, 1984 is being distributed separately.
Project Objectives and Description
41.      The proposed project would support a program for the development of
small and medium scale industries (SMI) in Egypt through a line of credit to
the Development Industrial Bank (DIB) and technical assistance to SMI. Its
main objectives, which are consistent with the Five Year Plan (para. 12), are:
(i)   to help the development of SMI and therebv contribute to the
Government's objectives of encouraging the private sector and
fostering employment creation;
(ii) to improve the productivity and efficiency of SMI through a
comprehensive technical assistance program; and
(iii) to further develop the institutional capacity in Egypt for
identifying and financing viable and priority industrial
projects.



- 14 -
Financial Assistance to DIB
42.      The Institution.  DIB was establisbed in 1975 witb Bank assistance
and took over the functions and part of the portfolio of a special services
unit of the Bank of Alexandria. It operates from a head office in Cairo and
three branches in Cairo, Alexandria and Tanta; two further branches in lOtb of
Ramadan Citv and Port Said are planned for 1984.  Its paid-in capital of LE 34
million (USS40 million equivalent) is held by the Government. As a public
sector bank, DIB is subject to supervision bv the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE)
and thus operates within public sector limitations in such areas as salaries
and incentives. DIB's headquarters organization was reorganized in mid-1983
to cope with its enlarged operations. The loan approval autbority of its
branches has recentlv been increased frow LE 200,000 to LE 300,000, and the
procedures for review of brancb cases at the head office have been streamlined.
43.      To improve project appraisal and supervision (para. 39), a project
advisor was engaged in March 1984 under EEC funds. The large number of loans
in DIB's portfolio makes periodic contact witb all borrowers difficult.
During negotiations, DIB agreed to prepare and introduce, with the assistance
of the advisor, an improved project supervision system acceptable to the Bank
by December 31, 1984, and to employ additional project staff. DIB has
recently obtained the approval of CBE to take measures which would effectively
raise staff emoluments by about 50%, and has agreed to continue to review
these emoluments annually and make further upward adjustments in financial
incentives. This should help DIE to recruit and retain qualified staff. A
substantial program of technical assistance under USAID is being undertaken
with the help of consultants. DIB has accepted the consultants'
recommendations to improve its budgeting, accountins, financial control and
management information systems and these are currently under implementation.
In addition, DIB has agreed to strengthen its internal audit procedures and
reinforce its economic appraisal of projects by December 31, 1984, taking into
account the consultants' recommendations.  Economic appraisals need to be
improved by more extensive use of shadow prices for inputs, and application of
more realistic assumptions on variables (including capital costs, exchange
rate, debt servicing, project implementation schedules, unit production costs,
and unit profit margins) to be used in the sensitivity analysis.
"4.      With regard to resource mobilization, DIB is already reducing its
dependence on CBE for local funds and is borrowing from other banks. Its
projected foreign exchange resource needs of USS329 million over the period
July 1984 - June 1987 are expected to be met fr-om the Bank, the Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederaufbau, the European Investment Bank and the African Development
Bank, as well as from the capital markets. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from DIB that it would commit at least US$25 million per year
during the period January 1985-December 1987 from sources other than the
Bank. DIB's resource mobilization activities will be reviewed by the Bank at
the end of each year and further commitments under the proposed loan would be
continued only if DIB meets the above requirement. In addition, in order to
reduce its dependence on official sources of financing and to diversifv its
financial resources, DIB would endeavor to the extent possible to mobilize
funds from commercial sources (Proiect Agreement, Section 4.09).



- 15 -
45.      Operations and Financial Position.  DIB doubled its lending
operations between 1981 and 1983; at the same time, the proportion of its
medium and long term foreign currencv operations increased to a predominant
position. Its portfolio is sound, and reserves and provisions for doubtful
loans are satisfactory. Between 1979 and 1983, before tax return on average
equity ranged between 14Z and 30% per annum, and assets grew at an average
annual rate of over 40Z. In 1984-87, return on equitv is estimated to be
26-31Z. DIB's liquidity position is satinfactory, and its long-term
debt/equity ratio was 7.3:1 as of June 30, 1983, witbin the 8:1 limit fixed
under DIB V. Given DIB's satisfactcry financial position, it is proposed to
allow DIB to increase its debt/equity ratio to 9:1 under the proposed project
(Project Agreement, Section 4.04).
46.      Bank-Financed Operations. Up to June 1983, over 70% of DIB's foreign
currency resources were provided by Bank/IDA funds through two credits (US$15
million and US$25 million) and three loans (US$40 million, US$50 million and
US$120 million), as well as through two agroindustries projects, under which
DIB is one of the participating institutions. While DIB's initial
inexperience led to some delays in the comuitment of funds under the first two
credits, comitments and disbursements under subsequent loans have been on or
ahead of schedule. Commitments under DIB V as of December 31, 1983 amounted
to USg98 million, well above the projected level of US$80 million.
47.      Under the proposed loan, DIB would use the credit line of US$168.1
million for financing industrial projects in the private sector. Based on
past operations and DIB's project pipeline, most of the subprojects are likely
to be for the manufacture of food products, textiles, ready-made garments,
furniture, plastic and leather products, engineering goods, and building
materials. At least 70% of the loan proceeds would be used to finance SKI,
which are defined as enterprises with fixed assets (excluding land and
buildings) not exceeding LE 2.75 million in 1983 prices (Loan Agreement,
Section 1.02(h); Project Agreement, Section 2.02(b)(i)). In line with
agreements reached under DIB V, DIB will increase its overall term loan
approvals for SSI to 40% in 1984. These targets would be further increased to
45% in 1985 and 50X in 1986 and subsequent years. Within the above taryets,
DIB's term loan approvals for very small SSI would be at least 20% of the
total approvals (Project Agreement, Section 2.07). SSI and very small SSI are
defined as enterprises with total fixed assets (excluding land and buildings)
not exceeding LE 420,000 and LE 210,000, respectively. in 1983 prices. DIB
has so far provided more than 7,000 loans to SSI and artisans. To handle the
expected increase in lending to very small SSI and artisans, DIB has recently
created special divisions in its head office and in each branch.
Technical Assistance
48.      Under the proposed project, the technical assistance to SMI begun as
a pilot program under DIB III and continued under DIB V (as Phase II) would be
expanded in scope and coverage and extended for a period of three vears
beginning in Januarv 1985 (Phase III).



- 16 -
49.      Phase II comprised technical extension and financial and management
services to SMI, training of SMI staff, owners and managers, and establishment
of a subcontracting exchange. The foreign currency cost of the program (US$1
million) was financed under DIB V, while the local cost (LE 355,000) is being
provided by the Government. The program is being implemented by the
Engineering and Industrial Design Development Centre (EIDDC). Despite some
initial delays, progress has been generally satisfactory.
50.      Phase III aims to increase the number of extension teams; increase
regional coverage; continue financial, management and training services; fully
streamline the operations of the subcontracting exchange; and set up a new
project development and implementation unit. It would be implemented by
EIDDC's Small Scale Industries and Training Department and have the following
components:
(i)   Technical Extension Services:  The Cairo unit is to be expanded
from four to eight mobile teams by December 1985 and the
Alexandria unit to three teams. Two new units would be
started, one at Tanta co serve the Delta area and one at
Ismailia to cover the Suez Canal area. About 1,300 SMI per
year are expected to be served on completion of this expanded
program. ErDDC has adequate capacity to handle the projected
demand from SMI for technical assistance. The program would be
run by a foreign advisor for a 12-month term until December 31,
1985, after which a national expert would take over;
ii) Management and Training Services: Under this component, the
management and financial services and the training programs for
S3I set up under Phase II would be merged. The management
advisory service would be staffed by 7 specialists qualified in
financial management, marketing and production management. The
training services would design short (2-3 week) training
courses in a range of crades, processes, and technical
subjects, and in management. The unit would have the services
of a foreign advisor for 15 staff months up to December 31,
1986;
(iii) Project Development and Information Services: A new unit is to
be set up in Cairo to collect and disseminate to SMI
entrepreneurs information on export marketing opportunities,
demand trends, market size, availability of raw materials, and
legislation, regulation and taxation affecting SMI;
(iv) Subcontracting Services: The subcontracting exchange proposed
under Phase II will begin in Siptember 1984. Under Phase III,
it would be streamlined (using 6 staff months of advisory
, nd t.he n-ror-ment for excharee of information
between EIDDC and the Federation of Egyptian Industries, which
has not been act.vated so far, would be implemented;
(v)   Staff Training:  In order to build up a group of competent
advisory and extension staff, the program of staff training
abroad would be continued; about 16-18 staff are expected to
participate; and



- 17 -
(vi) Short-term consultants: Experts would be recruited either
locallv or from abroad as needed for up to a total of 45 staff
months, including 27 staff months of foreign advisory services,
to study specific industry-related problems in such areas as
footwear and leather, plastic products, food products,
ready-made garments and ceramics.
51.      The foreign currency cost of the program, estimated at US$1.5
million, includes {i) 60 staff months of foreign advisory services; (ii)
equipment and vehicles; (iii) computer hardware and software, training
equipment and office equipment; and (iv) support and overbead costs for the
foreign experts. The local currencv cost, estimated at LE 1.6 million, is to
be provided by the Government. As under Phase II, DIB clients would receive
priority in assistance; the protocol of cooperation between EIDDC and DIB
sigaed under Phase It would be extended.
52.      EIDDC would continue to submit quarterly reports on the
implementation of the program. A detailed system of evaluation of the results
of the program, calling for a survey of 10% of the firms assisted under anv of
the prosram components, was prescribed under Phase II. The first sucb
evaluation was completed in April 1984 and the same system is proposed to be
continued for both monitoring and evaluation of the Phase III program.
Main Features of the Loan
53.      The proposed Bank loan of US170 million would be made to the
Government of Egypt at the variable interest rate. The Government would
onlend USA168.1 million out of tne proceeds of the loan to DIB at the interest
rate prevailing at the time of Board approval plus one percentage point, and
transfer the technical assistance component (US$1.5 million) to EIDDC as a
grant. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
DIB would be a condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01). DIB
would repav the loan to the Government substantially in accordance with the
amortization schedules of the subloans (para. 55). DIB would onlend the line
of credit to eligible enterprises at a minimum interest rate of 14% (Project
Agreement, Section 2.05(a)).  The Government would bear the foreign exchange
risk between the US dollar and the other currencies owed to the Bank. The
subborrowers would bear the exchange risk between the US dollar and the
Egyptian pound and repay their subloans in local currency at the higbest
exchange rate between the Egvptian pound and the US dollar declared by CBE at
the time of repayment (Project Agreement, Section 2.05(e)). As DIB requires
compensatory deposits of around 20% of foreign cownitment, together with
comnitment charges, from its borrowers, the effective ioterest rate und2r the
subloans would be 16% per annum (para. 37). During the commitment period of
the proposed loan, therefore, this interest rate is expected to be positive in
real terms considering the Bank's latest estimated inflation rates: 14% in
1983/84, declining to 12% by 1986/87. Furthermore, to ensure the attainment
of this objective, the interest rate structure would be reviewed on an annual
basis to reflect possible changes in inflation rates and the cost of similar
funds in Egypt (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(a)(iv)).



- 18 -
54.      The maximum interest spread of DIB on the proposed Bank loan would be
3.52; anv margin over this limit would be transferred to the Government. DIE
would also transfer a sum equal to 0.42Z of the outstanding subloan amount out
of its interest income under the proposed loan to a special fund to be
established within DIB by December 31, 1984 to help finance the loal currencv
cost of the technical assistance for SMI (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04(c);
Project Agreement, Section 2.08). It is estimated that DIB would transfer LE
696,000 in a vear to the fund at the peak period of loan outstanding. The
Government's obligation to provide local currency funds to EIDDC (para. 51)
could be met from amounts to be transferred from the fund. Since the
Government has begun to make adjustments in its foreign exchange rate regime
it has been agreed that the Borrower, the Bank and the Participating Banks
will, before subloan commitments, review the effective cost of capital (taking
into consideration the nominal interest rate, applicable exchange rate and
otber necessary premia) with a view to setting it at an appropriate level.
55.      Subloans would be made on terms not exceeding 15 years, including up
to three vears of grace. As a commitment period for subloans of three years
is proposed from the date of signing of the loan, the final maturity of the
loan from DIB to the Government would fall within 18 years (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.02(a)(i)). The Government would repay the loan in 20 years,
including 5 years of grace.
56.      To ensure that a large number of subprojects receive assistance, the
limit on subloan size would be US$5 million. It is expected that only a few
subloans would be above US$2 million and that 450 to 500 subprojects would
receive financial assistance. The free limit for subloans would be US$1.25
million. It is estimated that about 45 subprojects, representing about 60% of
the total credit line, would be above this limit. Economic and financial
rates of return would be calculated for all subprojects receiving term
financing and having a total investment cost above LE 800,000. The eligible
subprojects would have a minimum economic rate of return of 12% and a minimum
financial rate of return not less than the nominal interest rates of DIB
applicable to foreign currencv subloans (minimum 14%) (Project Agreement,
Sections 2.02(b)(ii), 2.02(c), and 2.06).
Procurement and Disbursement
57.      Procurement procedures would be consistent with those provided under
previous industrial credits. DIB would require its subborrowers to follow
normal international shopping procedure% with comparison of offers from at
least three suppliers. A review of DIB's procurement procedures has shown
that these procedures are satisfactory to the Bank and result in procurement
of suitable equipment at a reasonable price. In the case of "off the shelf"
purchases, which mav be required by some SSI, 60% of the local purchase cost
of imported products would be eligible for financing as "indirect" foreign
exchange cost.
58.      In view of the large number of small subloans expected to be financed
by DIB, and considering the need for expeditious payments to suppliers,
Statements of Expenditure (SOE) would be used for reimbursement of contracts
below US$20,000. All supporting documents for disbursements covered under SOE
would be made available on request to the Bank's supervision missions. and an
independent auditor would verify all SOE within four months after the end of
each financial vear. The last date for submission of subloan applications to
the Bank would be June 30, 1987 and the closing date of the loan would be
December 31, 1990.



- l O 
Audits and Accounts
59.      As has been the case under the previous industrial credits, DIB would
submit to the BLnk periodic reports which would include a summary of
operations and progress on utilization of the loan, as well as annual accounts
and audit reports. EIDDC would submit quarterly reports on the progress of
the various components of the technical assistance program for SMI. DIB and
EIDDC would also submit a report on completion of the project.
Project Benefits and Risks
60.      Bv supporting the promotion of small and medium scale industries in
the private sector, the project would contribute to the development of a more
competitive and efficient industrial sector, while its emphasis on financing a
growing number of artisan aod SSI enterprises should result in greater
employment at a lower average capital investment. Most significantly, the
project would provide credit to a group that has generally been denied access
to term financing and contribute to the broadening of business ownership in
Egypt.  Since SSI do not normally require a well-developed infrastructure,
remote areas of the countrv can also experience gradual industrialization and
a share in new economic opportunities. Further institutional strengthening of
DIB should result in more efficient resource mobilization and allocation. The
technical assistance component would increase the productivity and efficiencv
of SMI through extension services and develop more effective coordination
between large industries and SMI through subcontracting services. The project
would provide financial assistance to 450-500 enterprises; in addition, about
1,300 enterprises per year would receive tecbnical assistance to improve their
productivity and efficiency. On the basis of experience under the earlier
industrial credits to DIB, the project is expected to create about 71,000 new
jobs, many of wl'ich would be for workers at the lower levels of the income
distribution scale. The average investment cost per job created is expected
to be around US$8,100 (in 1982 prices), about one-third of the estimated
marginal investment cost per job for the Egyptian industrial sector as a whole.
61.      The project risks are mainly in the areas of meeting overall targets
for assistance to SSI by DIB and timely implementation of the technical
assistance program by EMDDC. So far, DIB has met its objectives for lending
to SSI and is making special institutional adjustments to foster its
assistance to smaller SSI and artisans. As regards technical assistance to
SMI, EIDDC's performance under the existing program has been generally
satisfactory and its management and staff have gained more experience over
time and should be able to perform as expected. At any rate, the Bank
proposes to supervise to the technical assistance program closely to ensure
its success. The risks, therefore, are considered to be minimal and the
project should be carried out within the intended period.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Development
Industrial Bank (DIB), and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 20 -
63.      Features of the project which are of special interest are listed in
Section III of Annex Ill. A special condition of effectiveness of the Bank
loan is the execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and DIB (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
64.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Azreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 1, 1984



ANNEX I
-21-                                        Page 1 of 6
EcYp  A"ARS REP. Or    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EcTPT. ARAD REP. OF                 REFERENCE CROUPS (ISEIHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                    (POsr RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
IgGolb                          MIDDRECENT  NLE INCOME  aDODLE INCOE
19*0-      iqro19    ESTfIAiTFb    M. AFRICA a KID EAST   LAT. AIRICA & CARII
-A   (TURAI SQ. SW
TOrAt.                           1001.4      1001.4     1001.4                *
ACRICULTURAL                       26.3        28.4       28.6
GNP PEE CAPrTA (cs$)                 100.0       180.0      650.0           1340.0                   2088.2
E11=E COISIrTOM PMR CAPITA
(KILOCRANS Or C7AL FQIUIvALEI'r)  287.0       312.0      595.0             810.4                   1407.6
aATION AM VITAL STISTICS
FOPULATINN.K1I-YEAR (TUOUSANDS)  25832.0    33053.0    43290.0
URBAN POPULATION t: OF TOTAL)      37.9        42.3       44.3             47.4                     65.9
POPCLATION PROJECTIONS
POrULArION IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                          63.8
STATIONARY POPIULATION (MILL)                          116-7
YEAR STATIOKARY POP. REACHED                           2115
POPULATION DENSITY
PER So. eK                       25.8        33.0       43.2              36.0                     35.6
PER SQ. L4. AGRI. LAWN          982.2      1162.h     1481.2            449.0                     93.2
POPULATIOS ACE STRCCTLRE (2)
0-14 TRS                        42.2        41.8       30.5             43.9                      40.1
15-64 YRS                        54-7        54.9       56.9             52.8                      55.8
h5 AW ARGE                        3.1         3.2        3.5              3.3                      4.1
POPtLATION QIOVTN RATE (:)
TOTAL                             1.3         2.5        2.5              2.9                      2.3
rREAs                             4.0         3.6        2.9               4.6                      3.7
CMODE IRTH RAKTE (PER TIWhUS)      43.5        38.5       35.7             42.5                      31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOI3S)      19.0        15.1       11.7             12.0                      8.1
iROSS REPRODUCTIUHN RATE            3.0         2.7        2.3              3.0                       2.0
FAMILY PLANWINC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)          *-       206.0      357.0
IISERS (2 aF MARRIED WOMEN)        ..         9.0       17.0
POW AM NUTRMITON
INMEX OF Foe PROr. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      96.0        99.0       88.0             97.5                     113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (t OF RSIUIAEirTrs)    109.0       107.0      117.0             102.3                    111.1
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)        7J.0         74.0       76.0             72.0                     67.9
OF WITCH ANIMAL AND PULSE       19.0         7.0       19.01e            17.8                     34.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE        34.0          ..       16.4             15.2                       5.3
RfUTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)      46.1        51.3       56.9              57.2                     64.6
INFANT HORT. PATE (PER THOUS)     128.0          ..      IlO.Otc          204.2                     62.6
ACCESS TO SAFf IATER  .POP)
TorAL                                          * -      66.0td            59.3                     64.8
URBAN                            39.5                   88.07d           84.9                      77.8
RURAL                                                   so.o71            37.5                     44.3
ACCESS TO EXCFEETA DISPOSAL
t OF POIPULATtON)
TOTAL                              ..          ..         ..                ..                     54.6
URRAN                              ..          ..         ..                ..                     69.8
RURAL                              ..          ..         ..                ..                     29.8
POPUIATION FER PHSiCIAm         '*550.0      1900.0      970.0/f         3536.0                   L776.0
POP. PER NURSINC PERSON          IS'Y.O/e.f  1620.0f   1500.071          1820.7                   1032.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL RIED
TOTAL                           4D0.0       460.0      480.Old           643.3                    477.0
URRAN                           510.0/e    360.0       680.47;1          s,5.0                    667.5
RMrAL                          2190.07;   2170.0      2410.07j          2462.0                   1921.6
ADHISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..                   30.8/d           26.4                     27.2
AVERAGE SIZE OF OUSENOLD
T OTAL                             ..          ..         5.2/d
URBAN                             4.8          ..        5.07.
RURAL                                                       -
AVERAGE NO. Or PERSONS/RoO*I
TOTAL                              ..          ..        1.8/d
URBA                              3.6          ..         .                 ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. CE OF DWLINCS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..       45.71d            46.2
UBAN                             37.8                   76.9/d            77.6
RURAL                              ..          ..      I1.67i             16.1



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                   Page 2 of 6
EGYPT. ACE REP. oP    - SocIAL INDICATORS DATA SRfTC
EGTPTi ACAE REP. OrF               RXEPEEIE GRtOUPS (VICWD AWhAh) In
MOST                     (CET RECCNCT ESTItATE) /b
RECENT             MIDLE INCCIQ           mIDDLC TIOcIE
196&-      1970/  'STIMATSb    M. ARIaCA * NMD EAST   LAY. AMCRICA 6 CAIUD
WICATIOU
ADJUSTED ENR(LLPENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                   66.0       72.0        76.0             89.6                    105.0
MALE                   80.0        81.0       89.0             104.8                    106.3
FEMALE                 52.0       56.0        63.0              72.4                    103.6
SEcONDARY: TOrAL                 16.0        34.0        52.0             41.7                     40.0
MALE                   23.0       46.0        64.0              52.8                     38.6
FEMALE                  9.0       22.0        39.0              31.2                     41.2
voCATIONAL (I or SECoNDARY)        22.0        19.0        21.6             10.3                     34.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIHARY                          39.0        33.0        28.0             31.9                     30.7
SECONDARY                         16.0       25.0        24.0             23.3                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)            25.8          ..        44.0             43.3                     79.5
cotnmusi ot
PASSENCER CARS/THOUSAND POP         2.8         4.0         8.              13.0                     45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP       58.1       133.1       141.9            139.1                    228.2
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAWD POP           1.9        16.0        33.1             45.6                    108.3
NEWSPAPER C-DAILY ENERAL
INTERESr) CIRCULATION
PER TH0USAND POPULATION              .        22.5        60.0             31.0                     64.1
CINSMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA     2.6         2.1         1.8/b            1.7                      2.9
L         FOR
TOrAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)        7453.0      9241.0    11180.0
FIALE (PERCENT)                   7.3         7.2         8.0             10.7                     24.8
ACRICtLTURE (PERCENt)            58.0        54.0        50.0             42.5                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               12.0        19.0       30.0              27.8                     23.9
PARrICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             28.9       28.0        25.8             25.6                     31.3
"ALE                              53.2       51.5        47.0             45.4                     49.3
F-ALE                             4.2         4.1         4.2              5.6                     14.8
ECWNGIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.6         1.6         1.5              1.8                      1.4
INC1   DISIEWTIO
PERCEsr OF PRIVATE INCOPE
R.ECEIVED PT
NICrEST 2 OF HOUSEHOLDS           17.5/i     17.44   22.0/k
HICHEST 20 OF HOUSEHOLDS        44.4r1      42.8Th      4 49.27r     
LOWEST 2a: OF WUsE8aLDS            6.d7f      ?.O/L1    5.1-
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSENHLDS          17.571?    1i.ls:z     14.li*-
POVTR TARCCT CROUPS
ESTIMATED A8SOLUTE POVERTY T SCIKE
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URN                                 ..         ..       131.0            276.1                     289.1
RURAL                              ..          ..        94.0            177.1                    180.5
ESTtMATED RELATIVE pOVERTY rECaGE
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URMN                                ..         ..       180.0            400.0                     519.S
RunAL                              ..          ..       118.0            283.3                    372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ASOLUTrE
POVERTY INCUGE LEVEL (I)
URBAN                              ,,          ..        21.0             22.0
RURAL                              ..          ..        25.0             30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
NO T E S
/a  The group averages for each lIndicator are populationwewghted arithmetlc mnane. Coverse of conutfla omit the
indlcators depends on savlability of data and tS not ailfor.
/b Unless othe.vse noted. -Dfts for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; D-ts for 1970 boete  1969 mud
1971; and data for 'Mo.t Recent Eatiwete between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; Ie 1962; If Reglstered, not all prcttteSwE in the country; k 1978; th 1975; /S Rural expesntree;
LI 1963j Ak National, 197I75.
May 1983



- 23-                                                               ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
00    11~   W  Wo s   1oS,   1 11.001W .A .117-   j-  W D0 -a by                501011. 01 -  14 .101u MS,   10-  *00 d- 1    -*       
*010*0_~ .- _000.. *01W1           IN.  - 0    0*01    --P . W DI-l.        0.0      Wa -..                            _ _
_1          7   -     (11 1W -        an am      --  w-._ '.o      ,  M12. -a   Pft w -_ _z            _       -w t1-_    C  _. _            00
.910_ ". . 1-  ".0.0 w*0 1W- 1W  --"w-   -S- -101                         se. -- 101     0 00 24000.001  -a        101 "      10100~ -1 *- 0 0 
.Ssbw tS                              SCSS_  W          7r1_  *M            -r_ --st  .-u                L_____e -&__d_'e           um"b0t
_ _  ___-_.S .h
11.0 _0 _oW1        oo_ _1 . _*01?  0              .         O.. _01  .0_.1 __ _015  1W _0.01  10                    *  _.o _*          0 _._, ... 
41, olol - lo.                                                      L -  Io t1                              -        -PA-           P..-..& -1-  o. 1
0  iD0    _. * _ -_ _10 a.0   -  -I 1 . Low.                               _                 1
1075 1-W  3     .1-.c." 1WR - -.   01K 1                                                                                            - rowwwo- (1o.
001W. -  malI _ 301 0  r *0by    - *_I_          -   -__l0"  .0
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w    W_ PWf -tSE}-   ._W--& -. -P.ZU                                                                  ft _Ue-_ .d_ 
*0*01.0110 (10) - *0  0      .--    I-- *071   CA*rb..- .10.101W3  0111   0                                       ... *0.1S01-*0  0         ,01 1
0-                           11   _                                                          ._ _ _               osla     Lr _  y
100.350  W  ~    .  00  11.-0JL      *--1011e1 -o &-          O.1
-.                P -T0 ..00..   1W1 0  *.01101  _. _ 1 .  S,1
,                                                                                                      d .1 i0     i   _     1.  1 -c.f -_ *-P dt  -(  . _ 1
_, jp-w    1010.        ) 1.  000101-.                 o-  wL-. *01                   01.       .ft  _.4     o10n.r_ *r0  .11.0 f1t.  cW_ l          8
1*60.                                                                                              s-.1W10.0.  -   0011 301  ASs pOooSif.11 ost01. Wo0o
n2-,_   AM _C1 %_ _e_-d _                                                                               .    &1 L       _L
101W.~ c_ on~  !9110~                                                                *0011       0.01t._  : - 14-  A.7_*0 .y     0 .1   _     .,   _
10*0100      (0.10*  ofck    sun)-*1.0  1W10*0          00
w_710  _190.10.1W01  0.0W50of _00     1_001  .0   1010) - 1011 o*0. _W 0.7_
101*0*  7001      -7;5 -a                                                                  14t   2looor   -    -W 1-p I  00104*  *1   I1    I0
F001..-        -  -  1Wo   0.0*0003011   -000VA-  11                               00  0.0           0.10.  l         w     07W013001
v       0       -   e- 1 W      10        01  .1-   Ih."
-1041 P31      C. 010100  --, .0.IO.117   07 1010.A  1W -                              0 ll     00010 1W- 1*0 -p      100    *. 1  .b01.a -1    0
1o o0_  101  00*0   -_ 3001 1*01               00I 0      * 1W0  U                         W*01 ol1. 1W _0.   001
?10 111 ._  l0   -.                     _0ly   -0   w _  17_.  *0 ___     b_?                               1.  -_       *f-R.6-
:O.   -   _.00    *? f_ O             _  _                                                                -     _ e     _   0._     *_1?.
- ?-?,_t~~~~~~~~~~~~~SScutv sta                                      _             __
* 1_sW   _  S o    -     W    1.7 _ _ _  _ .    0. -d0 0       -          _       0--L. oo.K.. nw 70            *   ___
00-11101W _ ?1 _W - _             ?      -   *     -                 _01    *-L _ _-10                   _                        -L&
`1Z.00       ft    0 -  10001- .  0-.C_13-                                   0       Il  b 1001  _00     sa1   r 04  - 71.5_X-; -
C.1O   .:     . *0          -       0_l0                      O00   *-0. po-lo01. -ti  _4111    -Ol M    04_
0_ .l- -01. -   O*.                                                              10_,_  .r P., - .           1     ,  _ .   _1. _ -0 - 0
= 0.4-90.1  101-  0_   0_         - - - cum    1.0.) 0                                                   _I-  .0..50 _               tO _
_ _I  _1 9O. to.r. _W lo:._w                       _  _                                       1 :. _ _ U
001,1 11W  lOll -  1W 0110.                                         01.-12 ooCIS        101-1 - - .0..  PW- 0.00   001*010
- 7 1 0                     _"01.  * -- o *               _ o. _ 0 0   .   * _  0S0 _                  -C o   _     -_D I_7l
900111 10. 1070. 1W 11101.70 l0  *1    1*01                                                                     W     10100..1.1
lb.oLbolo  11-ft 1Wo. FM__SC) - 1.0.1 - a0  wo*0W 10*    C.9 004 .04-                0-    W040    .0.40*   r0 .0    0o1  0
- 0l0*01     000 10-00__. 1000-70. 1W  _s-Ar _T.d                                            _
10.010110  001o  90.0    70-0                10      0o-000.0110001 sic.1.0) - 1111l-0W1 Z.3                                       1  *1W001 
1.0.100*0. 10s- 0_0 0e   -0s1. __  _                                                                                  r   1       _                F-.
-_ D_ b ft-              --W d__}  -  S-     C                                       c    t_           r,   D_ .
110 __01 10 10._ _. _:S1, - I:t t_W 01*0  _.1 __0   .-1-0.
991 1M40.1:                                                                  -._- . _  __            _                               _
Gs-   01  10""'0 *0...0           ~    - 02~ 0~    11   .0 01.1                       W.7Co0(o  0.    .11100-*00                            00
WP -  &"   00 _- 01,0. __                          _11   01                                       t_ 00.131I7- -0I 1100.
.t_LIS -_ : _   [_I-                      .&&ft:* ,    _X      _(1                               t I%C I.M    _.w  .~ c__   W_        l_Psv;_m  
_ S_s. _ U [[Z _ _. _ _ P i_ _e1. _ _ _z_ _X_, DX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r-.                 -                               S
_1.t_; 11.1. _10 11_        0      t     011  50.m11                        1Wlo *01... -3. .0.10   _1          0 _- 0111        _ 1000 _. .10.
-t_111  C0   bt-y 710.*             -     1W5  --; _90 .f tl1  X1W            _               _     1  .01.0  p0 _00   01 _1         0  t.11   O,
P_f _:.sE_ f - ;_, :_-m, _   t.                        _ t        s_~~~~~~~T-b-d_
1_I1.                                                                             lflo..o.0 101000 _0 10001_1 .W 10 t__i    0f  _50        1 01 .5P 0_  _  _
"M_                                -r- -        -L_t _r10-  _                                 V-                1-lsi ty  _.1  P         _ tW-u   -W
70011. 101W. 1_ _                      _.' r  1_ 0 )  _ _   0-    -* -1                       - _0 1          0  _  __*0 ~       0 .  _e* 
___: IO 0                                                                                  0 10.9 0_0._  01 P0- .  _1p-)  10 t _   * :._100. _
0101 __t_15        _ - _0.f O  _1            _ _0   .    _ 01.1* _0 wOL             .0.1.01t 0.010109000. 0.300;..1                 b              bb
1-   1-ft                        -0    a_                                                                       f 1. .    _   _   _  .b       t
..P T        _      I.21                            _b.                                      P-W  f_ _x L_ F_; 1112  MM  " son   _- -
-     -|_ 40_20 _   _ C      _         -t -.D   so: P- r_s_~M                                                               -
0 -10 *0 10070 1_7.0110  .                                                                           .-  -     010171 t1-             L - 0 -_  _.0l
C-&,.   a1. _f1                         ,1 -        , n_     01 P W    1' _.                f _1_t1  1  _     1.
:1 _F :r       _ ~                    _-    da-, __ _                                       '_   _'    '                     -_ _
SM_rD       t.1 _ .1     - _  _..  mt11or  1*07 0.100         0 (.-.1   -- -010 _.0                            *     _         V-.&. 1__ f-o .
1_          to G1 t_     .-. o         000I_ o       _ _o  1t -.L _00. 10             (I. 1- 0                                      L.
0.                                                       10101010~~~~~~~~~~~J*.-   "
_          -L         ---W             -L. ..P l   F   1_              __  _ _                              0       .,  *. 0.    3
ft.  - l_ d   .1"  I_.. 10-I.. AVI10D  W Low 0.3          10    0                                   . - 11.1 f 11... 10 *      __   11   _   _0
0117 1W_; *011  .001_05  *0101     10_              . 00t 00*0.01100 _.101.1 1.0.  log,00. 1*0. 1910tt_3 _ *_
_1W 1W  * 05171000 01191.11. _0 0l..5  _I00.0  r0101                               )     . 10..1 1.        1071W     00_0 10103. 00005
01XEt _00*1  10.01 351., . lol 1W 1*0 0100.                                         1W '0*1.1    10.         .00000*0  *01_ 30 1..0  3*  _tt.
1. 0..10 00_9 _10 0 0P--- ".0                         ,Lo  f f-1 _ l      I      I,    1  1_
5.0100  100> .11 o10*1 ..gI*04 _y I_0 90..4 _. 030w _                              1101 10_  _. _10  1000. 0   1W 1_01  301.0 1_,.0
90*  0,1.0 .100  01 w          0t.1 =e 00110 ...o   7*0 0_0 30. 1W 110 010 _1.0. t0 _ID N0 11' 1 _                                             *0
01l 101W  ..1. -t-  (          -L0*101W064 .0*.000 71101                            010.*00    0 It                                             ".11    -00
4101001 _1700001001  1W *_1  _1. _ _  *0 _1?; 1_00.01et_fE_  - r. Pt 10w _  10 7S_t _
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l r                                    _           'I- T.U"' _      tltr-_ _   _ ss, _bo              C P-
U.z rr _ _D_s___v*_.1.                    _                                        _ t_|_ 0 e     d110  _    0..1-1
_I 0.01  (0  _ r *0001  _10 oO..00  T_ 01l ibol5   _ 10*1W 10                       D_ l.o   _11  _. 0'0 1Ws 0     - *.*                         010
_ _  _, 20        ,_0  ,_          10 *     1   07  0 _      350 n70 v-                                   .        1 (M *0*0_0. *          0 '       o
1- _d. _l P101*0  971 11.    .; 1_000 _r_0. 9_  KI 3t3  A. -.                                 _        _. _    .   -                         S
a000.19 d.01017 101. _1                                                                                       PI_ 00" _                          L..1 _   r
0     .110;y 3  .0      IU  *-.. _                    sm0014 D& 3_._  :0- I10                                                 -*-I _.0        W 0
100. 1010 110 100. (10 130014 - Ol  0_01 .1 00*0  *00   -                          0010010003. 10000 tO  3010  _00 1W10 ) -. 000 1W700
_0 01 I_.01. (100. 01e0-   . 1W 1.0r -- _       pr. 1   110.0                     0. -  0_ S- .).
~~~~~~~~~1-._ -.t   rw %-e    _:                                         I-"_1. If         K _-Ww-   S             111f f
70        '.0           *0--  -1    *07000.0    -R.                        -S I13 _            1(V       1. (05 _*DO  _       .00 __W 010
*e"v- S. ,t- c. _ II .
1_--1tt._ _ -_1_  A F-__f-_-. _t~ C_ -p-_**-
_00,       a. _    0050 _1 *017 1.  _       10W   90_01010. . 01 _1 3*  _                               1
0710  01000  _- _..400. *0050 001_10 _o..*l1                1 *01                101*00 10001   10301 *011 *t00J1  *0*  _00 100*__.01
_.-                        b  .-b            S,_ _-0 - -        - Vat-                                   * _ _ d s. 4t"             -3-0
_00   s50 100.0001...     _ ._._ _.u  -             . .0. _- _S4_1__  _
itO   - 04010  00*01, 000*0031  01              0   *001  000000
070101   010o1011*00_301*.                                                     _1073_,*t   0



e1 - C s
Pag.aCi - 43.3  SIioi (mid 1911                                                                                                          I?
C  pr c.g. US 550    (81  ultr.)                                                                                                      P 
_c (millias
MtSmC e'a                                       UUL GROUTS  RATES   (23)
Pce                     A CtUAL                                        ET-        SoGJCIC7D
tM192        1975   1976   1977  t191    1979   1900i,l  19612   19683  1963184   1Sss  196iK   19- 687
m2IO0mL  &S
Cce D_tiC Pru__ct b/            29150          9.3   A33    tiEI    50        9.7      L        7.6      6.9       60       6.6       6.4       6.0
*ricaltmr          -         4787.0        6b_      1.6   -3.0    5.A    4.2       3_5      310        '.S      2_4       2.6      2.7       2_b
.tr  cl            _     7     29_0         0LT    5 _5 6.2   110          7J9     7.b       7.3   1    S       L4       7.F       7.7      7.5
PEcr_..                      3422_0        40-6   5J-7   5.5   22_0   10-3    13-9           6.3      6.0       6.3      6.0       a.0       6.5
Sic  di                     1072S-0         9.1   II_S    169    6t0    13.2    lO_2        9-9      b_l       69       7_2       6.6       64
ca.tiou                        2t33AL0        -0.3   11.5    5        64    9.3    10.7         7_6      5.5       6.0      4.2       6.0       5.5
Gross Zuesetmec                 7561.0        46.5  -11_7   25_5   10_S     10.       2.9     10.9      1.5       6.0      5.5       6.1      6.b
E98. of CM        5             796-.0        27.2   30.8    S-9    3_1    0.6        95       10._1     61        5_2      7.2        _0 
Yewar. of CW5                  ZL1W5O         171.   -5S3    2_.    6.3   15.3        9.4       9.0     -1_7       3.9      5_1      469       6.S
Cross NaciuMal So-iLo           4109.0       17b_0   50.1   59.1  23_        -3.4    -_4       06.1           -             -         -
PR;U
GPa D-faar                                    ._53   50.9   56.0   62Q2    76.1    91.5    IOD0        -
ffmchs       *.C.                              2.15   2_21   2.07   I-.s   1.43    E.35         1.23     -
She of Qw ec Nto    Prica. CZ)                       duirme Zncesr.     () me Cater Prim.
coc cm- c   ra te)                          t965 P-co  1975 Pe.    117
1960  1970  l975  1979  1900181  1911602   19617            1960-1970    1970-1975 1975-1979 P782-V38
Cros. 8ic  PrsctY
-Ar.lW.Tw                27.9  Z5.3  26.2  19.9    19.2        1A9       1A62           467          5.1       2.0        2.5
t-  irtt, & PAtole.. C/    3_7  :6-1  26.8  36.1    36.1       33.0      49.0           3.0         2.6       11.5       7.4
-Srica d/                429   40.8  42.7  41.2    40.3        42.4      42.3           6.3         64-       11.8        6.7
--tSm                      87.3  90.6  87_7 *5.8    89           843      31.2           6.4          8.0       7.7        6-4
Cco.. lnecatc              13_3  13.9  33.   32.8    29.5        29.9      30.5                       4 62       7.9        3-4
-EOrt of a1is              19.5  16.2  20.2  29.7    33.4        31.5      36.9           4.9         22_8      10L2       _.6
Lawort of CM               20.1   MS  41.3  48.3    48.3         46.1      *7.0           1_1        13_5        3.9       3.5
Ctrem Natioal Sa._.        12.9   7.7  13.2  21.8    19.2        36-2      19.9           7.2         17.2     2-0          -
As 1 of Ct-
1960   1970   1975   1979   198o/8   19 1gi2    196213
PUILrC FIFA_                                          _
Cmrrm.c mr..               1J5   21_3   29.2   29.0        42.6      40-2       39_1
Careot Tmpwmlit.r           21.5   22.0   40.5   35.3        "9.2     40.       40-4
Carroot SLD_Im  (.4 or
Deficit (-)               -3_0   -0.7  -11_3   -6.8         3-4      0.1       -1.3
Iw.t..ec Zgme.dicere        I1.8   1131    17.2   20.0    n27         22.5      20.0
Fo;ize rS mociog             -       -      5.9    5 9       5-4       '-9       6-4
1960-70  l970-75  1975-80 FT*3-5T38
07INDIOMIS
cCromt1  mac. (1Z              4.5      5.0    11S5      7.5
COP per caita  at
-_* (X)                      1.9      27      8_7      6.7
Iermw co..tNtion 
rat. (  Sl                           149    13.2       8.6
icit                           -       -        3.6     6.1
Ml.ti l Sa.u M at-                              0.46    0.19
imort Elacicitv                0.9      1.7     0.9     0.9
a/ Named a. world Seek Atil_ -emadologv (Ibr  year awe a.eabin  ract).
hi CUP for 1981/82 at correc price is "I"d St market prticee   Seccaral _bare. mod ratoo ofgruseh  nters CDP ac factor co_t.
cl w_fctcjrij   &ad Rsinag. Electricivt  ad Cectructiam.
*/ Diatribectijamoid srwic. s5rctrs.
./ Wsiabted waog. of *11 cerreot ecoc  item imtludii  trameacti.oa. wader t_. ft.s market rate.
71 Kl1ctricit, owly.
M1D
Sewprcmbr 1983
(420W)



-25-
h 1
Pfae 5 ad6S
=!- mWAEL lm^D
Poplastiae-  43.3 uill1   6(id 198I)
OP Der capitaz           1981U dollars)
An--t EIII NzOW)                 Arl Growth Rate LZ) at CGoustat 19S1182 Prices
us$ at curret
prices)                          ACTUAL                                  EST.       PROJECTED
1931182    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979   gol    81/82    8I2/i    83156   84(85   65186
UEaZRL TRADE
MNrchandie Exporte            5779       27J2     19U5     3.0      7.7      8.5      4..    12.1    -1.3       4.4      7_5       7_3
- Primrv b                     570      -15_4    -8.7    25_9   -29_9        5.1    -9.9      8.8    -3.3       7.4     4_8       3.6
Manufactures                540       24.6   -14.5   -Z7.4    18.2   -30.1   -10.6   -12.6    -82           4_9      6.4       6.9
- PecroIem Ef                 4669       72.1    63.Z    11.1    16.1    21.1         9.5    16_2    -0.1       4.0    8I1         7.8
Mnrcha ndise riports         10300       15.3    -5_0    -1.0       8.5    12.3    10_6        5.4    -2.4      4.1      6.4       5.1
- Food                        2680       27_3    17.0   -18.1    25.8    -1.2        19_6     8.1  -  0.7       2-4      7.6      3_7
-  Petroleum                   505      -34.2   -23.3   -53.3       3.0   -12.0    -0.2    68.3        6.4      6.1      6.5       5.6
- Macbinery and Equi nt    3175          62.4    24_8    21.3    -0.7    Z8.9    10.1   -11.6    -9.1           7.1      5.4       6.4
- Othbrs                      4020       20.1   -26.2    10.7       7.5    11.9       6.3    10.0      9.9      2.7      6.1       5-1
Pries
Ekport Price Indez                       56.1    54.3    57.0    57.7    6Z29   109.0   100.0    95.9   101.9   111.9    121.8
Import Price Index                      63.5    67.6    74.9    81.0    93.6   106.4   100.0    98.8   105I6    113.1    121.7
Term of Trade Index                      8.S3     80.3    76.1   n72    88.6   100.4   100.0    97.0    96.5    98.9    100.1
spoition of Mercbwdiae Trade (I)   Average Aemslu Icre.ae CZ)
(at corrsnt prices)          at cosatant 1961182 prices
1975    1979   80G81   81/82  85186       1975179  FT82IPT86
Exports                                                                         9_8       4.7
Primar /                      28.1    13.7       9.6    9.9   12.9         -4.1      3.0
Knmufactureskl                 46.7    15.4    10.5    9.3    9.8          -15.3       4.0
Petroleaae'                    25.2    70.9    79.9   80.8   77.2           26.8      4.9
Iportw                                                                          1.9      3.9
Food                           23.6    22.8    26       25.8   25.0          2.9       3.6
Petrolz*                        6.9      3.1      3.2    4.9    5.1       -24.5        7.2
Machiner                       23.7    37.4    36.6   30.6   30.6           17.2       2.7
Others                         45.8    36.7    34.1   38.7   39.3           -3.1       3.3
Sbhar of Trade with        Share of Trade with                 Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries CZ)   Developing Countries (Z)        Capital Surplus Oil Ezportes (1)
1965  1970  1975  1981   1965  1970  1975  1981              1965    1970    1975   1991
DIDECITOU OF TRAE
Export-                  27.0  17.0  14.0  52.0   18.0  22.0  10.0  36.0                1.0      1.0      4.0   3.0
Primery               29.0  19.0  18.0    -       17.0  22.0  11.0    -               -      1.0       3.0     -
Nnzfacture            19.0  12.0   3.0    -    23.0  23.C   9.0         -            4.0      3.0      5.0     -
Imports                  55.0  42.0  65.0  75.0   18.0  25.0  14.0  13.0                -        -        4.0   1.0
a) lald on World Bank Atlas metbodology (tbra* yar average exchange rate).
bi bot including oil and oil products.
c/I  Icluds oil compsuies ezports.
MaaDA (02363-RJvised)
9.29.83



- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Ps tut _
-341= Or "0         .        tL OCPI73L am  S
let Item MS DE 4car prices]
CT._                 PROJECTED
1974    1975    1976    1977    £973   1979   iS/tl  1961112   iTn3    1tO                    9W/ 19368  035166  219S7
urnAM  or ainw
Exec of cods an  Moo-Faccor
Seriran                                 2251    2503    3319    3SOS    4099   5601    7803         7962        *070        a0        1l0Oo       11650       13360
- of aicb svcbaiae 3.0_.6                 Isis    1375    2169    2346    2553   1967    5617         5779        5605       6000        7090         20         9600
I_et  of  OOSadMmVcto rO
Services                               -3959   -5161   -5132   -5S79    6612  -37m1  -114    -114 5            11.300   -12510       -14240      -16090     -I70
- of d4th  weIoS       , c.i.f    _      -3613   440       4639   -5110    599J  -7317  -10334  -10330           -gm0      -110         1230  -I1490          -i50
ec racr Lac_e                               70     122     aI3      472    1096   1376    1190        151         90         710         630         610         430
not PrinCe Tranfers                         42       go      67       63       54     S9      63        51          30         40          50          50          60
Convent Aco    Blae                      -1596   -2426   -1383   -1456   -1341  -191S   -2343    -3501          -2240       -3010       -3660       -3780      -4140
Pritce Diret iawesme               *          7     225     44   _ 77        387   1516  10 36        1325        1400       1650        100         1960       2130
PITzas. aed Gr_ans (Fec)                    69      269     647      730    1141   loll    12_4        9S5        9g0        1470        1310        2100        1395
- official l1as  and  rc-es                -21      210     490      303    1023    749    1020        965        840         990        1150          00       1475
- private                                   90       59     157      -nl     113      62     224        45         140        40          460         600        420
Obewr 1L ripoceiva±'                       387      609    -*04    1164       305   -305     -32       576         724       -            -            20         315
orall MoaI- 2/                            1053    1123      676    -915      4n2   -307      150       615        46           110       -150        -20        -200
trenrnatinsl Rweeeas                       516      616     6412    380    150    1090    1697        2313       2381        -           -                 -     -
- of aich gold0 W2                                  102     102      10     104    104      103       775         54S       -           -                       -
R_en_  -s nons   vorts "                   1.7      1LB      1.7     2_1      3.0   1L7      2_0       2_7         2.9       -           -           -            -
EfUNiAL CAPrL1 SD D0
Groaa D      iisbarnruts                  215    3S22    2213    3236    2758   2291    2562          3032        31,02       3;70       3855        4282       4960
Officia  CGrant  _'                    1261      936     705      382     291      72     27-       395        400         482         554         S97        662
Coacesaiosol Loans                      120    144       66      1855    1600    996    L276       1034        961         904         VA          no         949
- DaC                                    55      399     421      591     799    333    1103        900         796        727         696         758        350
- OPC                                     3    1162      in       137      93     43        f9       23          16          S           I           0          0
- IDA                                    12      -9       -2       -2      45      55      48        6         136         144         107          62          32
- Otbr.                                  50      54       34    1085      663      65      56        la         21          27          4           60         67
Nos-Coseceial  a                         I04    1092     o S    1049      867   1223    1007       1653        1491       2084        2453        2784       3034
- Otficil -I port credits              379     639      214       24      4        0      33       16S        292         339         342        406         434
- low                                    -        16      36       37      57    1la      1_6       111         120        253         330         387        429
- other elctilaternl                     -         6      -       256      IS       5       4        to         27          24          31          36         50
- privcae                               425     433      59S      732     743   1050      774      1339       1052        1448        1750        1955       Z223
cap Fineci.s                                                                                                       250           0          0          20         315
Eartral DfC
Debt otese-ods an  dabu.sed               2330    13828    5770    3092    9920   11411   13353    14956         IS19       17312       36677       20064      21540
- official                             1990    3910    4720    6814    8507   9554   10928    11932          12223       13054       13764      14522       15352
- privae                                840     9168   100S    I.27      1413   1S37    27z5       3024       3586        4069        4724       5331        5750
- a   fiscinn                                                                                                  189         139         139         210        438
Undiahered Debt                           1602    2426    3014    4515    4390   4629    5951         5013        6599       7979        726         6541       5724
Debc Senice
totaI S5ev.e *ayent                        542     64       795    1040    1190   1246    2081        Z371       Z540        232          239        3601       4230
- ine    t                              156      190     274      361     415    423      759       912       1100        1226        1320        1319       149
-psen as-   e.ort ±/                 22_0    232    20_1    22.6    21.5   17-3    23-3          26.3       Z5_1        27_1        27.0        26_6       27.3
4era*e Ioterest Rate ae New Leas.          6.3      4.7    5_       5.1     4.6    6.4      6.5       7.3        10.0        10.0       10.1        10_2       10_1
- official
-priest
Average Maturity of Ne, Loase (rears)    37.2    18.5    23_3    13.7    27.9  2'.5    19.5            16.9        14.4        14.7       14.3       14.2        14.2
- official
_ rimm
I/  lcludtina  eecial balane of unmet.s toianiag sod  llocated item.
V1 Rime C-) indicates acc_lation of foeign nesca.
3/  oereig. aneata of C&etral See.
;1 werhdie only.
S/  ineltiue special balne- of Psinas grants.
l Exports of goads _nd serwice. nat inlmsiin fsreign oitl cespni-e exports.
IIDA (0234.)
9.29.83



- 27 -
I1<£
An IcE
. Swr tD m  ams yi
cmo mc 34 B
AIN  awvouw  PagPo                                i uilw  13~U
2 la smd Cadits sUV di-a    2                                            L5.0   257.8
[C 136          75          SOL        SI   9A   hiXisin                 50.0      -        5.3
nUN239           76         ANL        Aexia Frec                        45.0      -        13.5
to 16-T 31      76         AMgit a  Vpb                    ,            50.0 _.12.8
or 637           76         Ale         mEipC   zu_    i.                                   2.1
ian  8           76         AX                    Dmr h  l jpc    D      10.       -         9.3
13 1369          77         AL         £Aeoi  1Wt  S9ppl                 53.2      -        13.6
Cr719            77     n              Mae Da" _ionv,                      -     z7.0        LO
3 1439           77         AE         mile D1It Dm       rL             27.0      -        14.2
In 16T 31        77         AF         le 1ta   i    1                  1O        -         6.3
Cr 77.           75         AE                  -       I                  -     53.0       12.6
Cr 830           78         AKE        Avicazltal 1he1wz:                  -     32.0        9.1
Cr a1            78         AE          0   Dselc                          -     14.0        7.6
cr   0           79        /a           JTago n.fl                         -     25.0       M0s
C 865            79         AUE        8fwatiiaf                           -     40.0       12.4
1a S-14          79         AE         Nbv 1Ia  Ruua F,mriie
an Tdical Asiubue              LO      -         3.2
or 909           79         AE         _m                        -         -     32.5       22L6
n3173            79         AI         GalEf  at solG                    75.0      -         0.1
cc 935           79         ANE        90*=   l  *DAM  T Il  b             -     37.0        5.5
to 1733          79           E                El Neiigi;m     Fau  102.0         -        86.9
Cr         8      0         AM    E Aizstries                              -     45.0    *     O8
Ta I8O           80         DM         D       emw1  Inausrial ll  IV    5LO      -         2.7
132            so          AR         I                                 3.0_   -           22.
Cr 1O2rb         80         AIM        CAita GM DigtrihUiiM                -     50.         -
In 19           sO          ARE         i  add YSu                       50.0               26.6
1to886           80         EA         IR I                               7.0      -         7.0
CrJ052          JO          EA         fIt  m                              -     2D.0     3N65
Cr 1069          a1         AK         S ion 1a                           -     40.1       22.2
In 1928          SI         E=           It mm D    3Cr t                25.0      -         0.2
Cr               81 A3 SI   AIE        NM    D                             -     80.0      47.4
cc1111 iea                  Al                                                   1 -  1.0    9.9
IA 2002          81          jqSW    lblb           i1                   660       -        60.1
Or 1156          S1         AIE    1 1ir    §t 91va51                      -     56.6       45.0
cr 1162          81         AL         Iduzicnl Aauist Eew                 -      6.9        5.9
La 20C1          82         ARE        1;e1       __ictim  m             660       -        6.;0
In 2D74         12          DM         11_t  dtri1 EW* V                 20.0      -        66.1
13 2103          82         ;EC        Abu Qir Gas Deu                    0.0      -        562
1A 2176          82         AUE    G      cer Caiz  (b 1k_1w tt          5SQ0      -        57.7
La 2183          83         AF         El Dikils  bet                   13M.0      -       130.0
La Z243          83         AM         APiatriE rl                       81.2      -        79.9
La 226A          83         AU    J       im.1 mminigt                   3O       -        37.7
In 2W            83         AZ         LrMigatia  1mwiz  sAEi   _        41.LS    -       4t.4
13 221D          83         AI C         DEml u hli0(acirg li          .165.3      -       164.1
a Z330          83         AKE        -- lbiz:                          26.0      -       24.0
132352           84         AU         Ibte  sppl ad -severawo.           4.0      -        4.0
Ttals                                                                 1.525.2   909    LX267.3
Of wich has bn _   id                                                   135.4    2.7
A      gold                                  7.5
Of andx bae rpd                              7.5
T1al ambld by 11ok ail                                                1.M98 7L  9.2
Y  s   t     of dw Vwjm=U t;id in IP= A is deribed ins s t  rat an tl S12             fiarmid pmjeits
LO' `100P 1i  is tP        tWi  Iwly md cutulaid to th  _arti  Dincin an 4r3d1 3d *   b  30
2/ P_d_s 3   "I't fE sminmuea mbich wer &*mmqsmrly tvajved. ol £   1 -tillim PMW aI
fm  - the      Caita CD      s      llpa    jact.
7 zt iClahd is V  Spociul Aetm  *.dit 20 ef 3 o35.0 whi , .i        t.
s1  cdi .h       Is in   .       e      t is at aqmdeul &t tim_ of aia     w atl r tD  _  t   *       IMs
.s*alem at ezb 31. 19i  for dw  idwu
Anil 26, 195
(1U31J II2. pi1Sa is)



- 28 -
AMEX 11
Pae 2 of 2
B. SDThMT OF IFC IYWE1 15-
(As of ch 31, L184)
Fisal
Year   Cblian                 Type of Business             low    Ey          ota
-  -                                                     MlS  illion)--
76, 82 Arab CerazIe Qmc a     Ceramic Fzidustrv             6.63    1_11      7.74
78   Nile Clothizg Coq,w    Readya GaxtIndustry           0.43    0.16      0.59
78   Delta RAW Caw          Agriculturl Prodwcioa,       20.00    3.51    23.51
uaxily sugar
79, 83 I-ilia NLisr Pzltw    Food and Food Pincessirs      12.07    2.35    14.42
80, 81 Ismailia Fish          Food ani Food Processirg      3.74    1.05     4.79
Faxiumir COMz&W
80   iez GCem   Cmrw'    Buildixg Materials              30.00      -      30.00
84   El-Dikheila            Irn and Steel                95.20    7.20   102.40
81  Iluxor Hbtel            Crocodile Tourist Project     4.41    0.72      5.13
Total gross CawituenCS                                     172.48   16.10   188.58
Iess: Cairellaticas, terminations, repavmexts
and sales                                       84.34      -      84.34
Total coamiCints rnowheld br IRC                           88.14   16.10   104.24
Total UIdisbumed                                           100.42   10.02   110.44
(023LT-2)



- 29 -
ANNEX III
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)    Time taken to prepare the project:                 Six months
(May-November 1983)
(b)    Agency which prepared the project:                 Bank
(c)    Project first identified:                          May 1983
Cd)    Date of Bank appraisal mission:                    November 1983
(e)    Date of completion of negotiations:                June 1984
Cf)    Planned date of effectiveness:                     November 1984
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(i)    DIB would establish and staff a supervision system acceptable to the
Bank by December 31, 1984 (para. 43);
(ii)   DIB would strengthen its internal audit and project appraisal by
December 31, 1984 (para. 43);
(iii)  DIB would mobilize funds fros several sources to finance its
projected foreign exchange resource needs (para. 44);
(iv)   DIB would maintain its debt/equity ratio at or below 9:1 (para. 45);
(v)    DIB's term loan approvals for very small SSI would be at least 202
of the total (para. 47);
(vi)   The interest rate structure would be reviewed on an annual basis
(para. 53).






