Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
LA)J.2-LI59- &6j-4r
Report No. 5030-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT -
May 29, 1984
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This doaunet bas a restrcted distridbti  and my be used by recipiets only in the perfonnmc of
their official dute  Its contets may nt otherwise be dislosed witout Wold Dak authouiztiom.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Egyptian Pound (LE)
US$1.19       = LE 1.00
US$1.00       = LE 0.70 (Central Bank Operations)
USt1.00       = LE 0.84 (Authorized Bank Pbol)
(In this report $ refers to US$)
GROSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB       African Development Bank
CBE        Central Bank of Egypt
CMA        Capital Market Authority
DIB        Development Industrial Bank
EEC        European Economic Commission
EIB        European Investment Bank
EIDDC      Engineering and Industrial Design and Development
Center
GOFI       General Organization for Industrialization
FC         Foreign Currency
IDB        Islamic Development Bank
ILO        International Labor Organization
KfW        Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LC         Local Currency
LIBOR      London Inter-Bank Offering Rate
MIDB       Misr Iran Development Bank
NBE        National Bank of Egypt
SIDD       Small industry Development Department (of EIDDC)
SmI        Small and Medium Scale Industry
SOE        Statement of Expenditure
SSI        Small Scale Industry
SSITD      Small Scale Industries and Training Department
SSPIS      Special Services to Private Industrial Sector
(Department within BOA)
USAID      U.S. Agency for international Development
FISCAL YEAR
Until December 31, 1979 DIB's fiscal year used to coincide with the
calendar year. Thereafter a six-month accounting period was observed
from January 1, 1980 to June 30, 1980, and DIB's fiscal year now begins
on July 1 and ends on June 30, thus coinciding with the Government's
fiscal year.



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
EGYPT
STAFF APPRAISAL REIDRT
SMALL AND MEDIUM 9CALE INDUSTRY (SMI) PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.      INIRODUCTION .......... ..  ............................  ......    1
II.      THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ..................................          2
A.   Structure and Performance ............ .................    2
B.   Small and Medium Scale Industry ........................    3
C.   Bank Assistance to the Industrial Sector ...............    6
III.    THE BANKING SECTOR    ....................:    7
A.  Structure ..........................................    7
B.  Financial Resources and Application ....... .............    8
C.   Financing of Industrial Sector .................*...*.....    8
D.   Cost of Capital * * ...........................* ..........  10
IV.      DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK (DIB) ...........................  11
A.   Institutional Aspects .      ...............................  11
B.   Operations and Financial Aspects .......................  15
V.       TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR SMI .      ...............................  19
A.   Background .............................. ....   19
B.   Evaluation of Phase II Program .........................   20
C.   The Proposed Program (Phase III) .......................  21
Program Components .......... . ............. . ........  21
Costs and Financing ................ ..... .6-0..  23
Organization, Management and Staffing ............- 24
This report is based on the findings of (i) a preparation mission
composed of Messrs. Zafar Shah Khan (mission leader), Robert hant, Abhay
Deshpande, Des Fitzpatric (consultant), and Richard Ryan (consultant) which
visited Egypt in November 1983 and (ii) a mission composed of Messrs. Zafar
Shah Khan, Robert Hunt and Abhay Deshpande which visited Egypt in January 1984
to complete the appraisal.
This dowment has a restrwted distnbution and rmy be used by rcpents only in the perfornc of
their of ria duties Its contents may not otherwse be discosed witbout World lank authorizaon.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
VI.        THE PROJECT .......................                           .... 25
A.   Objectives    ....     .      ...........................  25
B. Financial Assistance.                   . . .... 26
C.   Technical Assistance for SMI through EIDDC ............. 26
D.   Use of Loan Proceeds         ................................... 26
E.   Main Features of the Loan ................... ........... .. 27
F.   Project Benefits and Risks ............................ 29
VII.       AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............................. 30
Annexes:   1-a  Measures of Protection and Comparative Advantage ....... 33
1-b  Public and Private Sector Industry - Performance Ratio . 34
2.   DIB:  Summary of Operations ............................ 35
3.   DIB:  Analysis of Term Loan Approvals        ..     ........ 36
4.   DIB:  Condensed Income Statements, 1980-1983 ..... . ..... 37
5.   DIB:  Condensed Balance Sheets, 1980-1983 .........38
6.   DIB:  Portfolio and Arrears of Principal ............... 39
7.   DIB:  Projected Operations, 1983/84-1986/87 ............ 40
8.   DIB:  Long-Term Resource Position as of June 30, 1983... 41
9.   DIB:  Projected Income Statements, 1984-1987 ........... 42
10.  DIB:  Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1983/84-1986/87... 43
11.  DIB:  Projected Balance Sheets, 1984-1987 .............. 44
12.  Technical Assistance Program for SNI
- Detailed Cost Estimates ........................ 45
13.  Technical Assistance Program for SMI
- Staffing Plan for SSITD ........................ 47
14.  Projected Disbursements Schedule           ....     ... .. 48
15.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project
File  ..............o.........       ..49



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY (SMI) PROJECT
Loan and Project 3ummarv
Borrower:                Arab Republic of Egypt
Amount:                  US$170.0 million equivalent, including capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:                   20 vears, incluiding 5 vears of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:         The Government would onlend US$168.1 million out of
the proceeds of the loan to the Development Industrial
Bank (DIB) at an interest rate equivalent to the Bank
rate at the time of Board approval plus 1 percentage
point for carrving the interest rate and foreign
exchange risks. DIB would onlend these funds to
subborrowers for terms not exceeding 15 years,
including three years' grace, at an interest rate of
not less than 14% per annum. DIB would repay the loan
to the Government substantially in accordance with the
amortization schedules of the individual subloans.
The Government would transfer US$1.5 million to the
Engineering and Industrial Design Development Center
CEIDDC) as a grant to cover the foreign exchange cost
of the technical assistance program to SMI. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk
between the US dollar and the currencies of
disbursement; subborrowers would bear the exchange
risk between the US dollar and the Egvptian pound and
would repay their subloans at the highest exchange
rate between the Egvptian pound and the US dollar
declared by the Central Bank of Egypt at the time of
repayment.
Project
Description:            The project is designed to support the program for the
development of SMI through a line of credit to DIB and
technical assistance to individual enterprises. It
would (i) provide a part of DIB's foreign exchange
requirements over 1985-87 for onlending to SMI, with
special emphasis on small scale industries (SSI); and
(ii) finance the foreign exchange cost of continuing
the program of technical assistance to SMI begun under
previouis loans (1533-EGT and 2074-EGT).
Benefits and Risks:      The project would provide further support for the
Government's "open-door" policy. By providing
financial assistance to SMI, it would contribute to



the development of this important part of the private
sector, while the technical assistance component would
increase the productivity and efficiency of SKI. The
project is expected to create about 71,000 new jobs.
There are risks associated with DIB meeting its
lending targets for SSI and delays in carrying out the
technical assistance program; the experienice gained
under previous loans and careful supervision of
progress should minimize these risks.
Individual Subloan
and Free Limits:        Maximum subloan of US$5.0 million; free limit for
individual subloans of US$1.25 million.
Final Date for
Project Submissions:    June 30, 1987
Procurement:            Througb international shopping procedures which
require comparison of offers from at at least three
suppliers.
Estimated Bank
Loan Disbursements:                                USS Million
FY85  FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91
Annual     0.4  20.4   44.2   47.6   32.1   17.4    7.9
Cumulative 0.4  20.8   65.0  112.6  144.7  162.1  170.0



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Bank has so far provided five industrial credits totalling $250
million in Egypt to a special unit of the Bank of Alexandria (first and second
credits) and later to its successor, i.e. the Development Industrial Bank
(DIB) which was established in 1975. These industrial credits were designed
to develop the institutional capability of DIB to promote primarily medium and
long-term financing to the private industrial sector. The last of these
credits made in December 1981 was designed more specifically to assist mainly
small and medium scale industries (SMIs). A sixth industrial credit of $30
million was made by the Bank in May 1980 to Misr Iran Development Bank (MIDB),
which is mainly assisting larger projects. The Bank has also provided direct
loans totalling $528.3 million for industrial public sector and mixed
enterprise projects to improve capacity utilization and to increase production
capacity and supply of essential commodities in resource based industries
(cotton ginning, textiles, cement, steel, and fertilizer projects). IFC's
equity participations and lending commitments for projects in the industrial
sector (including agro-industries) in Egypt totalled about $189 million as of
December 31, 1983.
1.02     In addition to financial assistance for the industrial sector, the
Esnk's efforts have been also directed at introducing policy and structural
improvements. Towards this end, the Bank has financed six sub-sector studies
in textiles, building materials, pulp and paper, food processing, metals, and
engineering industries, in order to assist the Government in formulating a
package of poiicy and investment proposals. The Bank has also assisted the
Government in a comprehensive study of the construction/contracting industry,
an important industry faced with major problems. In addition, the Bank has
prepared in 1982 a study of Trade Strategy and Investment Planning which
focused on the sectoral allocation and timing of Egypt's investment program in
the context of a viable foreign trade strategy. Finally, the Bank has
recently completed a study on the development of manufactured exports. The
findings and recommendations of the above three studies have been discussed
with the Government and two projects have been developed to support
institutional and policy reforms and financing of subprojects in
construction/contracting and manufactured exports industries.
1.03     The last industrial credit to DIB (DIB V) of $120 million became
effective on June 14, 1982 and its utilization is ahead of schedule. As of
December 31, 1983, total commitments and disbursements of the loan amount were
82% and 24Z, respectively, compared to 671 and 21% forcecast at appraisal.
The loan amount will be fully committed by mid-1984. The proposed project is
therefore timely in providing continuity to the Bank's support of SMI in the
private sector with greater emphasis on the SSI/artisan sector. It will
finance the foreign currency cost of imported machinery and equipment of
eligible enterprises. It will also support a technical assistance program for
SMI, including extension services for improvements in productivity and
efficiency. The design of the project takes into account the conclusions
reached in the Project Performance Audit Report of June 1983 in regard to the
Bank's first two industrial credits in Egypt (para 4.19).



- 2 -
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. Structure and Performance
2.01     The industrial sector (excluding petroleum) in Egypt is a large and
fast-growing sector, but its share of GDP declined from 17% in 1975 to 14% in
1981/82 because of the extremely rapid growth of the petroleum and service
sectors. In 1981/82, industry employed 1.38 million persons or about 12% of
total employment, and generated 9% of total commodity exports.
2.02     As a consequence of the nationalizations of the early 1960s, the
sector is dominated by about 250 mostly large public companies which account
for about 80% of investment, 58% of employment and 66% of value added in
industry. Egypt's basic industries (iron and steel, aluminum, fertilizer,
cotton yarn, heavy engineering, cement) are mostly in the public sector.
Activities that can be carried out by small-scale firms - garments, food
products, leather products, cosmetics, wooden furniture, and fabricated metal
products - are the important areas of private activity.
2.03     The shares of consumer goods, intermediate goods and engineering
(capital) goods in manufacturing value added are 51%, 36% and 13%
respectively. During the decade 1969-79, the share of the engineering
industries increased from 11% to 13%, reflecting the rapid growth of
engineering goods production during this period.
2.04     Between 1975-81/82 industrial output grew at an annual average rate
of 8.4%, somewhat less than the average GDP growth rate (about 10%). The
greater availability of foreign exchange and relaxation of bureaucratic
controls that followed the adoption of the Open Door Policy undoubtedly
contributed to revitalizing the private sector, which achieved an annual
average growth rate of 12% during this period. As a result, the private
sector increased its share of total manufacturing output from 25% in 1974 to
34% in 1981/82. Although not as striking as that of the private sector, the
performance of public industry during this period has also been favorable,
with an annual average growth rate of output of nearly 7% accompanied by
improved capacity utilization and labor productivity. Despite the high growth
rate of physical output, however, the financial performance of public
companies has been poor. This is essentially the result of insufficient
control over prices, wages and employment decisions at the enterprise level,
as these rest mostly with the government, although there are also serious
inefficiencies and management problems.
2.05     Especially since nationalization, Egypt has pursued an
inward-oriented industrial strategy and new investments have tended to augment
the capital- and energy-intensiveness of industrial production. The
industrial pricing regime (direct price controls, subsidies, tariffs and
exchange rates) is the principal source of divergence between domestic and
world prices and thus contributes to both operating ine.ficiency and
investment misallocation. The anti-export bias is reflected in the declining
share of manufactured exports in total manufacturing production. The decline
in exports has been larger in the private than the public sector mainly



because of the loss of Eastern European markets and the shift of the private
sector to the heavily protected and more profitable domestic market. A
parallel Bank assisted project will address the problem of increasing
manufacturing exports from both the public and private sectors.
2.06     Between 1977-1981/82, industrial investment (manufacturing and
mining) increased from LE 561 million to LE 1,483 million comprising about
26.5Z of total investment during the period. Private sector investment in
industry, which was at negligible levels in 1974, substantially increased in
this period and by 1981/82 constituted almost 20% of total industrial
investment. Much of the new industrial investment by the private sector has
occurred under the auspices of Law 43. Textiles, food, chemicals, metals and
engineering industries represent the main areas of law 43 investment.
2.07     With the slowdown in the growth of foreign exchange earnings from
petroleum exports and remittances, the Government has been looking to the
industrial sector to generate new foreign exchange earnings. Also, industry
is expected to become an important means for absorbing future increases in the
labor force because of the saturated employment situation in agriculture and
the service/distribution sectors and the levelling off of Egyptian
emigration. The industrial sector in the new Five Year Development Plan
(1982/83-1986/87) is projected to grow by 9.5% per annum. The Plan allocates
a large share of total investment to the industrial sector. Industrial
investment is estimated at LE 8.6 billion or nearly 25% of total investment, a
slight reduction from its share in the previous Plan. The private sector's
share of total industrial investment during the Plan period is estimated at LE
1.8 billion or 21X.
B. Small and Medium Scale Industry _/
2.08     Structure and Performance:  Nationalization of industry in the early
1960s concentrated on large and, to a lesser extent, on medium scale
industrial enterprises, leaving small and some medium scale industry (SMI),
including artisan and handicraft production, in private hands. Thus SMI and
the private sector are almost synonymous. The private sector consists of
about 250,000 artisanal establishments employing less than 10 workers and some
7,500 establishments employing 10 or more workers 2/. This group employed
about 624,000 workers in 1981/82 equivalent to over 40% of total industrial
employment, with 901 of the establishments employing less than 50 workers.
Private sector industry generated almost 51 of Egypt's total GDP and received
5.3Z of total investment in 1981/82. SMI industrial activity is concentrated
in building materials (25Z), engineering products (241), and textiles (21X);
other significant areas of activity are leather products, food processing, and
1/ There is no strict definition of SSI or SMI in Egypt. For the purpose of
technical and financial assistance under the proposed project, definitions
have been agreed with Egyptian authorities and are given in para 6.03.
2/  These numbers are based on an internal survey in Egypt which classified
all private sector enterprises with more than 10 workers as SMI
enterprises.



- 4 -
chemicals. Artisans are engaged mainly in woodworking (34X), leather products
(161) textiles (141) and metalurgy and engineering (101). About 751 of all
SKI and artisan enterprises are located in Cairo and Alexandria.
2.09     Private sector industry has shown a much better performance than the
public sector in the important areas of capital and labor productivity; and
investment, output, labor costs and industrial imports per person employed.
(Details in Annex 1-b). Private industry output per LE 1.0 of investment was
1.8 times that of public industry in 1981/82. In the same year, the average
private sector wage was only 501 of that in the public sector, while output
per unit of labor averaged 751 of that in the public sector during the
1976-1981/82 period. Based on industrial investment, the capital stock per
unit of labor in the private sector appears to be about one third of that in
the public sector. This suggests that the productivity of labor in the
private sector is far greater than in the public sector, despite the 50% wage
differential. It also indicates that the cost per job created is
substantially lower in the private sector, particularly when public sector
over-employment is borne in mind. Imports per LE 1.0 of GDP in the private
sector are half of those in the public sector, while imports per unit of
employment are about one third. The foreign exchange costs per LE 1.0 of GDP
produced, and the average foreign exchange cost of creating and maintaining
employment, thus appear substantially lower in the private sector. The more
economically rational managerial approach and a competitive outlook of the
private sector are the likely reasons for the above differences.
2.10     Government Policy and Strategy for Development of SKI.  The economic
policies followed by the Government since 1973, aim at reinstating the private
sector in all areas of activity including industrial production, distribution,
finance and foreign trade. The liberalization measures introduced so far
include new investment laws and changes in trade and exchange control
regulations, but the transition from a largely centrally-planned system to a
mixed market economy has proved difficult and is still underway a decade
later. Issues related to the private sector include the need for (i) clear
guidelines regarding the role of the private sector, (ii) reform of tariff
structure, (iii) upgrading the infrastructure support to industry,
particularly the construction/contracting industry, which is a major
bottleneck for implementation of projects, and (iv) minimization of
bureaucratic controls.
2.11     In addition to the above more general issues, there are specific
constraints faced by the SSI sector in particular. One of the most
significant constraints is the limited access to institutional sources of
financing for fixed investment and working capital (para 3.07). Many ssr
enterprises perform poorly due to lack of raw materials in adequate quantity
and quality, shortages of spare parts, obsolete equipment for which parts
cannot be acquired, and aging equipment requiring continuous repairs. A
number of the above problems arise from the difficulty many SSI enterprises
have in obtaining foreign exchange, the lack of adequate information on
supplies and the inadequate working capital financing.  Another constraint i6
the location of most of the SSI enterprises in the heavily congested urban
centres where production space is usually cramped, unsafe and poorly laid



out. This has an adverse effect on productivity and limits expansion
possibilities. SSI enterprises are also faced with shortages of skilled labor
due to emigration, though this problem is less severe with very small
SSI/artisan enterprises because they mainly utilize family labor. The lack of
assistance in project formulation is an important constraint related to the
problems associated with financial intermediation. Many entrepreneurs,
particularly those with newer and smaller firms, have difficulties in
collecting relevant information and properly formulating projects. Technical
assistance in the form of extension programs is still very limited. Small
establishments need extension type assistance to improve the layout of their
production line, evaluate and select appropriate technology, and improve the
quality of their products in order to increase their capacity utilization,
productivity and quality standards. Also, SSI enterprises need up-to-date and
complete technical information, particularly on new technology and processes.
Another problem faced by many SSI enterprises is the management constraint.
Many of the owners/managers lack the skills for maintaining financial records,
planning and budgeting, marketing, and dealing with outside institutions. An
improvement in management skills is essential to improve productivity and
efficiency. Another problem is the lack of institutionalized arrangements, to
promote subcontracting relationship between larger and smaller enterprises.
2.12     An effective development strategy for SMI must take into account the
above issues together with the more general policy constraints. The
Government is aware of these problems and is taking steps to address some of
these issues. In the macro policy area, the Government plans to study the
tariff regime with a view to reducing protection rates and their harmonization
between the public and private sectors. Recently, the Government has also
taken steps to provide to domestic private joint stock companies (under Law
159) access to the same investment incentives as those available to Law 43
companies. In addition, new support institutions are planned to be
established and credit facilities and incentives are to be provided in the
context of the Bank's two proposed projects for the promotion of manufactured
goods exports and the construction industry (para 2.15). This should also
assist the SMI sector. The Government is also addressing a number of SSI
specific problems through financial and technical assistance programs
supported by previous Bank industrial credits (para 5.01) and the proposed SMI
project. A long-term policy for the development of SSI has, however, yet to
emerge. The policy needs to cover, among others, the following major
aspects: (i) It should provide for the integration of SSI investment in
overall plans for industrial investment. (ii) It should promote the
establishment of close linkages between larger firms, particularly those in
the public sector, and small enterprises through sub-contracting
relationships. (iii) It should help to facilitate and expand institutional
financing (particularly from commercial banks) for fixed investment and
working capital in foreign and local currencies. (iv) It should provide for a
program to develop industrial estates or other related infrastructure to shift
location of SSI enterprises away from the presently congested urban centres.
In addition to the abo-re, the SSI division within the General Organization for
Industrialization (GOFI) should be strengthened with adequate staff and
resources to prepare overall plans and policies for the development of SSI and



- 6 -
to monitor its performance. It should be the focal point for all SSI related
activity in the country.
2.13     Although the above actions are important to promote SSI development,
they are not critical to the successful implementation of the proposed SMI
project. Nevertheless, in view of the growing importance of the potential
role of the SSI sector, it is necessary that the Government should initiate
measures to introduce a long-term policy and administrative framework which is
conducive to efficient and speedy development of SSI and addresses, inter
alia, issues mentioned in para 2.12. This matter was discussed with the
Government during negotiations, and assurances were received on the
preparation and introduction of such a policy and administrative framework for
SSI within the implementation period of the proposed project. The Bank would
review the above framework during the preparatory work for its next SMI sector
operations in Egypt.
2.14     Future Prospects:  The Government's Open Door Policy adopted in 1974
has helped to revitalize the private sector. The current Five-Year Plan has
allocated 21% of total industrial investment to the private sector emphasizing
its significantly expanded role. The private industrial sector in Egypt has
the advantages of relatively higher capital and labor productivity, and lower
imported inputs. It also enjoys overall country advantages including a
plentiful supply of low cost labor and domestic sources of energy, an already
well developed industrial structure and tradition, a strategic location and
definite comparative advantage in a number of products. The recognition of
these advantages by the private sector is reflected in data on approvals of
private sector industrial investments by GOFI, which shows an increase from a
total of 693 in number and LE 95 million in amount in 1976 to 949 and LE 1.1
billion respectively by 1982/83. The applications are concentrated in food,
textiles, chemicals and tanning and leather products (75Z by number and 66Z by
volume in 1983) showing recognition of Egypt's areas of comparative advantage
by investors. The prospects of the private SMI sector are, therefore, highly
positive and the on-going and anticipated institutional and policy reforms by
the Government will provide further stimulus to the sector.
C. Bank Assistance to the Industrial Sector
2.15     Bank assistance to Egypt has focussed heavily on the industrial
sector averaging 302-35% of the lending program. In the context of its
overall operations in Egypt, the Bank contributes to policy formation through
macroeconomic and indepth sectoral analysis and discussion at various levels
of government. Within industry, the Bank has had a number of subsector
studies, to develop a basis for policy discussion and the design of a lending
program. As mentioned in para 1.02, the Bank-supported three recent studies
1/, and the two resulting projects for the construction and export-oriented
1/ The studies are: (i) Arab Republic of Egypt - Construction/Contracting
Industry Study, Final Report, July 1981, (ii) Arab Republic of Egypt -
Issues of Trade Strategy and Investment Planning. Report No. 4136-EGT,
January 1983, and (iii) Arab Republic of Egypt - A Program for the
Development of Manufactured Exports, Report No. 4580-EGT, December 1983.



-7 -
industries would lead to institutional and policy reforms which would also
benefit the private sector in general. The construction industry project
would support the expansion of Egypt's construction capacity, through
on-lending by DIB and Bank Misr. It would also initiate policy reforms to
improve sub-sectoral efficiency and finance a technical assistance program to
upgrade contractual and bidding practices. The export project, besides
providing finaace for export-oriented industries, would lead to, inter alias
correcting biases against exports, improving the complex and time-consuming
export and import control procedures, and overcoming a number of
infrastructural deficiencies. The Bank's last two industrial credits
supported a technical assistance program for SMI specifically in the areas of
technology and business management, including extension services and training
courses. The proposed SMI project would continue to support this program,
while expanding it in scope, and adding a new facility for dissemination of
information and development of investment profiles for promising SMI
projects. The proposed Bank loan for the project will be channelled through
DIB. DIB has recently created specialized units in its headquarters and
branches to cater exclusively to the needs of very small SSI and artisans,
while an increasing volume of its overall term lending is being directed to
SSI enterprises. The Bank's present support to construction and
export-oriented industries and SMI through its lending program is, therefore,
in line with Egypt's own priorities as set out in the current Five-Year Plan.
III.  THE BANKING SECTOR
A. Structure
3.01     The Egyptian financial sector, including the money market for short
term transactions and the capital market for medium and long-term
transactions, has expanded very rapidly during the last decade. In 1973, the
banking structure of Egypt was composed of the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE),
four commercial banks, and three specialized banks--all in the public sector.
The open door policy, introduced in 1974, substantially changed the
composition and structure of the banking sector. The enactment of Investment
Law No. 43 of 1974 allowed several foreign banks to enter the Egyptian market
by forming joint ventures, as well as establishing branches. Subsequent
amendments to Law 43, in 1977, allowed the establishment of new wholly
Egyptian owned banks. At present, 50 banks are operating in Egypt under the
auspices of Law 43. These are comercial banks authorized to engage in a full
range of banking activities, both in domestic and foreign currencies, and may
compete with the four Government owned commercial banks. Foreign bank
branches, numbering 21, operate exclusively in foreign currencies and are
primarily engaged in investment or merchant banking. In addition, there are
four specialized banks (including DIB) in the public sector, which serve the
specific financial needs of the agriculture, industry, housing and social
sectors. The ron-banking financial intermediaries comprise eight insurance
companies, two governmental social insurance organizations and some
non-deposit accepting private investment companies. The CBE monitors and
controls all banks operating within Egypt and is actively involved in
establishing monetary policy, including interest rates, and credit flows.



- 8-
B. Financial Resources and Application
3.02     The main financial resources of the banking sector consist of time
and savings deposits. The efforts of the banking sector to mobilize savings
have been relatively successful. The total bank deposits have increased from
LE 4.3 billion at the end of 1978 to LE 15.9 billion as of June 30, 1983, at
an annual real growth rate of about 15Z. The foreign currency deposits were
about 38% of total deposits on June 30, 1983, and have increased at about 16Z
annually in real terms. Successive increases in interest rates paid on time
and savings deposits (para 3.10), and the exemption of such revenues from
taxation have yielded sustained growth in deposits. The average maturity of
time and savings deposits has not increased significantly and is estimated at
about 6 months for deposits in Egyptian pounds and about one month for
deposits in foreign currencies. Only about 20Z of deposits are for more than
one year. To lengthen the maturity of deposits, a better structured interest
rate favoring medium and long-term deposits and a more innovative approach by
the banking sector would be required. The recent introduction of ten year
government investment certificates and similar commercial bank savings
certificates, paying 13% annual interest, is a definite improvement.
3.03     Besides deposits, other sources of funds are loans from the CBE
(local currency) and capital inflows from commercial, bilateral and
multilateral development agencies (foreign currency). These development funds
are available mainly to specialized banks for channelling to agricultural,
industrial, housing and social sectors.
3.04     The loans and advances offered by the banking sector have increased
from LE 2.5 !illion at the end of 1978 to LE 13.4 billion on June 30, 1983;
the average real rate of increase being 25% per year. The share of the
private business sector in total loans and advances has increased very rapidly
from 23% to 48% during the 4 1/2 year period, vhile the volume of credits to
this sector increased in real terms at an annual rate of 50% over the period.
Private business has now become the single largest beneficiary of bank credit,
receiving LE 6.5 billion or 48.5% of total loans and advances as of June 30,
1983. About one third of total loans and advances to the private business
sector were in foreign currency. A breakdown into major economic sectors
indicates that, out of total loans and advances as of June 30, 1983, 33.4%
were received by trade, 27.0% by industry, 18.1% by services, 5.9% by
agriculture and 14.7% by others. A study of the banking sector's operations
in Egypt in 1978-81 indicated that private business sector term lending
increased from LE 97.1 million in 1978 (14% of total private business sector
loans) to LE 530.8 million in 1981 (13% of total private business sector
loans). This is an average annual rate of growth in real terms of 48%, but it
is lower than the 54% increase in the volume of short-term loans. The above
trend has continued and reflects inadequacy of long-term resources with the
banking sector, and its reluctance to commit funds on long-term basis (para
3.05).
C. Financing of Industrial Sector
3.05     Overall:  Up-to-date data on financing patterns in the industrial
sector in Egypt is not available. During the last Five-Year Plan



- 9 -
(1977/78-1981/82) a total capital investment of LE 18.2 billion was made in
the industrial sector, of which about LE 3.5 billion was in the private
sector. The public sector industry relied on budgetary allocations,
suppliers' credits, bilateral and multilateral sources of assistance and
internal resources for financing of projects. Private sector industry also
utilized these resources, except that instead of budgetary allocations, it
utilized bank credits. Bank loans and advances to the private industrial
sector increased from LE 269.8 million in 1978 to LE 1,161.1 million in 1981,
or 37Z per year in real terms. During the sam period, the increase in term
loans (more than one year) to this sector was from LE 49.9 million (including
LE 24.1 million in foreign currency) to LE 202.1 million (including LE 69.0
million in foreign currency), or real growth rates of 40% annually for total
loans and 202 annually for the foreign currency component. The term loans
were, however, only 17.41 of total loans to the private industrial sector in
1981 despite the phenomenal growth. A considerable part of short-term loans
(estimated at about 40Z of total in case of a major public sector bank) were
rolled over to finance long-term needs. This is not in the best interest of
sound investment planning and carries risks for both the enterprises and the
commercial banks. Commercial banks' lending in Egypt is highly conservative
with loans made primarily to well-known customers with a high credit-standing
and on the basis of a rigid collateral policy. These banks neither have the
capability nor a desire to take risks on the basis of an objective analysis of
a project's financial viability. Consequently, the commercial banking sector
is not fully serving the needs of the private industrial sector for term
financing. DIB and MIDB are the major institutions providing, on the basis of
sound appraisal, medium and long-term loans to the private industrial sector.
DIB is emerging as the main institution to meet foreign currency needs of the
private industrial sector and its total term lending during the current
Five-Year Plan (1982/83-86/87) would be about 25Z of the total investment in
the private industrial sector.
3.06    The capital market is rather inactive in Egypt. The two stock
exchanges at Cairo and Alexandria list 22X of the registered enterprises and
serve only as secondary markets. The trading activity is very small because
most of the companies are closely held. The primary source of equity
financing, besides family and friends, are subscriptions invited through
newspaper advertisements and underwritten by commercial banks. The Capital
Market Authority, established in 1979 as a regulatory body, is trying to
promote the development of the capital market and to broaden the equity
ownership of enterprises.
3.07     SSI:  Commercial and joint venture banks have not been keen to
develop an SSI and artisan portfolio due to the relatively higher risk and
costs involved. Their procedures and requirements in terms of loan
application details have been cumbersome and out of proportion to the loan
sizes involved. On the other hand, small enterprise managers have been
skeptical and wary of banks and reluctant to respond to their complicated and
onerous requirements. As a result, the financial needs of the lower end of
firms at the scale of private enterprises have been poorly serviced. The two
specialized banks which attempt to address the financing needs of the group
are DIB and the Nasser Social Bank.



- 10 -
3.08     DIB is charged, within its development financing operations, with a
special objective to meet the capital investment needs of small scale
industry. In 1978, about 25X of DIB's term lending approvals were to SSIs; in
1982/83, this had risen to 301 and is expected to reach 50X in 1986. In view
of the large number of SSI and artisanal enterprises (para 2.08), DIB's 7040
loans to date to SSIs and artisans account for only a small part of the SSI
market.
3.09     The Nasser Social Bank is a non-interest charging bank, preferring,
in the case of productive loans, to accept a share of the profits (usually
about 121) from the investment. However, loans for productive purposes are a
very small part of its loan portfolio, 5Z in 1980/81 and less than 1Z in
1981/82. As its name suggests, it lends mainly for social needs, including
automobiles, weddings, vacations etc. This comprises 70-75Z of its loan
portfolio. Since its total credits in the banking system are about 0.5Z, and
its lending to SSI is less than 1Z of DIB's loan portfolio, it is quite
insignificant in the overall pictitre.
D. Cost of Capital
3.10     Interest Rates.  Interest rates are established by the CBE for all
local currency (LC) operations, while foreign currency (FC) rates for
commercial funds are set by market forces and are generally at a par with
Eurocurrency rates.  At present LC time deposit rates range from 8.5Z up to a
maximum of 13Z for five-year deposits and 101 for savings. Since 1977 all
interest earnings on deposits have been tax free.  To grant preferential
treatment to agriculture and industry, a maximum interest rate of 15Z was
established for loans to these two sectors in July 1982, while a minimum rate
of 16% was imposed on loans to the commercial (trade) sector. This
differential led commercial banks to make the more profitable loans to the
commercial sector; these loans have the added attraction for banks of
generally being of shorter duration.  The CBE feels that this tendency will be
controlled by rigorous enforcement of the commercial credit ceiling now in
place.  Lending rates for LC loans to agriculture and industry are currently
set at a minimum of 10% and a maximum of 131, down from the 13 - 151 range of
1981/82. FC short-term deposits earn a rate equivalent to about LIBOR less
0.51 handling charge. Premiums for long-term deposits are negotiable, but the
volume is insignificant. The FC lending rate for commercial funds is LIBOR
plus 1-2% margin, while onlending rates for funds received from official
development assistance are subject to CBE guidelines and are generally equal
to those for LC long-term loans, with some exceptions. For example, DIB
presently charges 15% interest on sub-loans made out of the World Bank loan
proceeds. Controlled prices of major goods, including energy, food and
housing, make inflation estimates difficult. Nevertheless, the annual
inflation rate is estimated to decline from 18% in 1982 to 141 in 1984 and 12%
in 1986. Consequently, DIB rates, including the interest rates on the
proposed Bank loan, as well as the mix of foreign and local currency loans to
be received by DIB sub-borrowers, would be positive in real terms.
3.11     Foreign Exchange Risk.  There are currently three different foreign
exchange pools in Egypt - the Central Bank pool, the commercial bank pool and



- 11 -
the free market - each with its own sources and uses of funds and with
separate exchange rates. All transactions in the Central Bank pool are at the
official rate which has been set at 70 piastres per dollar since 1979. This
pool is supplied by receipts from Suez Canal dues, petroleum and some
agricultural exports and funds are used primarily to service external
government debt and to finance imports of basic supply commodities. The
commercial bank pool is supplied mainly by cash remittances from Egyptians
working abroad, tourism receipts and the remaining non-oil exports. All
transactions in the commercial bank pool are at the official commercial bank
exchange rate, which was introduced as a separate rate in August 1981 and has
remained fixed at 84 piastres to the dollar. The "free" or own exchange
market is supplied by remittances from Egyptians working abroad, foreign
investment within the Law 43 framework and some tourist receipts. Private
individuals and companies can buy foreign exchange at a freely floating rate
in order to finance imports or to invest in dollar-denominated assets. Over
the past year, the free market rate has fluctuated between 110 and 125
piastres to the dollar.
3.12     The Government has been, since the second half of 1982, engaged in a
dialogue on the exchange rate regime with the IMF. In April 1983 the
Government introduced an important reform, allowing exporters to receive the
most favorable exchange rate, i.e. the free market rate. Although the
official commercial bank rate remains fixed, many other transactions,
including remittance transfers and import payments, now occur at rates that
are intermediate between the official commercial bank rate and the
own-exchange rate.
IV. DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK (DIB)
4.01     DIB, the intermediary under the last five industrial credits, will
also utilize the proposed industrial credit. Its institutional and financial
aspects are reviewed in the following paragraphs.
A. Institutional Aspects
4.02     Establishment and Ownership.  DIB was established by a decree in 1975
and commenced operations in 1976 by taking over the functions and part of the
portfolio of the SSPIS Unit (Special Services to Private Industrial Seztor) of
the Bank of Alexandria. DIB's paid-in capital of LE 34 million (US $ 40
million equivalent) is held entirely by the Government, and DIB is subject to
supervision by the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) under Egyptian banking law.
DIB's annual budget, salary structure, financial statements and appropriations
of profit are subject to CBE approval.
4.03     Organization.  DIB operates from its head office in Cairo and three
branches located in Cairo, Alexandria and Tanta. The Tanta branch was
established in early 1979 and DIB plans to open the next branches at the city
of 10th of Ramadan and Port Said in the Canal area during 1984.



- 12 -
4.04     DIB's headquarters organization was changed in mid-1983 to cope with
substantially enlarged operations. Now there are 17 departments at the head
office which reporr to 11 General Managers who are members of the Management
Committee.  The Management Committee meets eve.y week under the chairmanship
of the VLce Chairman of DIB to deal with all management issues involving more
than one department.  The management committee does not deal vith loan
operations which are handled under DIB's existing system of delegation of
authority for loan approvals.
4.05     DIB has been very active in providing assistance to SSI and
artisans. It has provided so far more than 7,000 loans to such enterprises.
However, in view of the increased emphasis given to lending to very small SSI
and artisanal enterprises under the proposed project, DIB has created recently
a special division to handle loans to such enterprises in the SSI department
at the head office and in each branch. DIB has also obtained the services of
an advisor for two years, under EEC funds, to assist in DIB's promotional work
including SSI development.
4.06     DIB has an established system of delegation of loan approval
authority from the Board to the branch managers. Until recently, branches
were authorized to approve loans in local currency up to LE 200,000 for terms
up to 5 years. As these approval limits had substantially eroded in real
terms due to inflation, DIB after discussions with the appraisal mission, has
increased the approval limit of branches to LE 300,000. It has also
authorized the branches to approve foreign currency loans within the above
limit, and has streamlined the procedures for review of branch cases at the
head office to avoid delays. The branches also perform their normal functions
of customer relations, disbursement and collection of loans and maintenante of
customer deposits and accounts. The head office handles all appraisals for
loans in amounts exceeding the authority delegated to the branch managers.
4.07     Board, Management and Staff.  The number of DIB Directors is seven;
this includes two outside members. The five internal Directors consist of the
Chairman, Vice Chairman and three General Managers. The present two external
Directors who have been on the Board since DIB's inception, are a Professor of
Economics at Alexandria University and an Advisor in the General Authority for
Investment and Free Zones. These external members have provided valuable
advice to DIE.
4.08     As the legal provisions governing the composition of the Board limit
DIB's ability to draw further on the experience and expertise of external
Directors, the Government, at the urging of the Bank, has set up an advisory
committee to the DIB Board consisting of five prominent persons with wide
experier-ce in private industry and finance.  The committee will continue to
function during the utilization of the proposed loan.
4.09     The Board meets about once a month or more often as necessary to
decide on loan applications for amounts exceeding LE 500,000 or its equiva-
lent in the case of a foreign currency loan. All cases submitted to the Board
are screened by a loan committee consisting of the Vice-Chairman and the three
General Managers.



- 13 -
4.10     DIB's senior and middle management team has remained virtually
unchanged since its inception. As the team has gained experience, there has
been considerable improvement in the delegation and communication of
information between departments. This process should accelerate further as a
result of the formation of the management committee. There has been
improvement in the performance of the management also, due to training of
senior managers in foreign institutions during the last four years and the
provision of extensive advisory services. The entire management team, having
been drawn from the Bank of Alexandria, does still have, albeit decreasingly,
an inclination to follow commercial bank practices concerning collateral for
loans, amortizat-on periods and loan supervision. Rapid changes in outlook
and quality of DIB's middle management cannot be realistically expected as DIB
has to operate within an institutional framework, being a public sector bank,
which prevents direct recruitment of senior staff at competitive salaries.
4.11     As of December 31, 1983, DIB had a total of 484 employees including
262 professional staff (including top management). DIB's salary scales make
it difficult to recruit top quality experienced staff especially as the
emergence of the large number of merchant banks in Egypt has created increased
demand for individuals with experience or knowledge of project analysis, and
has pushed salary levels well beyond DIB's permissible scales. DIB's salary
levels, which are fixed by the Government, for a typical appraisal officer
with about two to three year- experience are only one third of salaries paid
by the merchant banks. However, DIB has brought about improvement in staff
quality by recruiting fresh graduates and training them with the help of
advisors, and by sending its appraisal officers to training courses abroad.
Professional staff turnover at about 15S per annum has resulted in the
departure of experienced professionals which has slowed down improvement in
appraisal and supervision work. The Bank's preparation mission for the
proposed project had discussed this issue with the concerned Government
departments, CBE, and DIB. Following the mission's advice, DIB has decided,
with the approval of CBE, to increase its annual bonuses to double their
present level, thus, raising total staff emoluments by about 50S. DIB has
also agreed to continue to review these emoluments on an annual basis and to
make further upward adjustments in financial incentives. This should help to
reduce staff turnover and recruit better staff.
4.12     A substantial program of management technical assistance, funded by
USAID, commenced on October 1, 1981. The scope of the program, which was
reviewed by the Bank at USAID's request prior to finalization, covered 12
tasks relating to areas largely within the authority of DIB management. The
major areas were (i) review of organizational structure including improvement
of services to clients, improvement of economic research and SSI operations,
(ii) accounting, management information systems (MIS) and internal audit and
(iii) future development plan. The contract to provide the services was
awarded to a consortium of companies - Price Waterhouse and R. Robert Nathan
Associates.  The consultant's report with specific recommendations was
completed in October 1983, and it has been reviewed by Bank staff. DIB has
(a) accepted the recommendations relating to computerization of its loan and
central accounting system and is in the process of acquiring and installing a
computer in its head office; (b) accepted the recommendations regarding MIS
and computer software to produce data for MIS is being acquired; and (c)
implemented the recommendation to establish a client service department.



- 14 -
There are two major areas in which further action is required based on
consultant's recommendations. First, the internal audit department should be
strengthened by preparation of a 3-year work proeram for inspection of
departments in a systematic manner, introduction of a manual for internal
inspection and transfer of responsibility for follow up on findings to the
internal audit department. Second, the economic evaluation of projects should
be improved by more extensive use of shadow prices for inputs, and application
of more realistic assumptions on variables (including capital cost, exchange
rate, debt servicing, project implementation schedule, unit production cost,
and unit profit margins) to be used in the sensitivity analysis. During
negotiations, agreements have been reached with DIB to carry out above
measures by December 31, 1984.
4.13     Policies.  DIB's Policy Statement, originally adopted in 1978, was
amended and expanded in 1980. The Policy Statement provides, inter alia, that
DIB's financial assistance will be available mainly for enterprises in the
private and cooperative sectors, including artisans and persons providing
professional services. DIB will particularly assist projects which will
result in increased utilization of existing capacities and will endeavor to
spread its assistance among different regions in accordance with the broad
economic objectives of the Government. Normally, DIB limits its lending so
that the beneficiary projects' debt/equity ratio does not exceed 2:1, except
in the case of projects whose fixed assets excluding land and building do not
exceed LE 200,000 and in the case of hire-purchase operations, where up to 80%
of the project cost may be financed. Regarding equity investments, DIB
usually will not take up more that 251 of the equity of an enterprise and
DIB's total equity portfolio will not exceed its own equity. Financial
exposure of DIB, in all forms of assistance (loans, equity participation and
guarantees) to a single borrower shall not exceed 20Z of DIB's equity, which
may be relaxed up to 25X in exceptional cases. DIB follows rather
conservative collateral policies, although there is a trend towards a
relaxation in this respect.
4.14     Procedures.  There has been improvement in DIB's project appraisal
work as a result of internal training courses conducted by advisors for
appraisal staff and attendance at courses conducted by various institutions,
including the EDI. Continuous input has also been provided by Bank staff
during supervision missions and during review of sub-loans submitted by DIB.
The feasibility studies of subprojects are generally comprehensive, but
sometimes the quality is inconsistent mainly due to loss of experienced
appraisal officers. Besides, there is room for further improvement of
economic and market evaluation of projects. A project advisor, engaged in
March 1984, under EEC funds, has started to provide guidance and further
training to staff in appraisal and supervision work. (Para 4.15). He will
also assist DIB in the preparation of a five-year plan for the employment of
professional staff for project appraisal and supervision. During
negotiations, agreement has been reached with DIB to increase the number of
appraisal officers to a total of 20 by June 30, 1985.
4.15     Project supervision is essentially focussed on the financial
aspects. DIB lacks an organized project supervision system and adequate



- 15 -
technical staff (now only 8 at the head office) to provide a systematic
project-oriented follow-up assistance. The large number of loans in DIB's
portfolio (5,000 at the end of 1982) makes periodic contact with all borrowers
difficult. To formulate a project supervision system specially suited to its
operations, DIB would use the services of the project advisor who has been
already engaged under EEC funds for a one-year period. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from DIB with respect to the preparation and
introduction of an improved project supervision system acceptable to the Bank
by December 31, 1984 and the increase in the number of project supervision
staff to 16 by June 30, 1985. During supervision missions, Bank staff will
give special attention to the progress on preparation and implementation of
the project supervision system.
B. Operations and Financial Aspects
4.16     Overall Operations.  DIB's loan and equity investment operations have
shown a rapid decline in short-term operations and a significant increase in
medium- and long-term foreign currency operations in the last 3-4 years (Annex
2).  In 1982/83, foreign currency loan approvals amounted to LE 68.4 million
($85.5 million) and were 651 of total term loan approvals during the year.
DIB has thus become mainly a provider of medium- and long-term foreign
currency investment funds to industry in Egypt although the local funds still
continue to be important. About two-thirds of the loans in 1982/83 were for
acquiring machinery and 431 of them had maturities ranging from five to ten
years. (Details in Annex 3)
4.17     Bank-Financed Operations.  DIB has so far received two IDA credits
(Credit No. 412 - $15 million and Credit No. 576 - $25 million) and three
loans (Loan No. 1533 - $40 million, Loan No. 1804 - $50 million and Loan No.
2074 - $120 million) during the last ten years. The closing date for DIB I
was extended by 2-1/2 years and that for DIB II by 1-1/2 years. It appears
that these delays were caused by DIB's initial inexperience with term lending
operations. DIB III was fully committed on schedule. Disbursements in
subsequent loans have been on or ahead of schedule. DIB's improved
performance in utilizing Bank funds has been further demonstrated during the
implementation of DIB V. As of December 31, 1983, loan commitments totalled
$98.0 million and disbursements amounted to $29.1 million against the
projected levels of $80.0 million and $25.2 million respectively. DIB is also
one of the banks responsible for channelling loans under the Bank's
agroindustrial projects (Credit No. 988-EGT and Loan No. 2243-EGT).
4.18     DIB has made 652 subloans out of Bank funds up to December 31, 1983,
for a total of $225.4 million. These loans have generated a total investment
of $800.3 million 1/, as per estimates made at the time the projects were
appraised, and have created about 98,800 jobs, i.e., at a cost of $8,100 1/
each (1982 prices). The major industrial subsectors which have been
1/ Computed at the exchange rate of LE 0.84=$1.00.



- 16 -
beneficiaries of Bank-funded loans were chemicals and paper 262, food
processing 182, engineering 15%, building and construction 132, and textiles
142.
4.19     DIB's performance in utilising the first two industrial credits was
audited by OED. While Project Performance Audit Report (No. 4531 of June 7,
1983) recognized the significant contribution made by DIB for the promotion of
private industrial sector, particularly SMI, and the satisfactory utilization
of Bank industrial credits, it drew the following major conclusions in regard
to DIB's institutional aspects: (i) DIB's institutional development has been
hampered by constaints imposed upon it as it has to operate as a public sector
financial institution; (ii) salary scale limitations make it difficult to
recruit highly qualified and experienced staff at senior levels; (iii) project
appraisal has room for further improvements, particularly with respect to
market and economic evaluation, and supervision needs to be strengthened; (iv)
budgeting, accounting, financial control and management information systems
need improvement; and (v) DIB needs to mobilize funds from the local and
international markets to establish its financial independence. Remedial
actions required in the light of these conclusions are being taken by DIB
management, where actions lie within its authority, i.e., in all areas except
(i) above. As mentioned in para 4.11, DIB has agreed to mitigate the salary
constraint by increasing the level of bonus payable to its staff. The project
appraisal and supervision work will be further strengthened with the help of
the advisor funded by EEC and the employment of additional staff (paras 4.14
and 4.15). Improvement of budgeting, accounting and management information
systems was a major part of the technical assistance program (para 4.12) which
is under implementation. In regard to mobilization of resources from the
domestic capital market, DIB is already reducing its dependence on the CBE
substantially and is borrowing from other banks. DIB management feels that
DIB should not attempt to compete with commercial banks for funds by entering
into retail deposit mobilization, which appears to be an appropriate policy;
such an activity would require to deal with a large number of depositors and
distract DIB from its long-term lending objective. As regards mobilisation of
foreign currency resources, DIB has beer. approached on several occasions for
providing lines of credit of short-term funds, which would not fit the
maturity profile of DIB loans. During negotiations, assurances were received
from DIB to make its best efforts to raise long-term foreign currency funds
from commercial sources to meet a part of its resource gap (para 4.28).
4.20     Profitability.  DIB's income statements for 1979-1983 are attached as
Annex 4. DIB's profits have been adequate. Before-tax return on average
equity ranged between 142 and 302 p.a. Return on equity has increased despite
large increases in DIB's paid-in capital between the years 1979-83. This
illustrates DIB's ability to deploy funds in a remunerative manner. Return on
total assets has been adequate (between 2.62 and 3.2S) and DIB has enjoyed an
adequate average spread on borrowed funds excluding current deposi.s.
4.21     As provided in its statutes, 252 of DIE's profits are set aside as
legal reserves and 752 of the profit remaining after appropriation to reserves
is distributed as a dividend to CBE, being DIB's shareholder. The remaining
252 is distributed to DIB's employees. However, in the past only about LE 75



- 17 -
has been paid to each employee in cash; the rest has been credited into
various social security schemes on their behalf.
4.22     Financial Position.  DIB's balance sheets for 1979-1983 are provided
in Annex 5.   DIB's total assets have grown at an average annual rate of over
40X during the 1979-1983 period. As of June 30, 1983, 95Z of DIB's assets
were accounted for by outstanding loans, reflecting a high degree of resource
utilization, and indicating a need for further resource mobilization. DIB has
maintained a satisfactory liquidity situation, its current ratio being above
1:1. Despite the high rate of growth of assets and debt, DIB has a very
satisfactory financial structure after the doubling of its paid-in capital to
LE 20 million in 1979 and further increasing it to LE 35 million by
1983/1984. The long-term debt/equity ratio was 7.3:1 as of June 30, 1983,
which is within the limit of 8:1 fixed under the loan agreement for DIB V.
Overall, DIB has a strong financial position and is well placed to continue
expanding its operations.
4.23     Quality of Portfolio.  As of June 30, 1983, DIB's loan portfolio
amounted to LE 316 million having more than doubled in two years, and nearly
70% being in the repayment stage. Total arrears of principal, on the same
date, amounted to LE 8 million (2.5% of loan portfolio) and affected 13.01 of
DIB's loan portfolio, which is acceptable (Annex 6). Projects as yet
uncompleted accounted for 27% of the arrearsi. The repayment performance of
DIB's SSI clients is almost the same as that of medium and large scale
enterprise clients. Overall, considering the rapid growth of DIB's portfolio
over the last four years, the portfolio is of sound quality. DIB has agreed
to strengthen its staff in the loan follow-up department to help prevent an
increase in arrears and has agreed to develop a supervision program to
maintain the soundness of its portfolio. (Para 4.15).
4.24     Provisions and Reserves.  DIB has consistently followed a very pru-
dent provision policy for doubtful loans. An elaborate procedure requires
that a review of each loan in arrears be made each year, after which DIB
auditors make their detailed review. As of June 30, 1983, total accumulated
provisions for doubtful loans were LE 23.2 million in addition to reserves of
LE 2.2 million. Together, provisions and reserves were a substantial 81 of
the loan portfolio and about double the total amount of principal and interest
in arrears. Moreover, DIB follows a fairly conservative collateral policy.
In view of the sound quality of the loan portfolio and the collateral
available, provisions and reserves appear to be fully adequate.
4.25     Audit.  DIB's financial statements are audited by Z. and H. Hassan
and Co., a reputable firm of chartered accountants associated with Messrs.
Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co. The audit is carried out in accordance with
Bank requirements and the performance of the auditors has been satisfactory.
4.26     Projected Operations.  DIB's operational projections for the period
1983/84-1986/87 are provided in Annex 7. The projections assume an average
annual increase of about 101 in nominal terms in both foreign and local
currency loan approvals. The rate of increase assumed is lower than the
historical rate of growth of DIB's total loan approvals and represents, in
fact, no real increase



- 18 -
given the expected inflation rate of 12-14% in 1984-87. It is, however,
considered appropriate in view of the need to consolidate operations, to train
staff and maintain the quality of the portfolio. Long-term local currency
loan approvals are expected to rise from LE 55.5 million in 1983/84 to LE 76.8
million in 1986/87. Long-term foreign currency loan approvals are projected
to increase from LE 78 million ($91 million) to LE 104 million ($124 million)
during the same period.
4.27     Resource Requirements.  In view of the projected portfolio expansion,
DIB's requirements for new resources are rising rapidly. DIB's major source
of local currency funds is a loan discounting facility provided by CBE. The
facility was originally approved for a total of LE 57 million at an interest
rate of 9.5% p.a. CBE agreed in 1981 to increase the facility up to LE 100
million at the same interest rate. However, DIB has already begun to reduce
its dependence on CBE and has begun to increase borrowing from other
commercial banks as inter-bank deposit rates are lower than the CBE's rate in
the present situation of high liquidity in the banking system. DIB is not
expected to experience difficulty in covering its local currency commitments
estimated at LE 203 million over the 1984/85-86/87 period.
4.28     Foreign currency resources made available to DIB totalled LE 313
million ($371 million) by June 1983, of which $267 million has been provided
by Bank/IDA and the remaining came mainly from USAID, KfW, EIB, AMDB, and OPEC
Fund. DIB has not yet been able to raise foreign currency funds from
commercial sources because such funds have been offered to DIB for short term
only and do not fit in its lending program. During 1984/85-1986/87, DIB
expects to commit foreign currency loans totalling LE 276 million ($329
million) including about LE 90 million ($112 million) for SSI projects and
plans to mobilize funds from following sources:
Sources of Foreign Currency
Funds, 1984/85 - 1986/87
($ million)
Proposed Loans from the World Bank
SMI Project                                    168.1
Construction Industry Project                  50.0
Export Industry Project                        30.0
Total:          248.1
Proposed Loans from Other Sources                  59.9
Existing Resources as on 6/30/84                   21.0
Total of all sources                              329.0
As shown above, DIB would use $248.1 million out of three proposed Bank loans
and $80.9 million from other sources including KfW, EIB, and AMDB. In order
to ensure that all the necessary funds are available to DIB in a timely
manner, assurances were received during negotiations that DIB will commit at
least $25 million each year during 1985-1987 from sources other tnan the
Bank. DIB's resource mobilization activities will be reviewed by the Bank at



- 19 -
the end of each year and further commitments under the proposed loan will be
continued only if DIB meets the above requirement. Also, in order to reduce
DIB's dependence on official sources of financing and to diversify its
financial sources, DIB will make its best efforts to mobilize funds from
commercial sources to the maximum extent.
4.29    Projected Profitability and Financial Position.  Projected income
statements, cash flow statements and balance sheets are provided in Annexes
9-11. DIB is expected to maintain adequate profitability with net profit
before taxes rising from LE 12.7 million in 1983/84 to LE 21.8 million in
1987/88, and return on equity ranging between 26% and 31%. Appropriations to
reserves will be equal to 25% of profits, and 75% of remaining will be paid to
CBE as dividend. Provisions for doubtful debts and resources will be
maintained at 6% of outstanding portfolio. DIB will maintain satisfactory
liquidity with the current ratio expected to be above 1.0. DIB's financial
structure will continue to be sound. Its debt/equity ratio would become 7.7:1
on June 30, 1984 and would cross the present 8:1 limit in 1985. It is
proposed to increase the debt/equity limit to 9:1 under this project (para
6.18) considering substantial expansion in term loan operations and
satisfactory quality of portfolio of DIB.
V. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR SMI
A. Background
5.01    The Bank's support for technical assistance to SMI was initiated with
a pilot program included in the DIB III project. 1/ Based on experience of
the pilot program, an enlarged technical assistance (TA) program for SMI was
established under DIB V 2/ (now referred to as Phase II). It comprised the
following components: (I) technical extension services to SMI, to be provided
by six mobile teams of extension officers in Cairo and Alexandria, (ii)
financial and management services to SMI, (iii) training of SNI managers and
owners, (iv) establishment of a subcontracting exchange and (v) training of
staff implementing the program. The foreign currency cost of the program was
estimated at $1.0 million including contingencies and administration costs and
the local currency cost was estimated at LE 355,000. The entire foreign
currency cost was funded out of loan No. 2074 while the local cost was to be
provided by the Government. The program was due to run from June 30, 1982 to
December 31, 1984. The Government agency responsible for implementing the
program is the Engineering and Industrial Design Development Centre (EIDDC) in
Cairo. EIDDC subcontracted the provision of foreign experts and imported
equipment, vehicles, etc to the International Labor Office (ILO), under a
formal agreement which had been reviewed by the Bank.
1/      For details, see Supplemental Letter dated April 12, 1978, Loan
1533-EGT.
2/      For details, see Supplemental Letter dated January 12, 1982, Loan
2074-EGT.



- 20 -
B. Evaluation of Phase II Program
5.02    The Phase II program has made generally satisfactory progress despite
some delays in the commencement of two of its components, namely financial and
management services and sub-contracting exchange. The commencement of various
activities under the technical assistance program has been staggered, to some
extent, to allow time to EIDDC to employ necessary additional staff and to
achieve some momentum in activities already started before taking up new
activities. The advisor for technical extension services arrived in September
1982 and has played an effective role in the selection and training of
extension officers.   Four teams of extension officers have been already
established and the remaining two will be in place before the end of 1984.
The number of SMI units contacted by extension teams has increased from 39 to
65 per month and it appears that the target of 600 units per year will be
reached within 1984. Seven training courses for owners/employees of SMI
establishments have been held with a high degree of participant response. The
number of training courses as well as course-hours exceed the projected
level. The overseas training of EIDDC staff is proceeding smoothly and so far
8 extension services staff have been trained. The advisor for financial and
management services arrived in September 1983 for a two-year term. He has
already organized one team for extension services and another team will be
organized within 1984. The advisor for sub-contracting exchange is expected
to join in September 1984 for a six month period. The two delayed components
of the program are now expected to be fully completed by March 1985 and August
1985 respectively.
5.03    EIDDC is required to evaluate the results of services provided under
various components of the Phase II program on a sample basis and following an
agreed upon criteria. The first such excercise, relating to technical
extension services, was completed in April 1984. It showed that 32
enterprises, out of a sample of 84, had already obtained positive results and
another 30 had potential for improvement in their performance. A se' cted
review of EIDDC client files and discussions with a few of the assisted
enterprises by the appraisal mission, had indicated that advice and assistance
offered by extension services teams was practical and appropriate and the
enterprises were pleased with the services. Also, the number of enterprises
seeking EIDDCs' assistance on their own initiative is increasing and now about
40X of the team visits are in response to such initiatives.
5.04    Shortcomings in the implementation of the program have appeared in two
areas: (i) The Federation of Egyptian Industry has not been very effective in
disseminating information to its SMI members about the activities undertaken
under the TA program despite the protocol of cooperation with EIDDC. This is
mainly because of the Federation being quite inactive vis-a-vis its SMI
mEmbers. However, EIDDC is making its own direct efforts to make its program
known to SMI through news media and increasing visits of extension service
teams to enterprises. (ii) While the extension service has been highly
appreciated by its SMI clients for its practical, trouble-shooting on-the-spot
approach, it has yet to result in use of more modern technology and production
methods by the SMI clients. This weakness is expected to be corrected when
the financial and management services component becomes fully operative.



- 21 -
Overall, the experience gained during the Phase II program establishes
adequate ground for continuation and expansion of the program under the
proposed project.
C. The Proposed Program (Phase III)
5.05    Under the proposed project, the Phase II program will be extended for
a period of three years commencing from January 1, 1985 and expanded in
regional coverage and scope of services. The Phase III program will also be
implemented by staff of the Small Scale Industries and Training Department
(SSITD) which is the new title of the SSI Development Department after its
taking over EIDDC's training activities. The manager of SSITD has
consequently been elevated to the rank of Director General and will be
responsible for the entire program. The proposed program aims to increase the
number of extension teams; increase regional coverage by opening extension
bases at Ismailia and Tanta; continue financial, management and training
services; fully streamline the operations of subcontracting exchange; and to
set up a new project development and implementation unit. The foreign
currency cost of the program is estimated at $1.5 million (para 5.13) and the
local currency cost at LE 1.6 million. The ratio of local cost to foreign
cost will now be almost 1:0.75 as compared to 1:2.4 under Phase II. This
change in proportion is evidence of the greater self managed operations and
gradual phasing-out of foreign advisory support. As under Phase II, DIB
clients will receive priority in assistance, which will be formalized by
extension of the protocol of cooperation between EIDDC and DIB signed under
Phase II.
Program Components
5.06    The Phase III program will have the following components:
Ci) Technical Extension Services - to be expanded from six teams to
13 teams, eight based at Cairo, three at Alexandria and one each
at Tanta and Ismailia.
(ii)  Management and Training Services - to be continued and expanded
in terms of management advisors, to be based at Cairo.
(iii) Project Development and Information Services - to be provided by
a new unit to be set up at Cairo.
(iv) Subcontract-ng Services - to be continued from a subcontracting
exchange planned to be set up at Cairo under Phase II.
(v) Training for EIDDC and SSITD staff through training courses
abroad.
(vi)  Provision of short-term consultants for specific industrial
problems.
The details of the above components are given below:



- 22 -
5.07     Si) Technical Extension Services:  Under the Phase II program, the
Cairo unit is expected to be expanded to four mobile teams by December 1984.
This unit will be expanded in stages to eight teams by December 1985 and serve
SMI units in Greater Cairo. The Alexandria unit, which became operational in
March 1983 will have two operational teams by December 1984 and will be
expanded to three teams under Phase III. Two new units will be started; one
at Tanta, to serve SMI units in the Lower Nile Delta and one at Ismailia to
cover the Suez Canal area. The Tanta and Ismailia units will be set up in
1985 and 1986 respectively. Each unit will be headed by a national expert and
each team will be composed of two extension offices. The output level
expected of each team will be 100 visits per year. On this basis it is
expected that 1,300 SMI units will receive at least one visit per year upon
the completion of the proposed Phase III program. Under Phase II about 34
companies (about 5Z of those visited) required further technical assistance
from one or more of EIDDC's technical departments. If this proportion is
maintained, about 65 SMI units will need assistance each year from EIDDC
technical departments. EIDDC has adequate capacity to handle this projected
demand. The Phase III program includes provision, under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, of a foreign advisor for 12 staff months up to
December 31, 1985 after which the national expert recruited earlier will take
over the operation of the program.
5.08     (ii) Management and Training Services:  Under this component, the
management and financial services and the training programs for SKI set up
under Phase II will be merged. The management advisory service will be
staffed by 7 specialists qualified in financial management, marketing, and
production management. The advisors will be able to provide a broad range of
services including market counselling, sales promotion and advertisement,
accounting and cost analysis, financial counselling and credit management,
production management, plant studies, personnel management, etc. The training
services would be manned by a training officer who would work closely with the
technical extension teams and the management advisors to design short (2-3
week) training programs in the following areas:
-   Shop-oriented courses      -   machine shop, foundry and tool room
practices
-   Trade-oriented courses     -   tool maker, fitter, carpenter, welder,
mechanic and turner
-   Process-oriented courses   -   heat treatment, tanning and fruit
preservation
-   Product-oriented courses   -   footwear, garments and plastics
-   Technical subject courses  -   preparation and reading of blueprints
etc.
-   Management courses         -   general management, marketing
financial management, production and
personnel management and credit
management.



- 23 -
The unit will have the services of a foreign advisor for 15 staff months under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
5.09     Project Development and Information Services:  The collection and
dissemination of information is an important aspect of SMI technical
assistance. Besides furnishing timely information to SMI entrepreneurs for
taking investment decisions, availability of information is essential for
preparation of industry profiles and feasibility studies. The services will
also provide information on export marketing opportunities, market studies on
demand trends, general statistical information on size of market, availability
of raw materials etc. Specifically, the information unit will perform
industry outlook surveys, feasibility studies, market surveys, identification
of new SMI opportunities. The services will also collect and disseminate
information regarding legislation, regulation and taxation affecting SMIs.
The unit will be staffed by four information specialists including one
national expert to head the unit, and economist and research assistants.
5.10     Subcontracting Services:  The establishment of subcontracting
exchange proposed under Phase II will commence in September 1984 with the
arrival of foreign advisor for a 6-month period. Under Phase III, the
exchange will fully streamline its operations and receive 6 staff months of
advisory services under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, possibly
divided into three two-month visits by foreign advisor, who will be assisted
by three local counterparts. The arrangement for exchange of information
between EIDDC and the Federation of Egyptian industries (established under
phase II) will be brought into operation for the implementation of this
component of the program.
5.11     Staff Training:  In order to build up a group of competent advisory
and extension staff, a program of staff training by deputation of staff to
selected training courses abroad will be continued. During Phase II, 8 SSITD
and EIDDC staff were deputed abroad for training and study tours for a total
of 28 weeks. This program, which proved to be useful in acquisition of
knowledge of advanced extension and development techniques will be continued
and about 16-18 staff are expected to attend courses abroad under Phase III.
5.12     Short-term consultants:  In order to enable study of specific
industry-related problems, it is proposed to provide for recruitment of short
term experts for periods ranging from 2 to 3 months either locally or from
abroad in various areas such as footwear and leather industry, plastics
products, food products, ready made garments, ceramics, etc. These experts
will be recruited on an as-needed basis up to a total of 45 staff mo.nths,
including 27 staff months of foreign advisory services.
Cost and Financing:
5.13     The total estimated cost of the proposed program for the three-year
period 1985-87 is given below:



- 24 -
Component                       Total Cost
Foreign          Local (LD)
(i)  Technical Extension Services          240,000          431,000
(ii)  Management & Training Services        128,000          162,000
(iii)  Project Development & Information
Services                                  -           60,000
(iv)  Subcontracting Exchange                60,000           90,000
(v)  Staff Training                        300, 000
(vi) Short-term Advisors                    204,000          90,0000
Subtotal                      932,000          833,000
Administration and Contingencies               537,000          444,000
Costs of Existing Staff                           -             300,000
Total                       1,469,000        1,577,000
5.14    The foreign currency cost includes Ci) 60 staff months of foreign
advisory services, (ii) equipment and vehicles (iii) computer hardware and
software, training equipment and office equipment, and (iv) support and
overhead costs for the foreign experts. Detailed cost estimates are shown in
Annex 12.
5.15    The foreign currency cost will be met by an allocation of $1.5
million made out of the proposed loan. This amount will be provided by the
Government to EIDDC as a grant because EIDDC is not yet in a position to fully
recover the cost of its services from SSI enterprises. The Government will
also provide the local currency cost to EIDDC by augmenting its budget to the
required extent. In addition, DIB will credit a sum equivalent to 0.42% of
the outstanding sub-loan amounts out of its interest spread under the proposed
loan (para 6.11) to a special account within DIB. The accumulated funds will
be used to support the cost of EIDDCs' extension service to SMI, especially
borrowers of DIB. The annual allocations from the fund will be agreed between
DIE and EIDDC in consultation with the Bank. The Government's obligation to
meet the local currency requirements of the Phase III program would be reduced
by the amounts transferred from the fund by DIB.
Organization, Management and Staffing:
5.16    The program will continue to be implemented by the SSITD of EIDDC
under the direct supervision of the Director General of the departme-t. As in
the past, each of the four technical extension services units (Cairo,
Alexandria, Tanta and Ismailia) will be headed by national experts who will be
persons with at least 10 years' experience. The remaining units - management
services, training, subcontracting and project development - will also be
headed by national experts recruited at competitive salaries on contract
basis. The bulk of the technical staff will be recruited from within EIDDC.
The total staff involved in the program is expected to increase from 22 (by
end of 1984) to 45 by end of 1987, which can be accomplished, given the
expected degree of local currency support. The staffing plan for SSITD by end
1987 is attached as Annex 13.



- 25-
5.17     Under Phase II, EIDDC subcontracted with ILO to recruit experts and
procure equipment and vehicles. This arrangement worked successfully and
EIDDC will have the option of continuing the arrangement under Pbase III.
Otherwise the foreign experts can be recruited by inviting proposals from
consulting firms and equipment procured directly by EIDDC. In either case,
Bank guidelines for recruitment of consultants and for procurement of
equipment will apply.
5.18     Cooperation between EIDDC and DIB: EIDDC and DIB signed a protocol
of cooperation specifying the services to be provided by EIDDC to DIB clients
and DIB's obligation to provide lists of its SMI borrowers to EIDDC and to
refer their problems to EIDDC. This protocol has resulted in close
cooperation between DIB and EIDDC staff implementing the Phase II program.
Under Phase III, the protocol between DIB and EIDDC will be extended up to the
end of 1987.
5.19     Monitoring and Evaluation:  EIDDC has submitted quarterly reports on
implementation of the program regularly providing details of firms surveyed,
firms availing of technical services from EIDDC's technical departments and
training courses conducted. The same system of reporting will be continued
under Phase III. A detailed system of evaluation of results of the program,
calling for a survey of lOX of the firms assisted under any of the program
components was also prescribed under Phase II. The benefits derived from the
program by the assisted firms are, as far as possible, to be quantified and
translated into cost savings achieved. Other non quantifiable benefits such
as quality improvement, introduction of new production methods were to be
assessed in general terms. The first such evaluation under Phase II was
completed in April 1984 and the same system is proposed to be continued both
for monitoring and for evaluation of the Phase III program.
VI. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives:
6.01     The proposed project would support the program for the development of
small and medium scale industries in Egypt. More specifically, its main
objectives are:
(i) to help the development of SMI and thereby contribute to the
Government's objectives of encouraging the private sector and
fostering employment creation;
(ii) to improve productivity and efficiency of SMI through a comprehensive
technical assistance program; and
(iii) to further develop the institutional capacity in Egypt for
identifying and financing viable and priority industrial projects.
6.02    The above objectives are in line with the Government's five year plan
and are consistent with the Bank's sector strategy and lending objectives in



- 26 -
Egypt. The various project components which would help to meet the above
objectives are described below:
B. Financial Assistance
6.03     The proposed Bank loan of $170 million will include $168.1 million
for on-lending to eligible enterprises in the private industrial sector
through DIB. This would meet about 71 of total investment and about 20Z of
foreign currency investment in the private industrial sector during
1984/85-1986/87. DIB would use at least 701 of the loan proceeds to finance
SMI which are defined as enterprises with fixed assets, excluding land and
buildings, not exceeding LE 2.75 million in 1983 prices. Although the project
places special emphasis on the financing of SSI, no separate allocation of the
loan amount is proposed for this sector. In line with the agreements reached
under DIB V, DIB will increase its overall term-loan approvals for SSI to 401
in 1984. These targets will be further increased to 451 in 1985 and 501 in
1986 and subsequent years. Within the above targets, DIE's term loan
approvals for "small" SSI will be at least 20% of the total approvals. As the
proposed loan will meet about one-third of DIB's long-term resource needs
during 1984/85 to 1986/87, a substantial number of SSI projects would be
financed out of Bank funds. Under DIB V, SSI and "small" SSI enterprises were
defined as enterprises with total fixed assets (excluding land and buildings)
not exceeding LE 300,000 and LE 150,000 respectively in 1981 prices. These
ceilings have to be revised annually to reflect increases in the wholesale
price index in Egypt and work out to LE 420,000 and LE 210,000 in 1983 prices.
C. Technical Assistance for SMI through EIDDC
6.04    As elaborated in paras 5.05 to 5.12, the proposed project will
include a phase III program for technical assistance to SMI. The foreign
currency cost of the program is estimated at $1.5 million (paras 5.13 and
5.14) and will be financed under the proposed loan.
D. Use of Loan Proceeds:
6.05     The proposed loan will include the capitalized front end fee of
$423,940.  The credit line component ($168.1 million) of the loan w_ll be used
to finance industrial projects exclusively in the private sector. This would
include enterprises estabiished under Law 43 with public sector participation
because all such enterprises are legally private sector enterprises. Even if
they have a majority of public sector participation, they are exempt from
regulations applicable to public sector enterprises and have full autonomy in
their operations and decision-making.
6.06     The sub-loan proceeds will be used to finance the foreign exchange
cost of fixed assets and associated working capital of eligible enterprises
including those engaged in mining, manufacturing, tourism, and other
services. On the basis of past operations and project pipeline of DIB and
overall financial needs of SSI/artisan sector, it is anticipated that most of
the sub-projects to be financed under the credit lines are likely to be for
the manufacture of food products, textiles, read-made garments, furniture,



- 27 -
plastic products, leather products, engineering goods, and building
materials. The technical assistance component of $1.5 million for SMI will be
used to import equipment, to engage the services of advisors, and foreign
training of EIDDC staff.
6.07     On the basis of experience under earlier industrial credits to DIB
and its resource requirements during the next three years, the last date for
submission of sub-loan applications to the Bank will be June 30, 1987; the
last date for submission of applications will not apply to the technical
assistance component. The closing date of the loan will be December 31,
1990.
E. Main Features of the Loan
6.08     Lending and Relending Arrangements.  The Government will be the
borrower for the proposed loan of $170 million. The repayment term of the
loan will be 20 years including a five-year grace period. The Government will
onlend $168.1 million as a line of credit to DIB and will transfer the
technical assistance component of $1.5 million to EIDDC as a grant. DIB will
onlend the line of credit to eligible enterprises (paras 6.03) for terms not
exceeding 15 years including a grace period of up to three years. The loan
repayment by DIB to the Government will be according to the aggregate
amortization schedule of individual sub-loans. The Government will be
responsible, on behalf of EIDDC, for the repayment of technical assistance
component of $1.5 million. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between
the Government and DIB and acceptable to the Bank will be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
6.09     Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk:  The last industrial credit
(DIB V) had a fixed interest rate. DIB wishes to continue to borrow and lend
at a fixed rate, because its small and medium sized borrowers are reluctant to
borrow long-term at a variable rate and DIB is not prepared to accept the
interest rate risk. The Government will, therefore, carry the interest rate
risk and will repay the Bank according to the applicable interest rate during
the lifc of the loan. The Government will onlend the credit line ($168.1
million) to DIB at a fixed interest rate equivalent to the Bank rate at the
time of the approval of the loan plus 1 percent point for carrying interest
rate and foreign exchange risks. The Government will bear the foreign
exchange risk between the US dollars and the other currencies owed to the
Bank. The sub-borrowers will bear the exchange risk between the US dollars
and the Egyptian pounds and will repay their sub-loan in local currency at the
highest exchange rate between the Egyptian pound and the US dollar declared by
CBE at the time of repayment.
6.10     DIB will onlend the loan proceeds to sub-borrowers at a minimum
interest rate of 14%. The compensatory deposits of around 20% of foreign
currency commitment required by DIB from its sub-borrowers and the commitment
charges would increase the effective cost of these funds to more than 16% per
annum. The above interest rates will be positive in real terms considering
the expected inflation rate of 14% in 1983/84 and an estimated decline to 12%
by 1986/87. The interest rate structure will be reviewed on an annual basis



- 28 -
to reflect changes in the cost of similar alternative funds to Egyptian
borrowers, and the new rates will be applied to the uncommitted portion of the
Bank loan.
6.11     The maximum interest spread of DIB on the proposed Bank loan would be
3.5X; any margin over this limit will be transferred to the Government   DIB
would also transfer a spread of 0.42% per annum to a special fund (or LE
696,000 at the peak period of loan outstanding) to be established within DIB
for financing the local currency cost of the technical assistance for SMI to
be implemented by EIDDC and subsequent extension services by EIDDC to SKI,
particularly for the clients of DIB.. The Government would still have the
primary responsibility for meeting the local currency cost of the technical
assistance component of the proposed project but its obligation will decrease
by the amounts accrued under and made available through the above fund. The
annual allocations from the fund to EIDDC will be agreed between DIB and EIDDC
in consultation with the Bank. DIB will show the funds as a separate
liability item in its balance sheet and would submit an annual statement of
all credits and debits to the fund and its opening and closing balances in
each year.
6.12     Maximum Sub-Loan Size:  On the basis of DIB's policy statement, it
can finance individual sub-loans of up to $8.5 million size. In order to
ensure that a large number of sub-projects would receive assistance, the
sub-loan size under the proposed loan will not exceed $5 million. On the
basis of past experience with DIB and its planned operations, it is expected
that only a few sub-loans would have a size of above $2 million and that 450
to 50) sub-projects would receive financial assistance under the proposed loan.
6.13     Free Limit:  The free limit for sub-loans is proposed to be $1.25
million. It is estimated that about 45 subprojects representing about 60% of
total amount of credit line would be above the free limit.
6.14     Debt/Equity Limit:  Under the last industrial credit to DIB, its
maximum debt/equity limit was agreed to 8:1. On the basis of financial
projections of DIB, it would reach this limit in 1985. It is proposed that
the limit should be increased to 9:1 considering the substantial expansion in
term loan operations and satisfactory quality of loan portfolio of DIB.
6.15     Economic and Financial Rates of Return:  DIB will calculate economic
and financial rates of return for all sub-projects receiving term-financing
and having total investment-cost of above LE 800,000. The eligible
sub-projects will have a mir.imum economic rate of return of 121 and a minimum
financial rate of return which will not be less than the interest rate of DIB
applicable to foreign currency sub-loans (minimum of 14X).
6.16     Procurement and Disbursement:  The procurement procedures will be
consistent with those provided under previous industrial credits. DIB will
require its sub-borrowers to follow normal international shopping procedures
with comparison of offers from at least three different suppliers. A review
of DIB's procurement procedures during sub-loan review has shown that these
procedures are satisfactory and result in procurement of suitable equipment at
a reasonable price.



- 29 -
6.17     Disbursements will be made to finance the foreign exchange cost of
the goods or services. As agreed under DIB V, the sub-loan proceeds will
finance 100% of the cost of direct imports by eligible enterprises. In the
case of "off the shelf purchases", which may be required by some small
SSI/artisans, 60% of the local purchase cost of imported products will be
eligible for financing as "indirect" foreign exchange cost. The estimated
disbursement schedule of the loan is given in Annex 14. This is based on
disbursement profiles of IDF projects in EMENA region but assumes that
disbursements would be completed one year earlier in line with the past
performance of DIB.
6.18     Under DIB V, about 1,500 withdrawal applications, many with small
payments, are expected to be received. The number of withdrawal applications
will be larger and more small payments will be involved under the proposed
project because of a bigger loan amount and an increasing number of smaller
sub-loans to be financed by the participating banks. In view of the above and
considering the need for expeditious payments to suppliers, the Statement of
Expenditure (SOE) will be used for reimbursements of contracts below $20,000
equivalent. DIB will submit a monthly SOE giving information on amounts of
individual sub-loans, amount of payment, purpose of loan, name and address of
machinery supplier and the country of origin of the machinery. All the
supporting documents for disbursements covered under SOE will be made
available on request, to the Bank's supervision missions. Also, an
independent auditor will verify all SOE and the Special Account within four
months after the end of each financial year of DIB and his report will be
submitted to the Bank.
6.19     Reporting:  DIB will submit to the Bank periodical reports, as under
previous industrial credits. These reports will include suimmary of
operations, progress on utilization of loan and annual accounts and audit
reports. EIDDC will submit quarterly reports on the progress on
implementation of various components of the TA program for SMI. DIB and EIDDC
will also submit a report on the completion of the project.
F. Project Benefits and Risks:
6.20     The project's main benefits steu from its support to the promotion of
small and medium scale industries in the private sector. In line with the
past experience, the private sector would contribute to the development of
more competitive and efficient industrial enterprises. The project's emphasis
on financing a growing number of SSI enterprises would result in greater
employment at lower average capital investment. As SSI/artisan enterprises do
not normally require a well-developed infrastructure, remote areas of the
country can also experience gradual industrialization, and obtain a share in
new economic opportunities. The project would also contribute to further
ins,.itutional strengthening of DIB which should result in more efficient
resource mobilization and allocation. The technical assistance component
would help in better productivity and efficiency of SMI through extension
services and in more effective coordination between large industries and SMI
through sub-contracting services. It is estimated that about 450-500
subprojects would receive financial assistance and about 1,300 SMI units will



- 30 -
receive extension services per year. On the basis of experience under the
earlier industrial credits to DIB, the project is expected to create about
71,000 new jobs.
6.21     The risks with respect to the project mainly relate to the meeting of
overall targets for assistance to SSI by DIB and timely implementation of the
technical assistance program for SMI by EIDDC. DIB has to increase its term
lending to SSI to at least 50% of total loan approvals bv 1986. This target
is high but takes into account past performance of DIB as well as the scope
for financing of SSI/artisan sector in Egypt. It is also recognized that, to
foster its assistance to smaller SSI and artisans, DIB has taken special
institutional measures including the appointment of an advisor for promotion
of SSI, introduction of more simplified loan processing procedures, and
creation of specialized operational divisions at the head office and
branches. The technical assistance program for SMI carries the risks of
delays or inadequacy in the availability of local currency funds through
budgetary allocations to meet administrative costs. A provision has been made
to allocate a part of the interest spread of DIB on the proposed loan to a
special fund which will be used to finance the local currency cost of the
technical assistance program. Also, assurances have been received from the
Government that it would have the prime responsibility to meet the local
currency cost, if the fund is not adequate. Furthermore, the Bank would
provide more extensive supervision to the technical assistance program to
ensure its successful implementation. She project risks are manageable and
satisfactory safeguards are built in the project to overcome the risks.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND REWOMMIENDATIONS
7.01     The Bank has reached agreement during negotiations with the
Government and DIB on making a loan of $170 million, including the capitalized
front end fee. The Government will (i) onlend $16& 1 million to DIB for
onlending to eligible enterprises in the private industrial sector in Egypt
(para 6.03), and (ii) transfer $1.5 million to EIDDC as a grant to meet the
foreign currency cost of the TA program for SMI (para 6.04).
7.02     Agreements and understandings were also reached with the Government
on the following points;
(i)     The Government will implement the TA program for SNI through
EIDDC, commencing from January 1, 1985 (paras 5.05 to 5.19).
(ii)    The Government will finance the local currency cost of the TA
program for SMI estimated at LE 1.60 million, and make the
necessary funds available to EIDDC through annual budgetary
appropriations (para 5.15).
(iii)   The repayment term of the loan will be 20 years including a grace
period of five years (para 6.08).
(iv)    The Government will bear (i) the foreign exchange risk between the
US dollar and other currencies payable to the Bank, and (ii)



- 31 -
interest rate risk arising from the variable rate applicable to
the proposed Bank loan (para 6.09).
(v)     The Government will onlend the loan proceeds to DIB at one percent
above the Bank rate at the time of the approval of the proposed
loan (para 6.09).
(vi)    The Government will sign, before loan effectiveness, a subsidiary
loan agreement with DIB, acceptable to the Bank (para 6.08).
7.03        Agreements and understandings were reached with DIB on the
following points related specifically to the proposed loan:
(i)     The following definitions will be used for various categories of
SMI (para 6.03):
(a) Very Small SSI - Fixed assets excluding land and buildings, up
to LE 210,000.
(b) SSI -         Fixed assets, excluding land and buildings up to
LE 420,000.
(c) SMI -         Fixed assets, excluding land and buildings, up to
IE 2.75 million.
All value are in 1983 prices and would be adjusted according to
annual movements in the wholesale price index in Egypt.
(ii)    DIB will onlend the loan proceeds to eligible enterprises for
terms not exceeding 15 years including a grace period of up to
three years (para 6.08).
(iii)   The loan repayment by DIB to the Government will be according to
the aggregate amortization schedules of the individual sub-loans
(para 6.08).
tiv)    DIB will charge sub-borrowers a minimum interest of 14% subject to
any possible changes as a result of review of interest rate
structure on an annual basis. The maximum interest spread of DIB
on the proposed loan will be 3.5X. Any interest spread accruing
to DIB over and above the ceiling of 3.5Z will be transferred to
the Government. DIB will also transfer a spread of 0.42S to a
special fund to be used for financing the local currency cost of
TA program for SMI and extension services of EIDDC. The
Government's obligation to meet the local currency cost of the
program will be reduced accordingly. DIB will show the fund as a
separate liability item in its balance sheet and would submit an
annual statement of all credits and debits to the fund and its
opening and closing balances in each year (paras 6.10 and 6.11).
(v)     DIE will use at least 70X of loan proceeds to finance SMI and the
maximum sub-loan size will be $5 million (paras 6.03 and 6.12).



- 32 -
(vi)    The free limit for DIB under the proposed loan will be $1.25
million (para 6.13).
(vii)   The sub-borrowers will carry the foreign exchange risk between the
US dollar and the Egyptian pound (para 6.09).
(viii)  SOE procedures will be used by DIB for reimbursement of contracts
below $20,000 each (para 6.18).
(ix)    The last date for submission of sub-loans will be June 30, 1987
and the closing date will be December 31, 1990 (6.07).
(x)     ERR and FRR will be calculated for all subprojects with total
investment cost of above LE 800,000. The minimum ERR will be 121,
and minimum FRR will be not less than the interest rate of DIB
applicable to foreign currency sub-loans (minimum of 14X) (para
6.15).
7.04        The following agreements and understandings were reached with DIB
in regard to its overall institutional and financial aspects:
[i)    DIB will increase its annual term loan approvals to SSI to at
least 451 of the total by 1985 and 501 of the total by 1986 and in
following years. Within the above limits, DIB will approve at
least 20% of total term loans for very small SSI and artisans
(para 6.03).
(ii)    DIB will take measures to further strengthen its project
appraisal, particularly by improving the economic evaluation of
projects taking into account the recommendations of Price
Waterhouse report and increasing the number of professional staff
to 20 by June 30, 1985 (paras 4.12 and 4.14).
(iii)   DIB will use the services of its project advisor, funded by EEC,
to prepare and introduce a project supervision system acceptable
to the Bank by December 31, 1984. DIB will also increase the
number of project supervision staff to 16 by June 30, 1985 (para
4.15).
(iv)    DIB will strengthen the internal audit department taking into
account the recommendations of Price Waterhouse report (para 4.12).
(v)     DIB will mobilize at least $25 million per year during 1985-1987
to meet its foreign currency resource gap and commitments under
the proposed Bank loan in each year will be conditional to the
utilization of above amouncs. In this regard, it will make its
best efforts to mobilize funds from comunercial sources to the
maximum extent (para 4.28).
(vi)    The debt/equity ratio of DIB will not exceed 9:1 during the life
of the loan (para 6.14).
7.05        The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of $170 million
on the terms and conditions outlined above.



- 33 -
Annex 1-a
EGYPT
SMI PROJECT
Measures of Protection and ODmparative Advantage
Effective Rate of             Domestic Resource
Protection (ERP)                 Cost (DRC)
Sector               Public    Private            Ptublic      Private
Textiles
Cotton                   -28.10       42.2 (Spinning)    0.63         0. 92
Other                     35.47       63.8               0.99
Food                                      38.9                            0.58
Edible oils              -93.97        -                 0.57
Mnfg. food               -6 9.73                         0.31
Alcohol & Tobacco          4.61        -                 0.40         -
Metals                                  -253.8               -            1.62
Basic Metals          -2923.73         -               -27.56
transport Equipment      354.91        -                -6.43
Electrical Machines        9.3         -                 0.59
China & Glass           -633.63        -                -3.93
Building Materials             -          95.4               -            1.62
Source: World Bank Report No. 4136-ECT: Arab Republic of Egypt Issues of
Trade Strategy and Investment Planning.



- 34 -
Annex 1-b
EGYPT
SMI PROJECT
Public and Private Sector Industry
Performance Ratios
(LE in constant 1975 terms)
1976        1978       1980/81      1981/82
Pub. Priv. Pub. Priv. Pub. Priv. Pub. Priv.
GDP per LE 1 of Investment  2.09  6.9   1.46  3.7  2.04   2.03  1.67   3.0
GDP per LE 1 of Wages &
Salaries                  1.84   3.20  1.71  2.98  2.14   2.86  2.06   3.06
GDP per Person hployed       849  699   900  765   1056   696  1089  779
Wages & Salaries per Person
Employed                   462   218   527  256   492    243  528  253
Imports per Person
Employed                   2671  1038 2690  1607    na    na 3631  12 93
Imports per LE 1 of GDP      3.15   1.48  2.99 2.10    na    na  3.33   1.66
I=ports per LE 1 of
Investment                6.57  10.20 4.36  7.83   na    na  5.57   5.00
Exports per LE I of GDP      0.99   0.43  0.76  0.30    na    na  0.34   0.06
Exports per LE I of
Investment                2.06   2.98  1.32  1.11    na    na 0.56   0.19
Exports per Person
Employed                   837    303   682   229   aa    na   368    50
Source: Ministry of Planning, Cairo; and World Bank Rerart No. 4498-EGT,
Arab Republic of Egypt - Current Economic Situation and Growth
Prospects.
Note:   Imports exclude consumer goods.
Both imports and exports are in US$.
Data are based on domestic prices and various exchange rates and are not valid
for international comparisons.



- 35 -
EO!T                                          A         2
NB:   nary of Operatims              (LE' 000)
Years EIit,g Jame 30                      (six !Xths)  1980              1981           1982            1983
Approvals                                       No    h1W    NO         AfINM    Din Arm r  NO    AMW
Siore-Term Icons
(local Qzrirzy)                             239    9644   518    26591   540  34,542  329    36449
6diom and Iong-Tem Los
local QOsrry                                455    12884   942    36744   910   30465  653    36599
Forign Qwrecy                                94   20764   185    51839   213   44659  254    68440
Tbtal Medim and IorR-Tarm                   549   33648  1127    88583   1133   75124  907   105039
Short-Term loans
(Local O rmy)                               293    8102   526    15201   598   257    373    35509
1*dium and lbong-Tezm loams
local Oirrna:y                              407    15263   889    27272   928   34847  570    27052
Foreign Owrewy                               68    2190   168    30718   237   45761  236    47800
Total Medium    ndI-l                       475    37053  1057    57990   1165   80608  806    84852
Disbursements
Short-Term lams
(local Cbrrercy)                                    8636            28054          49658           44106
1mdium and lon-Term Ioans
local OQ rr-y                                      15479            27175           32904           25782
Foreign Owrery                                      9195            24477           36334          53144
Ibtal Medium and Iore-Tm                           24674            51652           69238           78926
Bpt   J rstets
Approvals                                     2      500                       5    3552
(azuu.tamnts                                  2      500                       5    3552
DisbursezAnts                                        471              167            1238            1406



- 36 -
VMF-T                                               Annex 3
DID: Analysis of Teem Loan fppromal                                 (in LE  000)
Year ElDing June 30                                                   1980             1981           1982             1983
NO AD MU    NO          AMOUNT NO    AMOUNT  I30       AMOUNT
Tin, .vnr    -                   -               -
Dv Geographical Distribution
Cairo Zone                                               169      15958   339    30531   336    31043    316   57622
Alexandra Zne                                            113      D034  209       105n   216    16656    268   14243
Lower Egypt                                              212      4597  470       22437   471    17752    229   16637
Upper Egpt                                                47       5696    94     14706    87     4366    102   13019
CAnal Zone                                                 8       365    15      10338    13      7529     12    3518
Total                                 569     33646  1127    88583  1123    75124    907  105039
By Size of baa
LIE        I  To   160D0                                     369       2176   697      4140   616     4075    433    3238
L.I   16001   To   51000                                      89      2681   199       6176   269      7295    188    6314
LE    51001   To  1ODO                                        35       3250    85      5753    90     6328    102    6314
1E   100001   To 500000                                       67      10062   116     32945   122   241121    151   33551
Over LA    500000                                              9      15477    30     39571    26    33305      33   52063
Total                             519     33648  1127     88583  1123    75124    907  105039
Sw Teims of Lons
Up to I Year
I to  3 n                                                     61       412   121       1677   142     5707    115    9320
3 to  5 n                                                    392      7245   866      21665   927    31284    762   47694
S to 10 n                                                     96     1599    133      54222    54    38133    46   45213
Over 10 Tears                                                                   7     11019                      3    2S12
Total                             549     33648  1127     88583  1123    75124    9D7 105039
Dv Punroae of Lans
Land and Buildings                                            22      537.3   50      15789   37       9255     53    6334
Machinery and Iquipmert
A.  imported                                             117     20433   213      49627   205    40856    240   65151
3. locally Purchaaed                                     21!      30O0  533        8835   565    11089   370   15883
Working Capital                                              191      4802   315      10528   3C0    12670    233   13514
Others                                                                         16       020     7     1076      11    4022
Total                             569     33648  1127    88583  1123    75124    907  105039
= Some loana can be offernd to nre than one pumpo.e.
av Site of Assets of forroera
Leas than LAE       500O                                     432      5541   811       9952   786    10360   491    7488
over LI. 500DO To  1OODO                                     30      1606    60       2143    92     3982      96   4393
over LE. 100000 To  200000                                    23      1935    69       4243    n      4841      73    5517
Over LE. 200000 To  500D00                                    27      3853    55       4748    70     7363    109  14365
Over LE. 5s0o0o  To 1000000                                   21      4605   64        7388    41     7745      59   13556
Over LE. IO0DO                                              16      16106    S5    60109   63    60833        79  59720
Total                             549     33648  1127     88583  1123    75124    907  105039
By Sector
Priwate Sector: 551                                          496     10631   999    22242  1013    25654    777   31354
Others                                       48     17336   124     60770   110    49470    130   73685
Co-Operatives                                                  2       291     -          -     -        -      -        -
Public Sector                                                  3      5192     4      5571      -      _       _         -
Total                             549     33648  1127     88583  1123    75124    907 105039
By Industrial Sub-Sector
Mineral and Engineering                                      198      2909  379       10111   322    10122    232   1579b
Primting and Paper                                            13       231    56      2433    41       823    42    5265
Ocemicals                                                     30      6010    61      11459    72     8773    118   27835
Building and Canstructions                                    38      7224    75     25836    52      7973     54   14038
rood                                                          57      68-2   109      8859  137    19248    134   18786
Spinning and Weaving                                          73      3207   144      10551   179    16481    126   14388
wood                                                          59      1892    91       3925   178     2692     59    1323
laCther                                                       19       205    17         79     9      140     12     531
Tourim and Notels                                             10      2336    54      11878    24     4367     18    3312
Othera                                                        52      1842   140       3452   109    6505    112    3766
Total                            549      33648  1127     88583  1123    75124    907  105039
D, Jobs Created
1 -  ! Vorkers                                             323      2521   726      8586   769    12102    503    99S2
10 - 24                                                     102      3934   167      8480   140      7999    172   12836
25 -     49                                                  64      5728    93      6624   105    14099      93  12794
50-        "                                                 33      2515    60      14732    63    13974     70   16415
100-more  '                                                   27     18950   81      50161    46    26950      69  46312
Total                             549     33648  1127     88583  1123    75126    907  105039



- 37 -
Annex 4
EGYPT
SMI PROJECT
DIB - Condensed Income Statements, 1980-1983
(LE'000)
For Years Ending                     6/30/80   6/30/81      6i30/82   6/30/83
(6 mos.)
INCOME
Interest on Deposits                   153.9       192.2       873.3     568.2
Interest on Local Currency Loans     3,347.3   10,803.5   16,372.6  21,170.1
Interest on Foreign Currency
Loans                                 1,730.4    4,853.4    7,741.8  14,430.9
Other Income                         660. 9    1,684.4    2,632.1   3,67 9.9
Total income                       5,892.5   17,533.5   27,619.8  39,849.1
EXPENSES
Interest On Local Currency Debts     1-204.2    4,380.9    6,628.7   8,439.5
Interest on Foreign Currency
Debts                                 1,196.1    3,340.7    5,641.3   8, 935.8
Other Charges                           63.5       436.8       498.4   1,022.6
Administrative Expenses                761.7    1,770.6    2,740.4   2,780.9
Provisions for Doubtful Debts        1,085.0    3,117.0    6,269.0   8,836.0
Other Provisions                       171.9       144.8       582.5   1,179.6
Total Expenses                     4.482.4   13,190.8!   22,360.3  31,194.4
Net Profit before Taxes               1,410.1    4,342.7    5,259.5   8,645.7
Taxes                                  815.1    2,858.7    3,759.5   5,695.7
Net Profit                             595.0    1,484.0    1,500.0   2,950.0
Appropriations
Reserves                               148.7       463.7       426.9     738.0
Dividends to CBE                       334.7       765.2       804.8   1,65 9.0
Dividends to Employees                 111.6       255.1       268.3     553.0
595.0    1,484.0    1,500.0   2, 950.0
Ratios
Profit before tax/Av. Equity (Z)        13.8        18. 9       20.0      30.5
Profit before tax/Av. Total
Assets (X)                               2.8         3.2         2.6       3.2
Admin. Expenses/Av. Total Assets (Z       1.6        1.2         1.4        1.2
Average Spread on Borrowing
(Excluding Current Deposits) (Z)       5.3         6.3        4.4        4.2



- 38 -
Annex 5
EGYPT
SMI PROCT
DIB - Condensed Balance Sheets, 1980-1983
(LE'000)
As of June 30                            1980        1981        1982        1983
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Banks                         4,726.7     5,077.8      9,843.8    10,104.3
Other Current Assets                   5,724.9     7,421.0      7,254.1     3,626.2
Total Current Assets                  10,451.6    12,498.8    17,097.9   13,730.5
Pbrtfolio
Loans Outstanding                    101,139.6   153,348.4   234,375.6   316,171.8
(Less: Provisions for
doubtful debts)                       (4,933.0)   (8,127.6)  (14,520.6)  (23,230.0)
Net Loans Outstanding                 96,206.6   145,220.8    219,855.0   292,941.8
Equity Investments                     1,370.7     1,567.1       2,864.8     4,474.0
(less: Provisions for likely
losses)                                  (15.9)      (16.2)         (2.4)      (81.3)
Net Equity Investments                 1,354.8     1,550.9       2,862.4     4,392.7
Net Loans and Equity Portfolio        97,561.4   146,771.7    222,717.4   297,334.5
Net Fixed Assets                          15.9        19.4          18.9        18.9
Total Assets                         108,028.    15 9,289.9    239,834.2   311,083.9
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Demand Deposits                        1,411.7     1,041.0      2,038.3      3,013.4
Ti-ue Deposits                           955.6     1,6,91.1      1,099.6     1,224.3
Other Current Liabilities              1,261.4     3,972.0      4,884.5      8,041.9
Total Current Liabilities              3,628.7     6,704.1      8,022.4    12,279.6
Long Term Debt
Deposits                               5,065.1     9,002.9      14,135.8    20,167.5
Central Bank of Egypt                 37,574.6    54,284.5     66,053.7    40,641.6
Other Banks                            2,555.0     2,509.8      17,979.3    57,924.3
.Foreign Currency Loans                34,908.6    54,193.2      90,599.7   132,330.9
Total Long Term Debt                  80,103.3   119, 990.4    188,768.5   251,064.3
Administrative Provisions                520.2       558.7       1,000.4     1,324.8
Taxes & Dividends Payable              3,222.5     6,013.7      15,593.0    14,214.7
EQUITY
Paid-inrCapital                       20,000.0    25,000.0      25,000.0    30,000.0
Reserves                                 554.2     1,023.0       1,449.9     2,200.5
Total Equity                          20,554.2    26,023.0      26,449.9    32,200.5
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY         108,028.9   159,289.9   239,834.2   311,083.9
RATIOS:
Current Ratio (times)                      2.3         1.9           1.3         1.1
Debt/Equity Ratio (times)                  3.8         4.4           6.7         7.3
Provisions and Reserves/
Portfolio (X)                              5.4         5.9           6.7         7.9



- 39 -
EGYPT                        Annex 6
SMI PROJECT
DIB: Pbrtfolio and Arrears of Principal
(LE '000)
As of June 30                    1980          1981         1982          1983
Pbrtfolio
Loan Outstanding                101140        153621        234375       316172
Loans Affected by Arrears        22989         13980        22601         41585
Principal Arrears
3-6 Months                        1063          1923          1667         1888
6-12 Months                        152           666         3581          4063
12-24 Months                       453          1638          1221         1384
Over 24 Months                     293           382           579          664
Total Arrears                     1851          4609          7048         7999
Ratios
Loans Affected by
Arrears/Pbrtfolio (Z)         23             9            10           13
Principal Arrears
/Portfolio (Z)                 1.8           3.0          3.0           2.5



- 40 -
EGYPT                              Annex 7
SMI PROJECT
DIB: Projected Operations, 1983/84-1986/87
(LE '000)
For years ending June 30,          1984        1985        1986        1987
Approva i8
Medium and Long tern loans:
Foreign currency              78,705      86,576      95,234      104,757
Local currency                55,544      63,498      6 9,848      76,833
Total Approvals               134249    150,074    165,082        181,590
Couitment s
Medium and long term loans:
Foreign currency              81,134      83,428      91,770      100,948
Local currency                49,981      60,790      67,828       74,612
Total Commitments            131,115    144,218    159,598        175,560
Disbursements
Medium and long tern loans:
Fore ign Currency             58,247      72,675      85,169       92,813
Local Carrency                3 9,888     56,750      65,6 91      72,645
Total Disbursements           98,135    129,425      150,860      165,458
Increase in short term
loan balances                    9,810      11,773      14,127       16,952
Equity Investments
Approvals                      3,000       3,000       3,000        3,000
Commitments                    3,000       3,000       3,000        3,000
Disbursements                  2,668       3,493       3,000        3,000



- 41 -
EG:YPT                       Annex 8
SMI PROJECT
DIB: Long Term Resources Position
as of June 30, 1983
(LE and $000)
Local Currency (LE'000)
Share Capital                                               30,000
Reserves and Retained Earnings                               2,200
Provisions                                                  24,523
Local Currency Borrowing                                   133,340
Total Local Currency Resources                             190,063
Less:
' ^al Currency Loans Outstanding                           120,875
Equity Investments                                           4,449
Fixed Assets                                                    19
Resources Available for Disbursements                       64,720
Less:
Undisbursed Commitments                                      4,456
Resources Available for Commitments                         60,264
Less:
Uncommitted Loans                                           11,923
Resources Available for Approvals                           48,341
Foreign Currency ($ 000)
Total Lines of Credit                                      379,350
Less:
Total Loans Disbursed                                      227,050
Resources Available for Disbursements                       152,300
Less:
Undisbursed Commitments                                     48, 930
Resources Available for Commitments                         103,370
Less:
Uncommitted Loans                                           40,370
Resources Available for Approvals                           63 000



- 42 -
Annex 9
EGYPT
SMI PROJECT
DIB: Projected Income Statements, 1984-1987
(LE '000)
For Years Ending June 30                 1984       1985       1986       1987
INCOME
Interest on local loans            24,582      28,830     32,954     38,521
Interest on foreign Loans          21,213     26,407      35;246     42,008
Other Income                      4,482       5,020      5,423      5,745
Total Income                     50,277      60,257     73,623     86,274
EXPENSES
Interest Paid to local banks        9,160      10,496     12,551     14,744
Interest paid on foreign loans     14,926      18,922     26,162     31,476
other expenses                         303        318        334        350
Administrative Expenditure           3,794      4,523      5,398      6,448
Admin. Provisions                      436        451        466        483
Provisions for Loan losses           8,957      9,631     10,343     11,014
Total Expenditure                  37,572      44,342     55,255     64,515
Profit before Taxes                     12,705     15,915     18,368     21,757
Taxes                                8,705      9,915     11,368     13,757
Net Profit                               4.000      6,000      7,000      8,000



- 43 -
EGYPT                          Annex 10
SMI PROJECT
DIB: Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1983/84-1986/87
INFLOW                               83/84       84/85        85/86       86/87
Profit before Tax.                  12,705      15,915       18,367       21,757
Provisions                           9,387      10,082       10,809       11,497
Depreciation                           150         150          150          150
Foreign Borrowings                  58,247      72,675       85,169       92,813
Collections
Foreign Currency Loans              24,381      26,630       33,972       47,386
Local Carrency Loans                25,372      29,913      38,558        45,211
Borrowing from CBE                       -       5,548        1,557        3,299
Borrowing from Local Banks          19,575      20,000      20,000        20,000
Increase in deposits                4,268        4,392       4,622         5,073
Increase in other Cr. Balances       1,113       1,169        1,227        1,288
Increase in Capital                  5,000        -           5,000        5,000
Total inflow              160,200     186,474     219,431       253,474
OUTFLOW
Disbursements
Foreign Loans                       58,247      72,675       85,169       92,813
Local Loans                         39,888      56,750      65,691        72,645
Increase in short term
loan balances                      9,810      11,773      14,127        16,952
Repayment of foreign
currency debt                     24,381      26,630      33,972        47,386
Repayment to CBE                    12,829           -            -            -
Increase in deposit                    312         327          344          361
Equity Participations & Bonds        2,818       3,694        3,300        3,350
Increase in fixed assets               210         210          210          210
Taxes                                8,705       9,915       11,368       13,757
Distribution of Profits              3,000       4,500        5,250        6,000
160,200     186,474     219,431       253,474



- 44 -
Annex II
EGYPT
SMI PROJECT
DIE: Projected Balance Sheets, 1984-1987
(LE '000)
As of June 30                            1984        1985       1986        1987
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Banks                          10,416      10,743     11,087     11,448
Other                                    3,626       3,626      3,626       3,626
Total Current Assets                    14,042      14,369     14,713     15,074
Portfolio
Outstanding loans 1/                   374,364    459,019    551,477    641,29D
Investments                              6,779     10,273      13,273     16,273
Provisions                             (32,454)   (42,391)   (53,040)   (64,360)
Net Portfolio                          348,68     426,901    511,710    593,203
Government Bonds                           387         587        887      1,237
Net Fixed Assets                            79         139        199        259
Total Assets                           363,198    441,997    527,509    609,773
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Deposits                                 4,437       4,658      4,891       5,136
Other                                    9,664      10,124      9,148       7,297
Total Current Liabilities               14,101      14,782     14,039     12,433
Long Term Debt
Borrowers Deposits                      24,224      28,395     32,784     37,612
Central Bank of Egypt                   27,813     33,360      34,917     38,216
Other Banks                             77,500      97,500    117,500    137,500
Foreign Currency Debt                  166,197    212,242    263,439    308,866
Total Long Term Debt                   295,734    371,497    448,640    522,194
Administrative Provisions                1,457       1,602      1,762       1,939
Taxes & Dividends Payable               11,705      14,415     16,618     19,757
EQUITY
Capital                                 35,000      35,000     40,000     45,000
Reserves                                 3,200       4,700      6,450       8,450
Total Equitz                            38,200      39,700     46,450     53,450
Liabilities and Equity                 363,197    441,996    527,509    609,773
1/ Including short term working capital loans.



- 45 -
Anne x  12
hdmical MAistme piagam for SHC - IDtailed Oet EFtt.es
3ERM     ODK   J                   1985 1C9D86                                               198 7                     TOTAL
____________________  .   US$  ir-  um ust    LI        .Is      us      IE        WI!E   133         LE
A. F0ZNS1N 0    1'31E
Fare Nip Mvir                       90,000                                                                              90,CSO
L  Cliro thit
Haqr, Extesion Service  12               1I,000        12             10,000       12             10,000       36             30,000
bEmnion Officers           48             16,000       72             24,000      96             32,0DO       216             72,000
9qppst Staff               36              9,000       36              9,000      36              9,000       W8              27,000
Drivers (8)                               16,000                      16,000                      16,000                      48,000
Vehicles                         30,000                                                 60,000                      90,000
Ainistrative Dpeae                         6.00                        6,000                       6,0100                    L1800
Sub,total:               120,000   57,000                       65,000           60,000   75,000             18,00   195,000
2. Alexankia Wtit
Chief, Nationa1 Expect     12              8,00D       12              8,00D      12              8,000        36             24,000
Beteion Officers           24              8,000       36             12,000      36              12,000      96              32,00
Szppst Staff               24              6.000       24              6,000      24              6,000        72             1,0o0
Drivers (2)                                4,000                       4,000                      4,000                       12,00
Vehicles                         15,00D                                                 15,000                      30.0DO
Arinistreive Dlpeam                        6,000                       6,000                       6,000                      18,00
Sub-total:                 15,000   32.000                      36,000            15,000   36,000              30.000  104.,000
3. lm.ilia Wlt
Chief. tGwil Expert        12              8,00D       12              8,000      12              8,00D       36             24,000
Extension Officers         24              8,000       24              S,000      24              a,c0a       72             24,000
Sqppt Staff iwL Driver                     3,00D                       5,000                      5,000                       13,000
Vehicles                                                     15000                                                  15,000
Mministrative EKPDqe                       3,000                       6,000                      6,00D0                      1500
Sib-coatl:                          22.000             15,000   27,000                     27,000             15,0      76,000
4. Matea Uet
Chief, National Expet      12                          12              8,00D      12              8,000       24              16,00D
Fetension Offic                                        24              8,000      24              8,000       48              16,000
Sqprt Staff iwcL Driver                                                5,00D                      5,000                       10,000
Vehicles                                                     15,0D                                                  15,000
A ministrtsive ExPenSe                                                 6,000                      6,000                       12,000
9ib-ctal                                               15,00D   27,000                      27,00O             15,00    54.000
C0W     IVAL                 135.000  111,000             30,000  155.000            75.000  165.000             6        431,.O0
B. ?cUWDT & ERC=  DENEIE       fr SWCES
Fbm iWp Advir                       22,500                      90.000                                                 112,500
Ibuqers                        12             10,00        12             10,000      12             1O,00o       36             30,000
L    Ibat  & Tainiz8 unit
1kd, National Expect       12              8,000       12              8,000       12             8,000        36             24,000
E6m=ial iet. Sp-iahist  12                 4,000       12              4,00D      12              4,000       36              12,000
lhiketirg M4t. Specialst  12               4,000       12              4,000       12             4,000        36             12,000
rad'1 Err. (Prod'nvW.t.)  12              4,000        12              4,00D      12              4,000       36              12,0C0
ra inng Officer            12              4,000       12              4,000       12             4,000        36             12,000
Mainir Assistnt            12              3,000       12              3,0r(0     12              3,000       36               9,000
Suppaot Staff              36              9,000       36              9,000      36              9,000       1o8             27,000
Driver (1)                                 2,000                       2,000                      2,000                        6,00O
Vehicle                         15000                                                                               15w,0
inistative 1e3ue                           6,000                       6,0D0                       6,000                      18,000
SJb-Ibtal                  37,500   54,0w0             90,000   54,00D                      54.000            127,500  162,000
2. Poject Drelqanr & lafoetion Wit
Hkm, Natiomi Expet         12              8,0w        12               ,0o0       12             8,C00        36             24,000
Eosemit                    12              4,000       12              4,00D       12             4,000        36             12,0O0
bfo IaUblation Spwcialist 12               4,000       12              4,000      12              4,000        36             12,000
lseareh Maistat            12              4,000       12              4,000       12             4,000        36             12.000
Sjb-Tdal                            20.000                      20,000                      20,000                      60.=00
CDW IW  T1UW                  37,500    AM                90,o0    74,000                       4000             127.500  222,000



- 46 -
Annex   1 2
fte 2 Of Z
B U D G E T
FROGRDIHWMIW                      1 985                      1 966                        1 987                    TOTAL
VA_ iE    ux               QiV  Us s L l  5           U'I    US       15         iE      K         LE
C. S9UTRiC EWIS
Foeim Adviow                       45000                                                                            45.OW
Oide, N?tiorml f,pett         12             8,000       12             8,000      12              8.000      36             24.ODO
P mofesiml Staf               24             B.O0D       24             8.000      24              8,000       72            24,000
Suyoxt Staff                 24              6,000       24             6,000      24              6.00        72            18,00
Driwr (1)                                    2,000                      2,000                      2,OW0                      6,000
lhicle                             15,000                                                                           15.000
MA'ini'tative   p_mm                         6,00D 0oo                               6,000         60D10
NhIT    L                       6J       3060   OOD000                            30,                           60.00 D    0WA
D. STrF nImlC
Fellmiwdiis                        80,00D                     80,000                    80,000.                    240,000
Sttjy Twrs                         20,000                     20,000                    20,000                      606000
CKm M MtJ:                     lDO,IOO                     M%OMe                      W%D4a                     3l00600
E S3L AU_Nt
9iott-te, cunsgtart                6,00W   30,000             68,000   30,00D            68400    30,0W            206,000    3,6000
WftowT IU:                      68,0DD   30.000            68,000   30.000            68.00    30WO             2W4.WD       ODO
F. 1MuM AIDXIMMN
Auinaative offficer                          8,0O                       s000                       8,a0                      24,00
Pmction & RIbqiity Q(ts                     10,000                     10.000                     106000                     30,000
Advnis=ti'e gjppoLt Cbts                    1O,000                     10,00                      lO,o                       30,000
Tra1 Expsus                        5,000    5,000             5,00     5,000            5.00      5,000           u1,0o   15.000
Fquipimt                           50o,w                      50,000                    50,000                     150,00
eMicle Mbinteace                             8,000                       ,000                    15,000                      35,000
Bhildi.gs & Rentals                         20,000                     30,0W                      30.0M a80,00
awott Staff for Foriga Mit ma      15,000                      5,O0                      15,000                     45,000
Hisellmim  PrNogrm Suppot          10,0WD                     10,000                     10,0W                      30,000
lecture Fees & Sevices, SHE                 15,000                     20,000                    20.000                      5,aOo
afifztg  ateriaIz  si                      10,000                      5,OOD                     15.000                     40,00
Miwellan.us for SIC Tr"ainiu                 3,000                      3,O00                      3,000                      %,000
(DK ON)  MrUA1                  8aaOO       8M000          80,      l300              80W0_   116,W0_           24L000  318,000
ITOMOF D E.                          480,50D  334,OW0            368aoo  402.000           323,000  41500            L171.500 
l1al curWey for existizg local
staf fs of Decr la IrOO1,000                                          1000                        00,000                    300,000
Eatiated support ccots
to the csultitg fims I/            57,295                     43,882                    38,518                     139,6S5
TOTAL  PROJECT  COST:                 537,795  434,000           411.882  502.000          361,518  515.ODO          1,11195 1.45LODO
Pnnisims for clti,eies
1996                                                      57,664   40, 160                                      57,6"    40,160
1987                                                                                 99,778   85,696            99,778   85,6%
GRAND    TOTAL:                       537.7%   43,00             "9.546  5U,160            461.2ff  G66              1.468,6371,576856
I/ ^Qulated at 13Z of toul prect cost,.    t for punise.s of vitles dhch is caculated at 7.                         S9we  EXDC



- 47 -
Anmfex 13
ErM
SMI ERo.R=
lbdmical Assistance Prpom for SMW
Staffing Plan for SSEID
Hse II              Biase III
1982 1983  I98      15B5  1986  1MB-7
1RICAL EMENSID 9N  CE
L  aixo Unit
a  Planned number of tesns                      3    4      4        6    7      8
b. Ogized umrber of teaus                      2    3      3
c. Still to be ozganLzed
within the project phase II                              1
2. Aleandria Ibit
a. Plazed number of teams                       -    2      2        3    3      3
b. Oanised uxmber of tems                       -    1      1
c. Still to be oganimzed
within the project phase II                 -    -      1
3. Ismailia Uhit
Plammed number of teas                      -    -      -        I    1      1
4. lanta Uhit
Plam-ed nudber of tea                       -    -      -        -    1      1
-MYENI T & EIRnOT DBEEIL0RfIT SRICE
1 Management Services & Training Unit
a. PIanned nudber of managmit specialists       -    6      6       10   10    10
b. Auailable itaber of nurgant specialists    -    2        4
c. Still to be recruited
within the project phase II                 -    -      2
2. Project Develqpunet & Infolmation Uhit
Planned number of professional staff        -    -      -        4    4      4
SUBNRACrQ SEWICE
a. Planned number of professional staff         -    3      3        3    3      3
b. Available umber of professional staff
c. Still to be recruited
within the project phase II                 -    -      3



- 48 -
Annex 14
EGYPT
SMI PROJECT
Pro'ected Disbursement Schedule
(in US$ millions)
Year       Quarter                  Amount            Cumulative
1984      July-December                0.4                0.4
1985      January-June                 -                  0.4
July-December                6.8               7.2
1986      January-June                13.6               20.8
July-December              20.4               41.2
1987      January-June                23.8               65.0
July-December              25.5               90.5
1988      January-June                22.1              112.6
July-December               17.1             129.7
1989      January-June                15.0              144.7
July-December               10.6             155.3
1990      January-June                 6.8              162.1
July-December                7.9             170.0



- 49 -
Annex 15
EGYPT
SMI PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Arailable in the Project File
A-1   Arab Republic of Egypt. Issues of Trade Strategy and Investment
Planning, World Bank Report No. 4136-ECT, January 1983.
B-1  Cbnsultant's Report on Present and Pbtential Role of EIDDC.
C-1   Detailed Operational and Financial Projections of DIB.
D-1  Miscellaneous Working Papers for the SMI Project.






