Document of
~~~      r~On                     The World B~an~k
IFOIR OFF]C]AL USE ONLY
Report NoP-l956-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO SODEPALM
TO BE GUARANTEED BY THE
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
March 2, 1977
This documntm has a "#tXcad di($dbmfff@ mdi may be used by xe¢fipilens cmRy lim ae penlowmEm¢e of|
theair officad duties. Uts contentb nmy not otaerwise be isdcesed wlthout Wodzd mEo onthoirIntiton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 = CFAF 245
CFAF 1 = US$0o004
CFAF 1 million = US$4,082
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)  =  2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg) = 2.2 lbs
1 metric ton    =  2,204.6 lbs
ABBREVIATIONS
ARSO     Autorite pour l'Amenagement de la Region du Sud-Ouest
(Southwest Regional Administration Authority)
BNDA     Banque Nationale pour le Developpement de l'Agriculture
(National Bank for Agricultural Development)
BSIE     Budget Special d'Investissement et d'Equipement
(Special Investment and Equipment Budget)
CAA      Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (an Ivorian public
institution in charge of the servicing and
amortization of Ivory Coast public debt)
CFAF     Communaute Financiere Africaine Franc (the common
currency of the monetary union)
CSSPPA   Caisse de Stabilization et de Soutien des Prix des
Productions Agricoles (Agricultural Price
Stabilization Agency)
FER      Fonds d'Extension et de Renouvellement pour le
Developpement de la Culture du Palmier a Huile
(an investment fund for the renovation and
development of oil palms)
IRHO     Institut de Recherches pour les Huiles et Oleagineux
(French Agricultural Oils Research Institute)
RMWA     World Bank Regional Mission, West Africa
SODEPALM Societe pour le Developpement et l'Exploitation du
Palmier a Huile (Ivory Coast Government-owned Company
specialized in oil palm and coconut development)
FISCAL YEAR
Borrower: October 1 to September 30
Guarantor: January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO SODEPALM TO BE GUARANTEED BY THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
IN THE IVORY COAST
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to SODEPALM with the guarantee of the Republic of the Ivory Coast for the
equivalent of US$20 million to help finance the establishment of 8,500 ha of
oil palm and 9,500 ha of coconut estate and outgrower plantations. The loan
would have a term of 20 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace, with interest
at 8.5 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The Report No. 296-IVC "Current Economic Situation and Prospects
of the Ivory Coast" was circulated to the Executive Directors in May 1974.
A basic economic mission visited the country in June-July 1975, and its
principal findings and conclusions are discussed below. Annex I provides
basic country data.
Past Performance
3.        Throughout the 1960's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew at a high
annual rate of about 8.3 percent; however, during 1971-75, economic growth
slowed to an average of 5.6 percent per annum partly because of the effects
of adverse climatic conditions in the early years of the period and the
impact of worldwide recession, and partly for structural reasons. In 1975,
per capita income reached US$500, one of the highest in Africa. The good
overall performance of the Ivorian economy over the last 15 years has resulted
from a combination of the following factors: (i) sizable agricultural poten-
tial and early identification by the Ivorian community of the best opportuni-
ties for developing this potential; (ii) liberal government policies vis-a-vis
private capital inflows as well as importation of foreign labor and managerial
talent; and (iii) generally adequate public finance performance and avail-
ability of external aid.
4.        Although the country has sizable mineral deposits which may become
commercially exploitable in the early 1980's, the contribution of the mining
sector to economic growth has so far been negligible. On the other hand,
favorable ecological conditions in the southern region have given Ivory Coast
a clear comparative advantage in the cultivation of tree crops (particularly
cocoa and coffee) for export, and in the exploitation of its timber resources.
From the early years of its independence, the efforts of the Government and
the agricultural community were concentrated on the agricultural and forestry
sector. Large investments were made in transport infrastructure to open up
new forestry and agricultural areas, and in agricultural research programs.
Price and other incentives were introduced to which a dynamic small-holder
1/   Substantially identical with President's Report No. P-1892-IVC for the
Ivory Coast Urban Development Project.
| Thu docunent hau a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their ofcil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriution.



sub-sector responded well. Government-owned large-scale plantations with
outgrower components were developed for oil and coconut palm. Rapid growth
has been achieved in the production of cotton, pineapple, palm and coconut
oil, cocoa and coffee, for the last two of which, Ivory Coast is now the
third largest producer in the world.
5.        Another important contributing factor to the country's economic
growth has been the Government's open-door policy towards foreign private
investment and foreign labor at all skill levels. The prevailing political
stability, combined with the free transferability of profits and capital,
created an aura of confidence abroad which provided access to foreign capital.
However, the necessary technical skills to assure the planned development were
lacking in the country, and the Ivorian community appears to have accepted and
welcomed the wide variety of foreign managerial and technical assistance which
rapid growth required. A member of the franc area and a strong supporter of
monetary and economic cooperation, the Ivory Coast has always been wilLing to
welcome new regional institutions; it joined the Economic Community of West
African States (ECOWAS), and has recently helped promote the CIMAO project,
which is the first regional industrial undertaking involving both French- and
English-speaking countries in West Africa. An important feature of this
cooperation with neighboring countries, which has been beneficial to aLl
parties concerned, is the large influx of unskilled labor from less well-
endowed Sahelian countries, particularly Upper Volta and Mali. In 1975, the
foreign population (mainly non-Ivorian Africans) was estimated at 2 million,
i.e. close to 30 percent of the country's total of 6.7 million inhabitants.
6.        The success of the Ivorian economy is further attributable to
generally sound Government policies regarding public finance and external
aid. The public sector generated savings which, after debt service, fi-
nanced about 50 percent of the public investment program in the 1960-70
period. At the same time, the country was able to mobilize considerable
financial assistance from abroad, so that by the end of 1975, total external
public debt stood at US$1.5 billion and is projected at US$2.0 billion at the
end of 1976.
Recent Development Problems
7.        The economic performance of the Ivory Coast in recent years has
been good. To maintain this momentum and help broaden the access to the
benefits derived from it, the Governmenit will need to continue to pursue
policies already initiated to diversify the economic base, improve income
distribution and increase the participation of Ivorian nationals in the
management of its economy. As regards diversification, current Government
policies are directed with some success to protecting the export-oriented
economy against fluctuations in world market prices, and to promoting more
balanced regional development. Agriculture remains the most important sector,
but the share of manufacturing in GDP has increased from 4 percent in 1960 to
12 percent in 1974. Within agriculture, the production of new crops such as
bananas, pineapples, rubber, cotton, coconut and palm oil has been developed,
resulting in a decline of the share of cocoa and coffee in agricultural



exports from 72 percent in 1960 to 44 percent in 1974. As part of a more
balanced regional development policy, large infrastructure investments are
under way in the Southwest in an effort to develop access to that poten-
tially rich region.
8.        Better income-earning opportunities are being provided for the
population in poor rural areas in the North following the identification
and cultivation of improved varieties of cotton, and the promotion of ox-
drawn methods of farming. Income distribution is being further improved by
increases in agricultural producer prices, implementation of wage policies
which favor the urban poor, and execution of regional investment programs.
As a result, income inequality has diminished in recent years, with the
poorest 40 percent of the population currently receiving about 20 percent of
total income.
9.        Progress in "ivorianization" of capital and labor remains limited.
While agriculture is almost entirely in Ivorian hands, foreign ownership is
still important in forestry, industry, and modern commerce. However, education
and training are given high priority in the allocation of Government resources;
the employment potential of the informal sector is increasingly recognized
and the Government is sponsoring a variety of programs designed to promote
the development of small-scale industrial and commercial enterprises.
10.       These new directions of Ivorian economic policies are, however,
being implemented at some cost. The development of new products, new sectors,
and new regions is more expensive with decreasing returns on investments. For
example, agricultural diversification is being extended to crops with lower
comparative advantages: forest reserves may be depleted in ten to fifteen
years unless costly reforestation programs are started; the best opportunities
for import substitution in industrial development are becoming exhausted;
heavy infrastructure and productive investments in the potentially rich but
sparsely populated Southwest yield initially low returns; large programs to
improve living conditions in the North and other poor rural areas involve
long gestation periods; and finally the direct and indirect costs of foreign
production factors are increasing. Thus terms of trade are deteriorating.
The terms and conditions of external public debt are also hardening with the
grant element of public foreign capital declining from 29 percent in 1969 to
16 percent in 1974.
Prospects
11.       In spite of these problems, medium- and long-term prospects
of the Ivorian economy remain favorable and an annual rate of growth of
about 6 percent is a feasible objective, provided the Government becomes
more selective in determining investment priorities and continues to
improve mobilization of domestic and external resources.
12.       The economy has considerable potential for further develop-
ment of traditional export crops. Moreover, after large initial invest-
ments have been made, output of new products and development of new regions



- 4 -
will start to yield substantial benefits, and can later be expanded at.
reasonable economic cost. The Government is planning to review the system
of protection and tax holidays which has encouraged some marginal import-
substitution industries, and there is scope for expansion of export-oriented
processing of local raw materials. Finally, many aspects of the country's
policies of income distribution (preference for the family-size farm, programs
to increase agricultural productivity, in the North, promotion of the informal
sector and of small-scale industrial and commercial enterprises) are fully
compatible with sustained economic growth.
13.       A new Five-Year Development Plan (1976-80) is under preparation.
The program provides for further increases in production in the developed
regions, agriculture developing in poor savannah areas, accelerating the
opening up of the Southwest, diversifying production in agriculture and
industry, implementing large iron-ore mining and paper pulp projects, and
improving the quantity and quality of services in rural and urban areas, etc.
Preliminary cost estimates indicate that implementation of the proposed
program would involve an unrealistic increase in the level of investment from
23 percent of GDP during 1971-75 to about 40 percent during 1976-80. This is
an ambitious target. The Government is presently adapting the plan to reflect
more realistically the expected level of domestic and external resources.
If investments were held to about 25 percent of GDP, a satisfactory annual
growth rate of about 6 percent in real terms would result. Assuming a pro-
portion of public investments equivalent to 60 percent of the total, this
would mean a public investment program of about $800 million a year in
current terms for the next five years.
14.       Even a scaled-down public investment program as proposed above
would still be difficult to finance. A prerequisite to success would be
an improvement in domestic savings. The savings performance of the public
sector has been affected in the last several years by higher producer prices
and increased expenditures on social programs. However, net public savings
after debt service, which financed only 35 percent of public investment during
1973-75, could again increase to about 40 percent, assuming an increase in the
tax burden from 19 to 20 percent of GDP, a slower rise in Government current
expenditures, and an improved savings ratio of public enterprises.
15.       The country has a high absorptive capacity, and the public sector
is able to mobilize a substantial inflow of foreign capital. External financ-
ing of public investment amounted to US$235 million in 1974 and US$352 million
in 1975. An annual average of US$450 million over the next five years is
considered realistic. Assuming that about 40 percent of future inflows of
foreign capital continue to be financed by Government aid agencies and by
bilateral and multilateral donors, the debt service ratio would rise from 10
percent in 1975 to the high but manageable level of 17 percent in the early
1980's.
16.       The balance of payments situation was affected by the increase in
oil prices and the recent recession of the world economy. The net oil import
bill increased from US$15 million (3 percent of commodity imports) in 1.972
to US$90 million (7.5 percent of commodity imports) in 1975.    However, the



- 5 -
economy reacted well to these circumstances, thereby demonstrating its
resilience. In 1974, higher export earnings more than offset increased
import outlays resulting in a balance of payments surplus of US$88 million.
A 1975 deficit of US$150 million was due primarily to deteriorating terms of
trade and low timber exports caused by a continuing slump in the European
construction industry; to help meet this deficit, the country made drawings
of US$13 million from the 1975 IMF Oil Facility, and US$33 million from the
IMF Compensatory Financing Scheme. However, favorable prices for coffee and
cocoa, together with an improved timber market, led to a rapid build-up of
gross reserves from US$18 million in September 1975 to US$136 million in
February 1976 falling again to US$70 million in July. Pressures on the
balance of payments remain, as the deficit on the services account will
continue to exceed the surplus on the trade account. To maintain a sound
balance of payments position, the country will need substantial external
capital inflows, which are expected to materialize, as well as continuing
careful management of its external accounts.
17.       Of the total external public debt outstanding at the end of
1975, 21 percent was provided by governments, 24 percent by international
organizations (of which 70 percent by the Bank Group), and 28 percent by
private banks and bond issues, while 27 percent came in the form of sup-
pliers' credits. The capital not supplied by international organizations
came mainly from four countries; France (33 percent), USA (21 percent),
Italy (8 percent), and Germany (4 percent). France and the European Com-
munities remain the principal source of development assistance in grant
form, accounting for about 6 percent of the flow of foreign assistance to
the public sector.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
18.       Since 1968 the Bank's lending to the Ivory Coast has expanded
rapidly and now includes twenty-four loans totaling US$308.3 million
(including US$14 million from the Third Window) and an IDA credit of
US$7.5 million. Eleven of these twenty-five operations have been for
agriculture, covering the development of cotton, cocoa, rubber, oil palm
and coconut plantations. There were five road projects. The remaining
nine loans were for education, telecommunications, the Abidjan sewerage
and drainage system, urban development, tourism development, small- and
medium-scale enterprises and a regional cement project. IFC's small
participation in the Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement Industriel
(US$204,000) was increased in 1974 by a 50 percent stock dividend. IFC's
Board recently approved a 10 percent equity investment, equivalent to
about US$880,000, in Etablissement R. Gonfreville (ERG), the largest
textile plant in the country. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank Group operations and notes on the execution of ongoing projects,
with particular reference to those which are encountering problems in
execution and giving rise to delays in disbursements.
19.       The main thrust of the Bank lending program will continue to be
in the agricultural sector with an emphasis on regional growth and income



- 6 -
distribution. A second rubber project in the Southwest and a rural develop-
ment project are currently being prepared. A follow-up project to thes Cotton
Areas Rural Development Project in the North is also under consideration.
20.       The Bank was closely associated, as executing agency, with the 1969
UNDP Transport Survey of the Ivory Coast, which has served as a basis for
determining future priorities among transport investments. Thus far the Bank
has financed five road projects totaling US$94.3 million. The First Project
was completed in December 1974 with final costs within appraised estimates.
The Second Project was satisfactorily completed in September 1975, after
an initial delay caused by alignment modification and subsequent poor work
organization. The Third and Fourth Highway Projects incurred substantial
cost overruns which the Government is covering, otherwise execution is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. The Fifth Highway Project will substantially complete
the primary road network of the country thus allowing a shift in emphasis for
Bank lending to secondary and feeder roads. A Feeder Road Project is under
preparation. A railway project has also been appraised that focuses on
the improvement of a priority section of the Abidjan-Ouagadougou rail line,
renewal of rolling stock, technical assistance and training. While the Bank
is expected to continue to play a major role in the transport sector, finan-
cing will increasingly be shared with other aid donors.
21.       The education system of the Ivory Coast has not provided the
country with an adequate supply of skilled manpower. The Bank is closely
associated with the Government's efforts to modernize the education system,
in particular at the secondary and vocational levels. Both the Bank's two
projects thus far have been directed to these ends. Preparation of a third
project is included in the second.
22.       The Abidjan sewerage and drainage project approved in 1975 will
cover the first phase of a ten-year Government program to improve sanita-
tion in Abidjan and a follow-up project is under consideration. A water
supply project for secondary centers is also being prepared. An urban develop-
ment project, primarily aiming to fill the Abidjan low-income housing and
transport needs, has recently been approved.
23.       In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and management
in the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Government is placing
high priority on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of this
policy the Bank extended a loan for the promotion of small-scale enter-
prises. This project emerged from a 1971 Bank study of private enterpise in
West Africa. The Bank Group also provided support to medium scale enterprises
through a local development finance company. Follow-up projects in both areas
are envisaged. In June 1976 the Bank extended a loan to the Ivory Coast in
support of the CIMAO project, which is sponsored jointly by the Governments of
Ghana, Ivory Coast, and Togo. CIMAO will utilize limestone deposits in Togo
for the production of clinker for the cement market of the three countries.



- 7 -
24.       Bank Group lending to the Ivory Coast, which has averaged about
US$40 million per year in the past eight years, is expected to increase
substantially over the next several years. The Bank Group's share of the
Ivory Coast's external debt which, at the end of 1975, stood at approximately
10 percent (including undisbursed), is likely to remain at about that level
in the next ten-year period. The Bank Group's share of total debt service
is at present 4.5 percent and is expected to go up to about 8.0 percent in
the early 1980's.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
25.       Agriculture and forestry account for about 90 percent of the
country's exports and 25 percent of its GDP. They are the mainspring of
the country's growth and will remain so for many years to come. Abundant
land, good labor supply and generally favorable world markets for its
products have assured rapid agricultural growth in the Ivorv Coast. About
70 percent of the population depends on agriculture and forestry. The per
capita income in the sector, in 1975, was US$150.   The estimated value of
agricultural production in 1974/75 was US$500 million, of which industrial
crops accounted for about US$278 million, food crops US$191 million and
livestock US$31 million.   From 1970 through 1974 annual exports averaged
US$90 million of which the three main commodities -- coffee (27 percent),
timber (26 percent) and cocoa (22 percent) -- accounted for about 75 percent.
26.       Overall development planning is in the hands of the Planning Mini-
stry, while the ministries of Agriculture and of Animal Production have
mainly administrative functions. They provide no agricultural extension
or research services. Project design and implementation is undertaken by
autonomous development agencies (SODE's) 1/, placed under the supervision of
the ministries. The most important among them are SATMACI (coffee anid cocoa),
SODEPALM (oil and coconut palm), SOCATCI (rubber), SODESUCRE (sugar), SODEFEL
(fruit and vegetables), SODERIZ (rice) and CIDT (cotton).
27.       The National Price Stabilization Fund (CSSPPA) carries out the
Government's price support policies. It pays producers of the major cash
crops a guaranteed minimum price, and sells the commodities through con-
tracted brokers on the world market. In the process the Stabilization Fund
absorbs profits and losses. In the recent years CSSPPA has accumulated
substantial surpluses which have been mainly used for investments in the
agricultural sector.
1/   Societes de Developpement.



- 8 -
28.       The National Agricultural Development Bank (BNDA), partly owned by
the Government, was created in 1968 and is the chief source of agricultural
credit. It has so far mainly operated through the SODE's, which handle credit
distribution and recovery. Interest rates to final borrowers vary between
7.5 and 10 percent and credit recovery is good. More recently, BNDA has
established branch offices in rural areas with the purpose of dealing more
directly with farmers and farmers' cooperatives. BNDA's resources stem
mainly from its own equity, rediscount facilities with the central bank of
the West African States (BCEAO), and multi- and bi-lateral lenders.
29.       The Fonds d'Extension et de Renouvellement (FER) was set up in con-
junction with the oil palm development program at the request of the European
Development Fund (FED). Its initial objective was to finance modern housing
for oil palm estate workers and to assist in financing the development of
outgrowers' oil palm production. Its main source of revenue consists of
transfers from the production of SODEPALM's oil palm estates as a form of
repayment of a FED grant to Government. FER will continue to play an impor-
tant role in the financing of future outgrowers' plantations.
30.       Two autonomous regional organizations, the "Autorite pour l'Amenage-
ment de la Vallee du Bandama" (AVB) and the "Autorite pour l'Amenagement de
la Region du Sud-Ouest" (ARSO), have been created to resettle farmers displaced
by the Kossou Lake and to develop the Southwest respectively. Both agencies
are expected to have an important impact on development planning in their
respective regions.
31.       Research on individual crops is carried out by specialized insti-
tutes under Government supervision. The institutes dealing with coffee and
cocoa (IFCC), oil crops (IRHO) and cotton (IRCT) have achieved excellent
results, in close coordination with the corresponding SODE's.
32.       The recent growth in numbers of farmers' cooperatives has been
impressive. Their organization and development is the responsibility of
CENAPEC, which was established in 1968 as an autonomous agency under the
supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture. Although this task is difficult
in a country without a tradition of this type of organization, farmers' coope-
ratives grew from 100 in 1970 to 300 in 1971 and to 1,600 in 1973.
33.       The main elements of the Government's policy in the sector have
been the creation of an effective organizational structure and the mainte-
nance of attractive producer prices and relatively low wages for hirecl labor
in agriculture. To stimulate the agricultural sector, the Government almost
doubled the share of agriculture in public sector investment from 19% in
1960-66 to 36% in 1967-70. Ivorian farmers have responded well to price and
other incentives. Between 1965 and 1975 producers were paid on the average 50
percent of f.o.b. export earnings of coffee and cocoa. This provided a good
income to the many families involved, as demonstrated by the large ancd growing
numbers of small coffee and cocoa farms. The results of the first agricultural
census (1975) registered 225,000 plots in the South growing 920,000 ha of cocoa



- 9 -
and 350,000 plots growing 1,235,000 ha of coffee. Recent experience in the
rice subsector confirms that farmers are highly responsive to prices. Hard-
working manpower from neighboring countries, receiving relatively low wages
supplemented by remuneration in kind, has helped to stimulate agricultural
activities.
34.       Until recently the Government has concentrated its efforts to improve
agricultural productivity on export crops. But growing urban centers and
the increasing demand for food, has drawn the Government's attention more
towards integrated regional development. New programs have been designed
to include food crops in the same areas where cash crops are developed. A
case in point is the cotton program in the savannah region, intermingled with
food crops, which started in 1974 with Bank assistance (Loan 1077-IVC). Over
the past few years the importation of foodstuffs per rural inhabitant has
declined from 200 kg to 115 kg, indicating that these measures are proving
effective. This approach is also expected to help alleviate rural poverty and
regional income disparities, thereby slowing the urban drift. But there are
limits to what can reasonably be done to develop food crops for which the
Ivory Coast has no clear comparative advantage. This was clearly demonstrated
when increased producer prices resulted in over-production of rice. Thus the
emphasis will remain for some time to come on export crops.
35.       Forestry has greatly contributed to the Ivory Coast's economic devel-
opment. Production of logs, which are still mainly exported in unprocessed
form, increased over fivefold between 1960 and 1973. The sector has played
an important role as an earner of foreign currency required to develop other
sectors. In the early 1970's the sector accounted for about 35 percent of
total export earnings. Recently policy measures have been taken to protect
better-known species that are becoming depleted by differentiating taxation
and by promoting lesser-known secondary species which are still available
in large quantities. Efforts have also been made to stimulate local process-
ing by discouraging exportation of unprocessed wood. The Ivory Coast is,
nevertheless, rapidly running out of the well-known species and costly refo-
restation may be required to provide a basis for a viable wood processing
industry in the long run.
36.       The prospects for continued substantial growth of the agricultural
sector during the next five to ten years are good. It should be possible to
maintain growth while emphasizing the importance of improving farming systems
and standards of living in the Savannah region. Development of the forest
region should continue to be geared to the major export crops -- coffee,
cocoa, oil and coconut palm and rubber -- for which the ecological conditions
are excellent. The Southwest region offers vast potential provided that more
effective land use planning is carried out.
37.       The Bank will continue to support those agricultural activities which
offer the most comprehensive way of meeting the Ivory Coast's broader sectoral
and regional goals. There are limits to the support that can be given to
traditional export crops like cocoa, for which the world demand is inelastic,
and for coffee due to the quota restrictions. Further support for rubber in
the Southwest will be contingent upon the satisfactory resolution of the early



- 10 -
institutional problems. The oil palm and coconut sector affords by far
the best vehicle for growth in the Southwest, although the overall rat:e
of expansion of plantings will be slower than that achieved east of the
Sassandra River in the sixties and early seventies. The outgrower program
will provide a sound basis for migration to the area. In the medium t:erm
the Bank will be giving more emphasis to supporting rural development pro-
grams in the Savannah region.
The Oil Palm and Coconut Sub-Sector
38.       In the early 1960's, the Government initiated an oil palm develop-
ment program concentrated in the Southeast of the country. The SODEPALM
Group was created in 1963 to carry it out. The program was supported by the
European Development Fund (FED), the European Investment Bank (BEI), the
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and the Bank (Loans 611,
612, 613, 759, 760 and 1036-IVC). The country presently has about 81,000 ha
of oil palm plantations of which about 71,000 ha have been planted uncler the
program. Annual production of palm oil increased from 52,000 tons in 1969
to 162,000 tons in 1975; exports grew from 2,000 tons to 108,200 tons in the
same period. By 1985 the Ivory Coast is expected to produce about 325,000
tons of palm oil per year, exporting about two-thirds which would account
for about 4 percent of total world trade in palm oil.
39.       The implementation of past projects has been satisfactory and all
original physical targets have been achieved or exceeded. Planting programs
under these projects are expected to be completed as scheduled in 1977; the
two oil mills, financed under the first and second projects, were commissioned
in 1971 and 1972 and are operating satisfactorily. Yield projections have
generally been exceeded and, despite cost overruns due to inflation and some
unforeseen social investment, the expected rates of return are higher than
anticipated at appraisal. The quality of SODEPALM's management has been an
important factor in the success of these projects.
40.       Another factor which contributed to the projects' success was the
Government's policy, for both its oil palm and coconut programs, of using
an effective combination of industrial estates and outgrower developments.
The industrial estates were set up first and provided the outgrowers with the
necessary infrastructure and services essential for efficient production.
Under this concept, nine development districts have been established east of
the Sassandra River, each containing a cluster of estate plantings accounting
for about 60 percent of the total plantings with outgrowers accounting for the
balance. The Government plans ultimately to achieve the same mix with its
development scheme in the Southwest region.
41.       The coconut development program, entrusted to SODEPALM, has now
reached a total of about 18,000 ha of palm plantations, consisting of about
60 percent of industrial blocks and the rest village plantings. Plant:ations
are situated along the coastal belt east of the Sassandra River. The program



was launched in 1966 but about half the area was planted during the last five
years and is not yet producing. The program has received financial assistance
from the same external sources as the oil palm program and is progressing sat-
isfactorily. SODEPALM's ongoing program east of the Sassandra River will sub-
stantially exhaust the coconut potential of the region. Production began on a
small scale in 1974 and is expected to reach 130,000 tons of copra by 1985, a
negligible fraction of world coconut trade.
42.       When SODEPALM's first plantings were nearing maturity and substan-
tial processing investments were required, the Government decided on a change
in the corporate structure through the introduction of private investors.
Thus, in 1969, two new companies, Palmindustrie, responsible for the indus-
trial complex, and Palmivoire, a management company, both of which had foreign
and Ivorian interests, were created. The three companies were linked by a
contract of "Association de participation" and became known as the SODEPALM
Group.
43.       To strengthen its control over the sector the Government decided,
in 1974, to make SODEPALM again responsible for all the group's operations.
Palmivoire has been dissolved and private shares bought out by the Govern-
ment on negotiated terms which were considered satisfactory by the various
official co-lenders involved in SODEPALM's operations. Private interests in
Palmindustrie were also bought out but the company will continue owning in-
dustrial and processing facilities which will be rented to SODEPALM.
44.       In parallel with the corporate changes, the Government decided to
transfer SODEPALM's marketing responsibilities to the stabilization fund
(CSSPPA). Under the new arrangement all revenues accruing to CSSPPA from the
oil palm and coconut sectors, will be earmarked for the operating and expan-
sion of these subsectors, including any ancillary activities that SODEPALM may
carry out. The CSSPPA will maintain a special account which will be credited
with the proceeds from the oil palm and coconut sector. The price paid by
CSSPPA for SODEPALM's produce will be established in advance of a crop year
and will cover the operating costs including current replacement of assets of
less than five years' life, and the debt service which would be guaranteed by
the Government, regardless of production and world market prices. These
latter amounts would be paid by CSSPPA to SODEPALM twice per year so as to
allow SODEPALM to meet its annual debt service obligation. The price will
also include a retroactively adjustable quality incentive component. Replace-
ment of assets of more than five years' life will be credited by CSSPPA to an
amortization account held by the CAA and placed at the disposal of SODEPALM/
Palmindustrie upon decisions taken by their respective boards and the respon-
sible Ministries that such replacements are required (Section 3.04 of the
Guarantee Agreement). The prices for palm oil and coconut produce fixed for
the 1976/77 agricultural campaign are satisfactory to the Bank.
45.       These changes in the corporate structure and marketing arrange-
ments were exhaustively discussed with the various co-lenders, including the



- 12 -
Bank, over the past two years. The co-lenders' principle concern was to
ensure that the operational efficiency of SODEPALM, which had traditionally
reached a high standard, was not impaired. They also sought to ensure that
the finances of the enterprise would remain sound, thereby enabling SODEPALM
both to continue to meet its outstanding debt servicing obligations and con-
tinue to be considered a suitable borrower for future loans. Although the
Bank and the other co-lenders had initial reservations about the new arrange-
ments, they now feel that the new measures, as finalized by a recent Presi-
dential decree, will allow SODEPALM to meet the criteria of a viable borrower.
The necessary changes in the legal documents governing the Bank's existing
relationship with SODEPALM have been incorporated in a proposed "Agreement
Amending Previous Agreements" which was agreed upon in substance with the
other co-lenders.
46.       The prolonged discussions of these changes have held up the process-
ing of the proposed project by the Bank since it was deemed a prerequisite
to reach a substantial measure of agreement with the Government, SODEPALM and
the other co-lenders on these structural and marketing issues. But the Bank
has not failed to recognize, in the interim, the importance attached bv the
Government and SODEPALM to the development program in the Southwest. This
report has already stressed the significance of the Southwest in the context
of the Government's policy of regional development and the favorable ecological
conditions that prevail there for the growth of oil palm and coconut. One of
the Government's reasons for consolidating the structure of SODEPALM is that
it intends to give the SODE's a more comprehensive role in promoting resgional
development, encouraging, where appropriate, the diversification of thieir
activities. Furthermore, the program in the Southwest, relying as it does
in large part on the encouragement of an outgrower component, is a good
vehicle for the type of pioneering development involved. For these reasons
the Bank has acquiesced in the desire of the Government and SODEPALM to move
ahead with the program in the Southwest from the time when, in late 1975, some
of SODEPALM's resources, both machinery and manpower, were available to
be diverted from their activities east of the Sassandra.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
The Project Area and Summary Description
47.       The Southwest region, where the proposed project would be located,
lies between the Sassandra River and the border with Liberia, with a north-
ern limit along the axis Guiglo/Assia. The region consists mostly of forest,
and conditions are suitable for perennial tree crops. The project would cover
the first three years of a four-year planting program begun in late 1975. It
would consist of the:



- 13 -
(a) preparation of about 18,500 ha for the creation of oil palm
and coconut estates;
(b) establishment of about 8,000 ha of oil palm and 7,500 ha of
coconut estates;
(c) provision of infrastructure for both estates, including feeder
roads, housing, social, medical and administrative buildings,
store sheds, vehicles and equipment;
(d) establishment of an outgrowers program covering about 2,000 ha
of coconut and 500 ha of oil palm plantations on land cleared by
the farmers;
(e) provision to farmers of loans, extension services and
infrastructure; and
(f) provision for a Project Directorate, including offices,
housing vehicles, equipment and operating funds.
The project would exclude the processing facilities that will be constructed
during the four-year program and are expected to be financed by the Government.
48.       The initial estate plantations would provide the necessary physical
and social infrastructure to facilitate the establishment of outgrowers
plantings. Estate planting targets would be flexible to allow a faster
expansion of the outgrower component if feasible. This would affect mainly
the coconut plantings under which outgrowers are expected to plant a minimum
of 2,000 ha but possibly as much as 3,000 ha during the project period.
In the long run the program is expected to be comparable with that in the
Southeast, where small farmers plantings represent about 40 percent of the
total.
Prolect Execution
49.       The project would be executed by SODEPALM.    The civil works
department would carry out the clearing and land preparation for the estate
plantations, since it owns the necessary equipment and has demonstrated its
effectiveness in this field. The Project Directorate, currently located in
Abidjan, would be established in the Southwest region as soon as required in
consultation with the Bank (Sections 3.06 and 4.01(c) of the Loan Agreement).
The incumbent Project Manager is qualified to hold this important post.
50.       SODEPALM's corporate structure and marketing changes are reflected
in a recently issued presidential decree. The Agreement Amending the Bank's
Previous Agreements with SODEPALM would require, inter alia, the Government
to implement the new arrangements (Section 2.02(d) of the Agreement Amending
Previous Agreements). Assurances to this effect would also be obtained for
the proposed new project (Section 2(m) of Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement).
Ratification by the Government, SODEPALM and Palmindustries of the Agreement



- 14 -
Amending Previous Agreements would be a condition of effectiveness of t:he
new loan agreement (Section 6.01(c) of the Loan Agreement).
51.       The project area is situated astride existing dirt roads    which, if
improved, would provide a convenient passageway for vehicles and equipment to
the project site. Assurances have been obtained from the Government that
funds would be made available to improve the access to the project sites
before June 1978 (Section 2.03(b) of the Guarantee Agreement).
52.       The project labor requirements would be relatively modest, reaching
a peak of about 1,600 field workers in the third year. The initial recruit-
ment of labor from within the area has exceeded expectations and about 500
workers were already employed there by early 1976. However, since the region
is thinly populated, and since the project would be competing with other plan-
tations in the region, it may not be possible to meet all labor requirements
locally. Field workers may, therefore, have to be attracted from neighboring
Sahelian countries where subsistence farmers have few opportunities for devel-
opment. The estates would, therefore, provide sufficiently good housing and
social facilities to attract these workers. Assurances have been obtained that
the Government would take appropriate measures to ensure the timely avaiilabil-
ity of an adequate number of field workers (Section 3.02(b) of the Guarantee
Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing
53.       Project costs during the three-year investment period are estimated
at US$36.2 million equivalent net of taxes (US$40.6 million including taxes).
The foreign exchange component would be US$25.3 million or 62 percent of total
costs. Cost estimates are based on January 1976 prices. Contingencies amount
to 22 percent of the total net project costs. It is proposed that a Bank loan
of US$20 million be made to SODEPALM for a term of 20 years, including a
four-and-a-half year grace period. The loan would finance 55 percent of net
project costs and would cover about 88 percent of the foreign exchange costs
incurred during the three year project period (the Government having financed
costs incurred during 1976). The Government intends to authorize the Banque
Nationale pour le Developpement de l'Agriculture (BNDA) to assist in financing
part of the project through a loan of US$2.0 million equivalent to SODEPALM.
The balance of project costs (US$18.6 million) would be financed by the
Government through the Special Budget for Investments and Equipment (BSIE).
Satisfactory asssurance regarding the BNDA loan to SODEPALM and Governrment
financing of the first project year would be conditions of effectiveness
(Section 6.01 (a) and (b) of the Loan Agreement).
54.       Assurances have been sought from the Government that CSSPPA would
make adequate provision to cover SODEPALM's operating expenses and debi:
service for the oil palm and coconut sector and for SODEPALM's ancillary
activities (Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement). These new financial
arrangements are reflected in the decree referred to in paras. 45 and 50
above. The decree's entering into full force and effect would be a condition
of effectiveness (Section 6.01(d) of the Loan Agreement). CSSPPA would also
make available to SODEPALM and Palmindustrie any funds left in the special



_ 15 -
account after operating expenses and debt service payments have been made,
to carry out ongoing and future investment programs for oil palm, coconut
and any auxiliary activities entrusted to SODEPALM and Palmindustrie by the
Government.
55.       As under the Third Oil Palm Project, outgrowers would receive
interest-free credits from SODEPALM. However, production prices would be
fixed so as to arrive at an effective cost of these loans that would be
appropriate and, in particular, would enable Government to earn an adequate
financial return on its contribution. On the basis of the price assumptions
used in the project cash flow, the return to Government funds from the pro-
posed investment in the outgrower program is estimated at about 18 percent.
Procurement
56.       All contracts of US$100,000 equivalent or more for the procurement
of vehicles and equipment (totaling about US$3.1 million) would be made
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Contracts for goods and services costing less than $100,000 equivalent may
be procured under local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank,
provided however that the aggregate of the cost of all goods and services so
procured shall not exceed US$ 1.0 million equivalent. Contracts for buildings
with a total value of US$5.2 million, involving several operations scattered
across the project area, are not large enough to attract foreign interest and
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and
in accordance with local procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Civil
works consisting of land clearing and estate feeder roads (totaling US$19.1
million), and land development of US$7.8 million would be carried out by
SODEPALM under force account and reimbursed against completion certificates.
The remaining project costs (US$5.4 million) would be mainly for staff, labor,
farmers' loans and operating expenses.
57.       The proposal that SODEPALM carry out land clearing by force account
stems from excessively high tenders received from international bidder in
1971 for the first SODEPALM project (loans 611, 612 and 613-IVC). Under the
second and third projects (loans 759, 760 and 1036-IVC), when force account
was recommended, SODEPALM cleared about 15,000 ha at about US$500 per ha, only
about half the cost offered by international bidders in 1971. For the pro-
posed project, SODEPALM anticipates that its real costs will be below those
offered in 1971. They are expected not to exceed the equivalent of US$830 for
oil palm and US$785 for coconut estates in constant 1976 prices. SODEPALM has
an inherent advantage compared with international bidders inasmuch as it has
specialized equipment available on location, clears land under other Government
mandates, and has extensive experience in this field. Furthermore, land
clearing for rubber estates managed by private enterprises is also done under
force account.
Disbursements
58.       The Bank loan would be disbursed over two years and cover 75%
of the cost for land clearing, including the construction of access roads



- 16 -
US$7.5 million). The loan would also cover 60 percent of labor and planting
materials for oil palm and coconut estates in years two and three (US$3.0
million); 65 percent of total expenditures or 100 percent of foreign exchange
costs of vehicles, buildings and related equipment of the oil palm and coconut
estates (US$3.5 million); 80 percent of costs of the outgrower program,
including loans in kind and in cash (US$1.1 million), and of the Project
Directorate (US$0.4 million); and US$4.5 million would be unallocated.
59.       The Government would finance costs incurred by SODEPALM in 1976,
about US$10 million, mainly for land clearing for the first plantation year.
However, the Government has asked that expenditures incurred on the project
prior to the signature of the Bank loan and after January 1, 1977 be financed
retroactively. Therefore, retroactive financing of up to US$500,000 for
expenditures incurred after January 1, 1977, covering costs for buildings,
equipment, vehicles, extension services and farmers credits would be included
in the project.
Marketing and Prices
60.       It is expected that 60 percent of the palm oil (about 20,000 tons),
all the palm kernels (about 7,500 tons), and the bulk of the copra and coco-
nut charcoal produced under the project, would be exported. Palm oil from
the project when project plantings reach full maturity, would represent less
than 1 percent of anticipated world trade in palm oil. Copra production
would represent about 1.6 percent of the expected world trade at that time.
Ivory Coast palm oil enjoys an excellent reputation for its low acid content
and is sold at a premium above world prices.
Economic Benefits and Justification
61.       Primary benefits from the project plantings would be the produc-
tion of palm oil and kernels, copra and coconut charcoal. Net annual for-
eign exchange earnings from the project are expected to reach about US$40.0
million by 1986.
62.       In addition, the project would create social and physical infra-
structure for the settlement of new farmers in the virtually undeveloped
Southwest region of the Ivory Coast. It would also create about 1,600 full-
time jobs for estate-laborers, and considerably increase the incomes of about
600 local farmers.
63.       In the economic analysis, output values are based on expected
world prices, labor cost at estimated efficiency wages, and non-labor costs
have been valued at market cost net of taxes (in 1975 terms). The resulting
economic rates of return are 17 percent for the whole project, 16.5 percent
for both the oil palm and coconut estates, representing about 70 percent of
total project costs, and 30 percent and 23 percent for the oil palm and
coconut outgrowers, respectively. All rates of return have low sensitivities
to changes in costs or benefits. The higher rates of return estimated for the
outgrowers are substantially the result of attributing the cost of certain



- 17 -
central infrastructure and services entirely to the estates. Efforts would be
made during project implementation to maximize the size of the outgrower
compon ents if outgrower achievements are satisfactory.
Risks
64.       The danger of the Kaincope disease, a lethal "yellowing wilt" that
attacks coconut varieties throughout West African producer countries and could
potentially spread into the project area, cannot be ignored. However, re-
searchers at IRHO, which would provide estates and outgrowers with oil palm
and coconut hybrid seeds, feel the disease resistance in hybrid varieties is
sufficient to minimize the risk, and would be far outweighed by the potential
project benefits.
65.       It is possible that the project would face a manpower constraint.
However, its labor requirements are modest and the Government has agreed to
take appropriate measures to ensure adequate availability of field workers.
If the Borrower would not be able to recruit enough workers the planting
program would have to be adjusted accordingly.
66.       Deforestation in the Southwest region could have a negative
ecological impact if not phased properly. The Government has, therefore,
agreed to phase developments so as to minimize ecological risks and to
submit to the Bank, within one year of loan signature, a land-use planning
scheme (Section 3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between SODEPALM and the Bank, the draft
Agreement Amending Previous Agreements between SODEPALM, Palmindustrie and
the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of the Ivory
Coast and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Articles III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of the
draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
68.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex IV. The following special conditions of effectiveness are included
in the Loan Agreement:
(a) that the Bank has received satisfactory assurances with
respect to the BNDA-SODEPALM Loan;
(b) that Government financing for the first project year had
been adequately provided by the Development Budget (Budget
Special d'Investissement et d'Equipement);
(c)  that Government, SODEPALM and Palmindustries have ratified
the Agreement Amending Previous Agreements and taken all
appropriate action required for the reorganization of the



- 18 -
SODEPALM group, i.e. dissolution of Palmivoire, purchase of
Palmindustrie's shares, signing of the Contract de bail
termination of Protocol d'accord and Mandat d'investissement:
et de gestion; and
(d) that the presidential decree fixing the new price and marketing
arrangements, has been published and is in full force and eifect.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
March 2, 1977



ANNEX I
TABLE IA                                               Fs.1. of 4 pases
IVORY COAST              SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SM[9T
LAND ARIA (THOU xm4....                             .....................
...............                         ~~~~~IVORY COAST                        REPERENCe COUNTRIES (1970)
TITAL        331.0                                           M4OST RECENT
ASRIC.       16t.9                         1960        1970    ESTIMATE            TUNISIA          MALAYSIA        CHINA,REP OF ~
SN# PER CAPITA (uBS)                         1700.30.0              50 .0                8.0           4  .0  ...490:;.0   ....
POPULATION AN( VITAL-STATISTICS
OPULATION  (MID.YR. MILLION)    ~~~3*9      5*A         6.7                  0.0         00.4         1A.S
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM~                           12. 0       16.0        20.0                 3 0 .0       32.0o      4 03. 0
PER SQ. :MM. AGRICULTURAL LAND              *.       32.0       40.0                  67.0       291.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE SINTH RATE C/THOU. AV)             46.0        46.1        40.6                 40.7         42.2         28.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)              26 4        23:3        20*616.                           12.9          6.0
INPANT MORTALITY RATE C/THOU)           138.:01.a      *.                            125.0,        A0.S.L.      10.0
LIFE COpECTANCY AT SIRT!4 CYRS)          359,        41.0       43.5                  51.6         56.7         60.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3 . Ia.b    3.1         3.1                  3 .0         2.61.0       2. 2
POPULATION G9RnWTH RATE (41 
TOTAL                                     2.4         3.*         0.3                  2.L,         2.6          3.2/a
URRAN                                    10.6/        8.71.!      9.91.a               3. 0 Lb      3 .0         A .0
JRBAN POPULATION CS OF TOTAL)              21.,81 /d   26.0        30i. 3               40.1 14      ab.8         61I. 0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                           02.7/b      02. 5      43 .1                 46.3 Ic      40i. 7/a     4 0 .0
15 TO 64 YEARS                           53   /.     5 Q 8        4. 500Q go.~                     52 14        57.0
6!YASAND OVER                        3614b0,     2.7       a2.9                   30.52        3.2 ilo.     3.
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                         0.9        0.8         0.9                  1. f         0.91.!       0.0
ECONDMIC DEPENDENCY RAIOI                    1./f,a0..Lk              .d                              1.61.!       12/.
FAH1LY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOu)                ..                      .112.2                       222.2/a      Q7Q A
.JSFR5 CS OF MARRIED WOMEN)                 ..         .            .12.0                           S.o7i-      00.0
EMPLOYMENT
a .~~~~~IRE(qUAD                         900            .0     2000c1300.0                       20:j          600/
TOTAL LABOR PORCE (T.4OUSANDI  1R00.0j/~~~~ 2600    20./                   300/        9008        40./
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (4)              56.0       8 2.0       ao.o7c               57.0T        43.0T
UNEMPLOlYED CS OF LABOR FORCE)                .                     3.o74.              12.0 o.I      6.0 /a.b     0.0
INCOME DTSTQISUTION
O O  PRVAT  INOMEREC'D RY.
.4IGHEST  St OF .IOUSEWOLDS              30. '          .. h                                       203
IlGHEST 200 OF HOUSEWOLDS                518/ R         .        50.0,                  ..         5.0
L~OWEST  20% OF HOJSEHOLDS                6.6T7h       .          9.0                   .           3.5
LOWEST   400  OF HOUSEHOLDS              16.514h       .         20.0                   ..         11.2
DJSTRIRUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
O OANEO RY TOP 100 OP OWNERS  ..    ..          ..               ~53.0/e
O OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS                                                           o .  .  . s/e
.4EALTH AND NUTRITION
9OPULATION PER PHYSICIAN     ~~25480.01._. 15320.0    t5760.01d             5950.0 o                  3170.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            2210.0.L.'l 2830.a14    1970,0                730.014.     os 100/.0L..  10230.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED                   ..     1150.0      1240.0                010.014,     270.01.!    2980.0 11
DER CAPITA SUPPLY OFP
CALORlIq CS OP REQUIREMENTS)             90. 0      1 08a.0     10S.0/d               94.0/h       93.0/a.d    It11.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                  52.0        60          56 .07-d             6 3. 01      4./s          680
-OF WHICH ANMAL AND PULSE                .          S0la         ..                 40./         20R0a.       31.0
DEATW RATE (/THOU) AGES 2.0                   ...                     .                    .S/c.i     5.5          3.0
EDUCATIONi
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMAqRYSCHOOL,                          460         76.         S10t                 9 4.0        890!         98.:0
ECONDARY SCHOOl                          2.          1.         5.01420.                         394.01       s 500
YEARS Of SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND0 LEVEL)                13    ~     13.0  13.0            1 3.0            13.0     0.L.!      12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
CS OP SECONDARY)                         13.0         7.0         6.01d               30.0          3.0/a       16.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (              ~         9.014     20.0          .                               SS.0
HOUSING
E;;;;NS PER ROO4 (URBAN)                     2 . 5 k.      .                              2 . IL       2.31.a       I.8.&-.
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (4)                             ..         .            .60 . Qto                      69 . 0/ae    51.0/b
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
CS OF ALL DOELLINGS)                      t . 0        ..k.                           2 4.QLe      43 .01±a     90. 0 it
RURAL DOELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY CS)                          .                       ..                             30.01/a      88.0.lb
CONSUMPTION
RADIO REC;EIVERS (PER THOU POP)              17.0          ..       75,0                  77.0        41.0        103.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)                3.0       10.0        I 1. 0 e             1 3.0        27 .0         3. 0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR 0ER CAP)               21.0        95.0       144.0                155.0        3S2.01        2.
NEWSPRINT (KGl/YR PER CAP)                    . .       0.2         0 .3                 0. 1         0.014'        1.:7
SEE NOTES AND..............E....N...T....N.....ON...REVER.......



ANNEX I
Page .2 of 4 pa,e
NOT ES
Sale.. otheotiee noted, data for 1960 refer to eny yea   beteece 1959 and 1961, for 1970 bet-ee   1968 and 1970 ond for Moot Recet Eetitret  betwee n
1973 cad 1919.
o DRo to t-aigratl- popoRatie gr-eth rtet Is highar than the rats of na-rliaea.
toThe Repohlio of China (Tatean.) has beee aeIete.d aa aa  botletina  -oo-ty beeo- of its high rtet of growth toopled eith en i.pr--en      of the
itan-e diatribati-na  ire soe..a ie the diner.ifiE-tion of peodo-tie and enpo-t, the doail.ant role of enports in i ta    --onit  d-vloya...t, the
high l1ne  of doneeift a        -igad the lee rate of shano-aploy,n-a doapite    roe I- enede.o
IVORY COAST:           1960    /a   19575-8;    /b Afei.o. popoletion only;     Li  1955-65,     Id  1965;    /n  15 - 59 yeore and 60 and 00c  -opt-
ai-ely;    /f  1964;    LI  Ratio of PoPolotion   nde- iS and hI enod --e in laho  for lb - 59 y-ar,      /h  Popola-
tiin;    /i  1963;   j/j Enolodiag a..siatoot   --ae, eidei-a and ...al.aton  nidoie;      lb   1956-57.
1970    I.  1965-70,    fb  Ratti of popolotion onder 15 and 61 sod ever to total labor forc,       It CGe-   -ot only, intlo.ding
eidei-e,     /d   1964-66.
RMOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    Ia  1970-75;    Lb  Ratio of popolatio  ondor 15 ned h5 sad ove   to labor forn  oge 15-59 nears     Ic
Age 15-59 peace;     /A  1971,    In  1972.
TUNISIA:               1910    fl   D.e to emigration pepo1sio   growth rate Is Io-    tbaa itera-te of ioor      --area,    /b  1956-hi,     c~ 1966,
Id  Ratio of pepolstion nader 15 and 65 ed ove    to tota1l.ibor fo-e      In  Cnoerlo  4.5 MiRMo    hetcaea in
private Road, e-clding O.R ailion beo-rc      in poblin o-e   hibp, and 2.1 itllion hent-re  of -11nlti-e land,
If  P--eonn     in gon.reoeeai aerIcoc only,   Ij  Con-r,e-t boepitoI -et1hllat,.eota only;    _Lh  1964i-~,,
7Ii hagitere-d only.
MAIAYSIA               19705   Ia  W-ti Mlaysle;      /b  Regiatered  pplinants for n-r;      /0  P-rec..o 1 in g-   -raen  -i-ce  naly,     /,I 1964-66;
Ie Piped aster inalde only.
CHINA, REP. OF:        1970.    Ia  Doe to tesg-atio- popolation growth rare Is higher than the rot of -atr      1 noea,       /h  1966,     I:  Ratio of
popol.ati. -de- 15 and 65 nod one    to mini iabvr force ;    Id  Conrm-et only,       In  Total, o-b- sn,1 rol.
610, Jnoose~y 25, 1977
DpECNrICORS DP SOCTA I, DETOATOROS
.-a  rAs- fthen Ian2)                                                               ?noplaioo per -necg parent - Popolotion di,ided by nomoe af proennoig
Total1  Tet1 -nf-n are     -mprtieig load area sad ialsadoieeo..                      male and femal   gradooitnr--, "tro-ndl or "vertifiel1 --ov, ond
Rant. - Moo t-ect ea          ofreR aginoleors   lare  asd tnP-r-rily oroilinry peraoncl onth troiclog - eopr...c..
perasnenely for e-oyn, psatorwa.  -krht h hitohe g-rde   noo  to IRe              Popnoto    per bapitol .bed - .Poyloti.. diridod by' -nb- of hoepito1 bed.
falen                                                                               avialtAphl           n   eiot generl o-d apeoilal-d hoopotol end
rehabilitation .nt-er; eaoldee tern-g bon-      008 -otaliebhete for
GNP per -Ptis (RiS$) - ERP per -apita eatI-os at toret       akht Prince              -otodil end pr--tie nave..
oeleolated by caeenrf            t chod a. Wend Bank Atlna (1973-75 hanis);           P'rcacn  cpl of eaeino (9z ol recr-eonvl-       opoe    fr.om nergy
1960  1970 and 1979 data.                                                        eqdaato.e odMpla                  vial     IA ovony per- capit   per day;
available eoppliea -onpriee dovat,c prodo-iv-, tap-te Im-oe apeti,
Paaainad vital astseteet                                                        sod ohooge   in ankenh  Mt enpliee   -tide onionol fend, -eds, qoatitico
.popolaioe (mid-yr. .Molia) - Ac of Jaly firct     if not available,                  nedin food pr-vving end 1-neo       -o dot-ibotoon; -eq-renote were
averge of two ead-y-a eathoatee, 1960, 1970 and 1975 dat.-                          netitmatd by FAG hoa.od on pybelolgiool needs fee tnal-l o-civity --r
sad health -enad-ring v-irontoeil tenpyaroiL--, od       -vifhi, age and
PIPa"  e   dkir. erenae a - Mid-year popolotiec per oq-r             bile-            ace di.tiebbttone of poypdoit-, ond al1vo-g 1D% for -nte ot honeehld
eter (1010 heotar_) of etat. -res.                                                 lana.
Pepoatia  deeity- pr avare on f ont.leand - Cenpoted ac shov  foe        PO-ait      opyo     petei (fae'P       dy    - Prtotei  -o'nt of   e
agi-eliora1 lan     ly,                                                             capita net eoplyo     fcdpedy; no.nppy'        of food on defIn   peda
above; reqonenmnte for nil    -toirbe  eniabloehed by U770SoD   en
Pital sratintloe                                                                      Rano..eoh Sar.one  provide for a cdniveo ooec      of 60 g-an   of atol1
Crode birth rtaeehoensad - Onenal live hlrth. per thenosd of mid-                     protieb  pee day, ond 20 grace of neial and p.m- protein, of oiihI10
yea  popelatien, t_y-yr     rthiihti averges ending in 1960 and 1970,               gram  ehoold be onial p-tniet; itho     tiond-rds or  l-owe  ihon ib.e of
sad five-yas- averge e.din, in 1975 for seet troeareothniet.                        75 gram  of total, P-tin aned 23 ge-m   of oseial p-oteic on ao --rgv
C_ode deach raearteon             esldah       peieea        fadys                     o    i  _el,erendbiy              th0inb  Third de-10 Fowl fr-y.
pptat_na  na-yar    itLoei    avrge     ndIngtin I1960and 1970, sad            Pe   oiTta prtein   oply ro aenlad ne              Poac      pply *f food
five-year s--ge ending in 1975 for -as     reetaate.                                deie     rma4    el    n  pde     ngoepedy
D~th,,t,.l   1~~R..1-4- AonaI dooiho per ihoo-.d in age greyp 1-I
1,fpeynrt      iai.(    Ao)     - 1dnn   deaths of infants nedee one poor              yao,toobl       i  in tibt  Age fe-p; -oggeoted -     ona t-di-toi   of mal-
0fAWjcSdiieed lveborth.                                                              atirinta.
LIfeaeevaoy at birth (           Ae) - -Arge a-coee of year  of lifo recod-
tgabith; eolyfn-yenr over..ges ending in 1960, 1970 and                        datn
1975 for developing  -entrios.                                                     Z3tcr         ea      Ee-piaysbo              Rnrolloti of all igeo 0
G.o..   ro. otie ralte - AverngM  -onoo of lIve deoghter    a nea   wl                 prcoaf      F  rmayenoL-agepoplto             eldn      flea:ne
Fear n he  toreaS rprodnoti- pertd if she pmeia         present age-            6-11 ynec Sot adjoeted fe different leagthe of pra.noy odic ion;
epanifin fatility eaton; enoolly fie-yeee    -ergas eadZng in 1960,                  fenotte cdii a1-versol ed-otono. e-1-nen            may canne  10ff
1910 sod 1.975 toe daoloptng oootiles                                                Zloe 0 O     papilen  -e below or above the of7ficial  chocl agn.
...olation erveth rae     -ino    - Coapeod on....l greth atee. of aId-            Adlontndcrevet roil0-MO0n..            nnbhool -fCooq,ted on ab.ov; s--d-
yea  poottie  fe  150-0,  96-TI and OIM-OS.                                     nopdotierqisoo             an    fa    er   o   rr    d pro-y inetro--
Po    g-ie  rwth loto )%) - orbc - Cospoted Ila greth rote of total              nioc; pr-idee gvne-l, vocationl      r toa-h-r troining ontnrotiee fo
popetloe; difforet dofiitiOMRO of erhan -ree ape      ffani -ogar-                  pepils of 12 in 17 yanro of age; voepondeno      -oo-e or gene.rall.y
bility of da ta amog oenir ie.,                                                      anoldod.
lirha  ePPlatinn (% of total) - Ratilo of orbo  to total pnpoattnl dif-              Yarc of e..h.n       prvdd(      ned   -enod levels) - Total yenr- of
fcrat deftitiene of arha    aren  may affect oepara bility of date                  enhoeltog;                          t eedo  lvl  voioel int-tnion ma be partially
among onoetthe .       -  hlen(T         er)erw,gg           1- ar)o                     -ongltegy eacloded.
A.. ty5r         ""tp(pran                                                           Onnat cI   ),-kgg.(56LY-.,  . .Ina ero,.lloet (% of -evodoy) - To...tto...l icotitotian i-elode
i/drtaed(5er d joe)              .p-rontoges of aid-yea    popolat...               teehni-1, indentrI.    or other prvgrame  hioh oper..ie indep.Rdetly e
4p-d -Y -t     - Rateo of popolattn ender 15 ned 65 and -vee   to .dprenso                         eodr      nittv
theno"aeel        thr ge65                                                         Adolt lit-r-yc rate (     - titerte adaltn (able to read ond -oM) on pre-
Pooveato d!pa-Ine ratio -'R,atn of popolatien nndr 15 and 65 and ner_etag                      of tta1 odlt popolation aged 15 y-r      ond veer.
to  h   ao    oc    oae      ro    f1-5yoe
Pamily e'lnen.iag-noptr      nnlaia         n) -   onltv      omber of
aena.pior. of bi,th-nontinel device  ndor anyneof asti.ne1 family                              roamovar    e(   Average esher of pocron    per roa  in Ononpied
planeing Prgogra  soan  inopapio.                                                    ceveiml        IafInge in  rboei areas; daelloge omelds aen-permanat
Fatly plannin   - osere (6o     arademn         Poroa.ntagan of marid                  stro..t-..s and eno-pind parts
woma ofahil-heringage(15-t yaraiwhensabirth-control dc-                Onniddaincoietped enter (5                    Oopied c-nv-tionl deon-
vnee. to all carried a.nne  in  ame age greop.                                       inge in -bhe  and n'i ar     An thet i-lod. ee etoide piped enter
f_nilitie  a peroniago of oi11 -,opied d-21l.ngM.
malsi   tn                                                                         A...es to .alintitnY (% of oi delin       )- C-onveti.oml dwelingo with
fea -ao  fo-n  Ihn    d) -   ..o.ooi-naly ontive pers. on, inoinding              aleetriniy in lirloig qorers- .5 pe-ont of total dwellegs in eeba
jiP f-.. -d(   =   peed hot -eIoding h-neeivs, toWdents, oto.                    aRd roalavoM
definitions in vermon  one_trie   are not -oqo-ble.                                MRal1 decIl%-n oaeted to el1-trionty()- Coeqpond ano ato.         far ror
a          ieor flteee,i-   - Agrmnlorllae   fea    t  frlg,                     wii Sony
lor.try   h-tngand fiehing  epr-otage of ttotl later f-n..
uma  Y.d( of  b.r  o,-)- Im-pqleyed are   -11ay defined as per.....          coneotoo-
oh. el and .1.g to taka a Job, not of a Job R          given day,              Rdi. r      oi5~erofr9l -oP5)-Adll typac of recivers f,- rada broad-
remined not of A Job, and eeeking eark for a epecified minas                        -nta tognera     PobMin partheened of pepnltino; eanledes ,a,.isaend
Perind net  n-ediog an   keeb   cay net he onparable betwee   000                    reeivere in nentrien end in ye-rs ,h.ne -giatratio      of radio aeta  n
trien doe in different dafincitOa   of onceqloyd and s-e     of data,               to effect; data for rent year    ma not he   -p..rable scene cantno-
e.g., empoyneRnt effien atottti.a, ..mpIa a-rY., c-sqesonryena                       trin abe1iabad licens.ing.
plepenet inerne.F.ROeaR2 ve                                                                       pr then POP) - Poese-ge    O-r cenqorb0 entr fore cetig
Tenem  dietribntien - P_ratage of Priente ton-      (both in eac  andveie.
hind) reneivd by rtoteROt 5%, ethoit 20%, poeret 20%, and poorest             .     igroiy)a)        ,qnP) - Annoal -nncioption ofinorl,ome-
50% MY heneehelda.   C                                     viii, pebliiiO%j~~~~~r-to te e oirtIty to kilo-attvhnor  pa,r napita; gen-
LO% of h-bald..                                                 -.11~~~~~~~~~~~ealy heod nonpeaio dt,  nhtdl   ne fer lse... in grid.
fliatibtine ef land enocrahie - Percentages of land    -.d by enlni-tae                Sot nioing far laprite ned asp-ri    ef electricity.
10  ndporRt 1% of land ewncrar.                                              Nesprroct (ke/y  ar --P) - Per -epita amal --anptient. kin lngap
estimatad fran domestic proda-t.o. pine at ipeeta ef     ewprint.
eno ,eec  -  epopaction  divided by nenber of pratictog 
p1q.Uoi   eq-1ii~ il.hd fromA a_adinl -nhol tci-oteraty leve.I



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
(AmountsindllonsdUMS dlhars)
Actual  ~ ~ ~  ~~D2f         e             1965--   1970 -   1975 -   1980 -    19 65       197,  0i
1265      71970     j                      o     L        1970 ~1975       1980      1985       -
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
3-~Year Average at 167   196g Pice       xhag aes           Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of ODY
Gross Domestic Product           1,10     148        ,        .,75      2,8"99  379         71      57       67        67      183     11        0.
Gains fom Term  of Trae (+)  80     10       -79       -102     -157     -301       .       .         .        .       -8.3     -14.2   -6.2
Gross Domestic Income       M     1-7M     1,7-7 ,7             2,5142  3,428     -91       4.7      6.3      6.=E7                  =~D C7
Import (incl. NFS)                 331      547      705         875      9414   1,149     10.6     5.2      6.0       4.0     -34.2    -37.7   -37.1
Exports    " (import csapaity)     350      574       72         85      0j4     1_1~4     l0. 4    4.8       4.5      5.2      JL        87     3-
Resource Gap                        19       27        20        -2       -+        15                                           2 .0     1.0    - 1.5
Consumption Expenditures           753    1,151     1,421      1,714    1,925   2,608       9.0     14.3      6.3      6.3      77.8    75.9     75.8
Investment    ' (inc. stocks)      196      310      432         580      656     806       9.6     6.9      8.7       4.2      20.2    23.1     25.8
Domestic Savings                   216      338       1452       558      616      820      9.4     6.0      6.4       5.9      22.3    24.1     24.2
National Savings                   169      255       340        424      469      653      8.6     5.9       6.6      6.9      17.5~    18.1    i8.4
MECHANDISE TRADE                           Annual Data at Current Prices                                                        As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                     61      111       315        637      750    1,292     1-2.7   23.4     18.9      11.5      23.9    27.1     30.14
Intermediate goods (,zc2fuels)    41       85      210         307      397      875     15.7    19.8     13.6      17.1      16.1    18.0     16.1
F'uels sand related materials     13       18       157        204      266      514      6.7    54.8     11.1      14.0       5.1     13.5    10.8
Consumer goods                   140      218       482        799    1,052    1,594      9.3    17.2     16.9       8.7      54.9     41.4    42.7
i~an agricultural productsi"     213      3142      743      1,253    1,414    1,945      9.9    16.8     13.7       2.5      74.5    59.8     57.8
Other agricultural products       17       26        45         91      120    '241       8.9    i1.6     21.7       5.7       5.9      3.6     4.9
Manufactured goods                40       100      358        500      710    1,587     20.0    29.0      1L4.6     7.3      14.0     28.8    29.0
All other goods                   16        29       97        153      204      663     12.7    27.3      16.0      6.o       5.6      7.8     8.3
Total Merch. Elxports (fob)              -79-7    1-2l3      17,99    2,WT     473       11.7    20.2     14.5       4.2     100o.0o  100.0   10-0.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                    Average 1967-69    100
Export Price Index      78f .9  10.9      184.2      239      267      352        5.7    12.2       7.8      5.8
Import Price Index              91.5     98.7    241         273      313     4414        1.5    19.2      9.0      7.2
Terms of Trade Index            86.2    105.3     76.3        88       86      79         4.1    -6.7      2.0      -1.8
Exports Volume Index            88.8   1114      167         204      225     313         5.      7.9      6.2       6.9
VADJE ADDED BY SECTOR             Annual Data at 1967-69 Prices and Exchange Rates            Average Annual Grovth Rates       As Percent of Total
Agriculture                     366      426       474        542      612     815        3.1     2.2      5.3       5.9     35.1    24.4     23.6
Industry and Mining             173      287       414        573      667     971       10.6     7.6     10.0       7.9     16.6    21.3    25.6
Service                         502      766     1   057    1,268    1)414   1,930       8.8      6.7      6.0       6.3     48.3    54.3     50.8
Total                         l7-      iT-T -    il~T             , 2759     37T1         7.3     5.6      6.7       6.7    £80T    100.0    1o0-0.
PUBLIC FI-NANCE                                                                                                                   As Percent of GDP
(Cen.tral3Government)
Current Receipts                213      297       377        444      515      697       6.9     4.9      6.4       6.2     20.3    19.14    20.0
Current Expenditures            155      231         78                373      476       8.3     5.9      4.0       5.0     14.8    15.8    114.5
Busdgetary Savings               59       6        70         106Z     142      221       26      12      1.         .         .       .        .
Other Public Sector              214      75        95        151      164      212      25.7     4.8     11.5       5.3      2.3     4.9      6.4
Pabl-ic Sector Investment        90      158      296         393      453     508      11.9     13.4      8.9      2.3       8.5    15.2     17.6
DETAIL ON                                IUS $ millions
CURREN4TEPEDTR       DETAILS                 Actual        Prelim,.  Eat.     P-oj.       PUBLIC SECTOR                         at end 1968 P and ER
As % Tota Curent Expend.)              195      17        l975        6~1930             INVESTMENT PROGRAM                       Plan, 1971-75
Education                              17.9    21.1       25.3     26.0    220                                                                   of total
other Social Services                  10.14   11.4       11.8     12.0    14.0         Agricultural development                  349               31
Agriculture                             14.6    5.2        3.6      35      4.0          Economic infrastructure                  561               50
Public Works                           13.0     10.3       6.5      6.5      5.0           - PO..e,r                       134              12
Other Economic Services                 3.5      7.14     10.2     10.0     10.0           - Industry                       69               6
Adminiistration and Defense            37.0     28.8      21.9     22.0     25.0           - Transport and Telecom.        221              20
Other                                  13.6     15.5      20.7     200       O2.0          - Urban Development             137              12
Total Current Expenditures            100.0   1 00.0    10-0.0    10-0.0  10 0. 0        Education and Culture                     101               9
Nealth and Social Develop.                 53               5
SELECTED INDICATORS                               1960-     1965-    1970-    1973-        Administration infrastructure             46                4
(Calculated from 3-Year averaged data)            1965      1970    1975     1978          studies and Research                      13 
Average ICOR                                                          rl       7                                                  1,123              100
Import Elasticity                                 0.8        1.4      0.9     0.9          FINANCING
lMrginal Domestic Savings Rate                    0.1i8     0.22      0.30    0.25             Public Sector Savings                557               49.6
Marginal National Savings Rate                    0.12       0.16     0.214   0.20             Program aid_counterpart
Foreign Project Aid                  566               50.4
I6tal                              1,123              100.0
LABOR FORCE ANSD                              Total Labor Force                                Value Added Per Worker li     - 69  Prices & Exo. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                In Millions           of Total         19 65 - 73        In U.S.Dollars      Percent ofAerige          19   -
D-         1973    :1965 :             Growth Rate         1965      1973        1965      1973       Growth Rate
Agriculture                   1,7 43      2,093    85.7      82.8          3.2            209        215        40.4       30.6          0.3
Industry                        1143       234      7.6       9.2          6.4          1,210      1,513       234.0      215.2         -1.0
Service                        ***27       201     6*-7       8.0          593,95                  4,3         7614.6    68 .8           2.6
Total                         2,013      2-,572   100.0     100.0          3.7            517        703       100.0      100.0          3.9
not applicable        - nil or negligible                 Coffee, cocoa, timber, palm oil, palm kernel, copra, pineapple.                    February 1977
not available        -  less than half the
smallest unit shown



O'  +.  .',' '  Or          '. J '|2 '  } C  H r -  Crre  Hr SD~rf; l' 
''IC ~  No n'j |  Co 9-C  aaC   .-|rz X  S,.       ** 
CII~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~f .X. r-O.-  as  a a  % -'i  a  'a  rrvrn-  Cr.  OJ  0
5~~                            o2  H N O  -D03>W0 Ft^H0H1 U 
!~~~~~~~                              OJO Sot I4rOSO | HB  5|E=ER 
NrrNain,  0i 05                       hr-   H'- t F O W n  \
ol              I                       n -a
hi  4  nt-  S  n .W   _  0U ^ inIn a  2ENuo
uin  WaC  ,  o   . | '  Nr 0. 1  W 15i n   ua   N  a n n   NI |n
-  '      '    I 
g~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 8o-Ot           va 2a     ronNp  E  / 1e  g 
a-.atrr--aroanaa  a  ~~~~~~~  ~
Ha         nar.tr*;iiibiYo* 
a: a etgr-a  u~  °2~  ' ' =     °     -    uogvv.
a  a a f s  l ;  h a   a   s vn  A  a   O I   V   ; 1   g F   ] [  S C a   C r 3 0   o R  0 0   .<  9 H



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN IVC
A.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of January 31, 1977)
US$ Millions
Loan or                                                 (less cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower         Purpose         Bank      IDA     Undisbursed
Six         Loans  Fully Disbursed                  33.9
613-IVC     1969   SODEPALM         Oil Palm &       9.0                  0.2
Coconut
667-2-IVC   1975   Ivory Coast      Education        2.2                  0.3
686-IVC     1970   Ivory Coast      Cocoa            5.3                  0.8
760-IVC     1971   SODEPALM         Oil Palm &       5.1                  0.4
Coconut
761-IVC     1971   Ivory Coast      Highways II     20.5                  0.2
837-IVC     1972   Ivory Coast      Highways III     17.5                 3.6
938-IVC     1973   SOCATCI          Rubber           8.4                  3.9
406-IVC     1973   Ivory Coast      Highways IV               7.5         4.1
981-IVC     1974   Ivory Coast      Telecom-        25.0                 24.7
munications
1036-IVC    1974   Ivory Coast      Oil Palm III     2.6                  0.7
1069-IVC    1975   Ivory Coast      Cocoa II        20.0                 19.7
1076-IVC    1975   Ivory Coast      Abidjan          9.0                  7.8
Sewerage
1977-IVC    1975   Ivory Coast      Cotton          31.0                 29.9
1124-IVC    1975   Ivory Coast      Tourism          9.7                  9.5
1125-IVC    1975   Ivory Coast      Education II     5.0                  4.2
1161-IVC    1975   Ivory Coast      Highways V      43.0                 43.0
1162-IVC    1975   CCI              DFC              5.6                  5. 6
1177-IVC    1975   BIDI             DFC              8.0                  8.0
1297-IVC/1  1976   CIMAO            Industry         3.5                  3. 5
1347-IVC/1  1976   Ivory Coast      Urban Dev.      30.0                 30.0
1348-T-
IVC/1  1976   Ivory Coast      Urban Dev.       14.0                14.0
TOTAL                                     308.3     7.5       214.1
of which has been repaid             10.7      -
TOTAL now outstanding                     297.6     7.5
Amount sold                    3.5
of which has been repaid  2.8         0.7      -
TOTAL now held by Bank & IDA              296.9     7.5
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                         210.0     4.1       214.1
/1   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of January 31, 1977)
Year     Obligor                      Type of       Loan   US Dollars   Total
Business               Equity
1965     Banque Ivoirienne            Industrial      -      204,000   204,000
de Developpement            Development
Industriel                  Bank
1977    Ets R. Gonfreville, S.A.     Textiles               880,000   880,000
Total gross commitments                      -     1,084,000 1,084,000
Less cancellation, sold
or repaid                                 _     _          _
Total commitments now
held by IFC                                -     1,084,00  ]084.000



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Ln. Nos. 613,         First Oil Palm and Coconut Projects:   Three loans for a
and 760               total of US$17.1 million of June 13, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1975. Second Oil Palm and Coconut Projects:
Two loans for a total of US$7.0 million of June 22, 1971;
Closing Dates: June 30, 1975, and November 30, 1977.
These projects are being implemented satisfactorily and are almost fully dis-
bursed. The oil mills financed in these projects processed about 220,000 tons
of fruits in 1974. The planting programs are proceeding well.
Ln. No. 667           First Education Project: US$11.0 million Loan of April 27,
1970; Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1970; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
Implementation of this project was slow, especially in the initial years.
This resulted from (i) delays in the decision-making process, especially for
the selection and appointment of consulting architects, (ii) the complexity of
consultations between international and bilateral donors on the specifications
of the Instructional Television Production Center, and (iii) uncertainties
about the project description which culminated in its renegotiation and
amendment in 1971. The amendment consisted of (a) the reduction from 11 to 10
of the number of educational institutions to be constructed under the project,
(b) the deletion of Bank financing of capitalized interest except for the
amount already disbursed, and (c) reallocation of the proceeds of the loans to
take account of modified architectural standards. Since then, the project
implementation has substantially improved, construction work for all project
schools has been completed and the schools have been in operation since
October 1975. The technology institute at Abidjan was completed and has been
in operation since October 1975. Construction of the ITV complex is completed
but will not be in operation before September 1977. This tranche of the loan
is full disbursed.
Ln. No. 667-2         Supplementary Financing for the First Education Project:
US$2.2 million Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date:
May 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
At appraisal of the First Education Project, the US dollar was worth 247 CFA
francs. When the project cost was recalculated in October 1971, the exchange
rate was US$1 = CFAF 277. Since then the dollar dropped substantially to
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
about 225 CFA francs in January 1975. In the fall of 1974 the Government re-
quested supplementary financing to offset the increase in the project's dollar
cost due to currency realignments.
Ln. No. 686           Cocoa Project:  US$7.5 million Loan of June 5, 1970;
Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977.
The Cocoa Loan has been amended to reduce the number of hectares to be rehabi-
litated. Difficulties arose in supervising large numbers of farmers who
used project inputs to treat non-project cocoa. The Government agreed to
substantially reduce the size of the rehabilitation program. (See Memorandum
to the Executive Directors R73-74 of April 13, 1973.) The project was origi-
nally scheduled to be completed in September 1976. However, with the signing
of the Second Cocoa Project (Ln. 1069-IVC), administration of the two has been
combined and an estimated 3,200 ha of cocoa plantings were transferred from
the first to the second project. Savings of US$2.2 million resulting from the
amendment (R73-74) and the merging of the two projects were cancelled at
the date of signature of the second project. Physical execution of the
first project is therefore considered to be completed. The final disbursement
has been delayed due to a confusion over documentation requirements ancl
processing by the Government external debt agency. When this disbursement,
and the final payment of capitalized interest (due April, 1977) have been
made, approximately US$200,000 would remain for cancelation.
Ln. No. 761           Second Highway Project:  US$20.5 million Loan of June 22,
1971; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1972; Closing Date:
November 30, 1975.
Execution of the project was satisfactorily completed in September 1975. The
funds remaining under the loan are being used to finance the supplementary
urban studies for Abidjan, initiated under the Third Highway Project.
Ln. No. 837           Third Highway Project:  US$17.5 million Loan of June 23,
1972; Effectiveness Date: May 4, 1973; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977.
The maintenance and betterment programs are progressing satisfactorily. Con-
struction work for the pavement strengthening program started in March 1975;
contract amount is about 120 percent over appraisal estimates due to inflation
and modification of design standards. The Government has agreed to finance all
overruns. Construction of the bridge and the urban development study for
Abidjan have been satisfactorily completed.
Cr. No. 406           Fourth Highway Project: US$7.5 million Credit of June 28,
1973; Effectiveness Date: May 8, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Construction works on the road started about one year behind schedule and
progress since then has been slower than expected. Project costs are about
70 percent above appraisal estimates due to inflation and adoption of higher
construction standards than originally envisaged. The Government will assume



ANNEX II
Page 5
financing of all cost overruns. Construction of the N'zi River bridge and
the feeder road study have been satisfactorily completed.
Ln. No. 938           Rubber Plantation Project:  US$8.4 million Loan of
October 23, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Due to slow progress in the planting program and as a result of higher-than-
expected inflation, funds under this project will only cover plantation of
about 7,000 ha which is not expected to be completed before 1979 (the total
foreseen at appraisal was 13,500 ha). Co-lenders met in January 1976 to
decide on the continuation of the planting program. The Bank has agreed
to amend the Loan Agreement to reflect the reduced planting (Memorandum
to the Executive Directors R-76-240 of September 29, 1976).
Ln. No. 981           Telecommunications Project:   US$25.0 million Loan of
May 3, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The Government is proposing to award the contract for switching equipment to
other than the lowest evaluated bidder. Thus the amount earmarked under this
loan to finance the equipment (US$7.6 million, including contingencies) would
be cancelled. Financing by the Bank of the remaining three components is
expected to proceed in accordance with the guidelines, subject to the Bank
being satisfied that the contract for switching equipment does not jeopardize
the financial viability of the project entity.
Ln. No. 1036          Third Oil Palm Project:  US$2.6 million Loan of July 31,
1974; Effectiveness Date: July 29, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The planting program is under way. It is estimated that 12,000 ha of palm oil
estates will be established; the outgrowers program is progressing well.
Ln. No. 1069          Second Cocoa Project:  US$20.0 million Loan of January 10,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
More than 50 percent of the total planting foreseen for the five-year project
period was completed in 1976. Block plantings have been lagging behind due to
difficulties in infrastructure development. Disbursements are currently two
years behind project execution due to problems in establishing a system to
provide the necessary documentation and format for withdrawal applications. A
recent agreement with the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement to have withdrawal
applications prepared by the executing agency should speed up the process.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Ln. No. 1076         Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project:    US$9.0 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Although construction works have already started, project execution is expected
to be delayed by about one year due to delays in procurement decisions.
Ln. No. 1077          Cotton Areas Rural Development Project:   US$31.0 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 4, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Physical progress of the project under CIDT is in line with appraisal estimates
and overall performance of CIDT is satisfactory. As a result of overestimated
increase in demand for food crops, marketing of the crops has caused problems.
Although the village water supply and feeder road program was originally
delayed, appropriate measures have now been taken to implement both programs.
Disbursements are currently two years behind project execution due to problems
in establishing a system to provide the necessary documentation and format for
withdrawal applications. A recent agreement with the Caisse Autonome d'Amortis-
sement to have withdrawal applications prepared by the executing agency should
speed up the process.
Ln. No. 1124          Tourism Development Project:   US$9.7 million Loan of
June 11, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
The first two sub-projects (US$2.9 million and US$400,000) have been approved.
Ln. No. 1125          Second Education Project:  US$5.0 million Loan of June 11,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 9, 1975; Closing Date
June 30, 1979.
Good progress is being made in provision of technical assistance. The studies
of regional training needs, legislation for vocational training and management
of educational TV are under way; plans are well advanced for the preparation of
an inventory of secondary school facilities. The design of project institutions
is some twelve months behind schedule, but is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1161          Fifth Highway Project:  US$43 million Loan of September 5,
1975; Effectiveness Date: November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Construction of the Anyama-Agboville road and the pavement strengthening
program started at the beginning of 1976. Consultants have started the engi-
neering studies provided for under the project. UNDP was originally to finance
the updating of the transport survey but cannot do so due to lack of funds.
The Government has agreed to amend the Loan Agreement to include financing of
the survey in this loan.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Ln. No. 1162          Small-Scale Enterprises Project:  US$5.6 million Loan of
September 5, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The first sub-projects are being prepared by Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire, the
project's financial intermediary, and are expected to be submitted to the Bank
shortly.
Ln. No. 1177          BIDI DFC Project:  US$8.0 million Loan of December 12,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 10, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The first sub-projects are being prepared.
Ln. No. 1297 I/       CIMAO Project:  US$3.5 million Loan of June 28, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The first regional industrial venture in West Africa, co-financed by seven
other official aid agencies, is proceeding satisfactorily. Financing arrange-
ments are on schedule. Procurement is proceeding according to plan: the most
important contract - for raw mills and kilns - has been awarded.
Ln. No. 1347     Urban Development Project:   US$44.0 million.   Loans (US$30.0
and 1348-T       million and US$14.0 million on Bank and Third Window terms
respectively) of December 15, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
This loan is not yet effective.
I/ Not yet effective.






ANNEX III
Page 1
IVORY COAST
Fourth Oil Palm and Coconut Project
(Project Summary)
Borrower:         SODEPALM
Guarantor:        The Republic of the Ivory Coast
Terms:            20 years, including 4-1/2 years' grace period, with an
interest rate of 8.5 percent per annum.
Project           The project would cover the first three years of a four-
Description:      year planting program begun in late 1975.   It would consist
of:
(a) preparation of about 18,500 ha for the creation of oil
palm and coconut estates;
(b) establishment of about 8,000 ha of oil palm and
7,500 ha of coconut estates;
(c) providing infrastructure for both estates, such as
feeder roads, housing, social, medical and admini-
strative buildings, store sheds, vehicles and equip-
ment;
(d) establishing an outgrowers program covering about
2,000 ha of coconut and 500 ha of oil palm plantings
on land cleared by the farmers;
(e) providing the farmers with loans, extension services
and infrastructure; and
(f) provision for a Project Directorate, including offices
housing, vehicles, equipment and operating funds.
The project would not include processing facilities which
are part of the Government's larger four-year program and
are expected to be financed by the Government.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Total        %
Local               (incl.    Foreign
Cost     Foreign    taxes)     Exch.
Estimated Cost: (in US $ millions)
I. Coconut Estates
- Land preparation             3.3       5.7      9.0
- Estate operating costs       0.5       0.5      1.0
- Investments                  0.7       1.4      2.1
SUBTOTAL                     4.5       7.6     12.1         63
II.  Oil Palm Estates
- Land preparation             4.2       7.7     11.9
- Estate operating costs       0.5       0.6      1.1
- Investments                  1.4       2.9      4.3
SUBTOTAL                     6.1      11.2     17.3         65
III. Outgrowers Program
- Extension                    0.2       0.1       0.3
- Loans                        0.8       0.3       1.1
SUBTOTAL                     1.0       0.4      1.4         29
IV. Southwest Regional
Management                   0.3       0.5      0.8         63
TOTAL BASE COST             11.9      19.7     31.6         62
V.  Contingencies                  3.4       5.6       9.0
GRAND TOTAL                 15.3      25.3     40.6 1/      62
1/   Total Project costs net of taxes amount to US $36.2 million.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Estimated
Disbursements:    (in US $ millions)
FY77     FY78      FY79
Yearly                              0.5     12.0       7.5
Accumulated                         0.5     12.5      20.00
Procurement
Arrangements:     All contracts of US$100,000 equivalent or more for the pro-
curement of vehicles and equipment (totaling about US$3.1
million) would be made through international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts for
goods and services costing less than $100,000 equivalent
may be procured under local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Bank, provided however that the aggregate
of the cost of all goods and services so procured shall not
exceed US$1.0 million equivalent. Contracts for buildings with
a total value of US$5.2 million, involving several opera-
tions scattered across the project area, are not large enough
to attract foreign interest and would be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance
witl. local procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
Civil works consisting of land clearing and estate feeder
roads (totaling US$19.1 million), and land development of
US$7.8 million would be carried out by SODEPALM under force
account and reimbursed against completion certificates:
SODEPALM has the equipment needed for this work and has
demonstrated that it can conduct it more efficiently and at
lower cost than other contractors. The remaining project
costs (US $5.4 million) would be mainly for staff, labor,
farmers' loans and operating expenses.
Retroactive
Financing:       Up to US$500,000 for buildings, equipment, vehicles, extension
services and farmers credits incurred after January 1, 1977
would be financed retroactively.
Economic Rate
of Return:       The overall economic rate of return of the project is about
17 percent.
Appraisal
Report:          No. 1204-IVC of March 2, 1977.






ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2 pages
IVORY COAST
Fourth Oil Palm and Coconut Project
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
SECTION I
Timetable of Key Events
a)   Project Identification
during Bank Supervision Mission of previous
oil palm projects                                  November 1973
b)   Project Preparation
carried out by SODEPALM and Ministry of            January 1974 to
Agriculture                                        October 1975
c)   Appraisal Mission                                     January 1976
d)   Negotiations Completed                                December 1976
e)   Loan Effectiveness Planned                            June 1977
SECTION II
Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank would closely follow and review with the Borrower project development
in order to help determine the time when the Project Directorate should be
established in the Southwest region.
SECTION III
Special Conditions
Special conditions included in the legal documents are that:
(a) the price paid by the Price Stabilization Fund (CSSPPA) for
SODEPALM's produce would be established in advance of a crop
year and cover (i) SODEPALM's operating costs, including
current replacement of short-term assets; (ii) debt service;
and (iii) quality incentive bonus (Paras. 44 and 45);



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2 pages
(b) the Project Directorate in the Southwest region be established
in consultation with the Bank (para.49);
(c)  the new marketing arrangements as included in a recent presidential
decree be implemented (para. 50);
(d)  the Government provide the necessary funds to improve the access
roads to the project sites (para. 51); and
(e) the Government would make all necessary funds available to SOI)EPALM
to carry out its ongoing and future investment program, including
any auxiliary activity it may be entrusted with by the Government
(para. 54).
Special Conditions of Effectivenes would be:
(a) that the Bank has received satisfactory assurances with respect
to the BNDA-SODEPALM Loan (para. 53);
(b) that Government financing for the first project year had been
adequately provided by the Development Budget (Budget Special
d'Investissement et d'Equipement) (para. 53);
(c) that Government, SODEPALM and Palmindustries have ratified
the Agreement Amending Previous Agreements and taken all
appropriate action required for the organization of the
SODEPALM group, i.e. dissolution of Palmivoire, purchase of
Palmindustrie's shares, signing of the Contract de bail
termination of Protocol d'accord and Mandat d'investissement
et de gestion (para. 50); and
(d) that the presidential decree fixing the new price and marketing
arrangements, has been published and is in full force and effect
(para. 54).



