Report No. 1204-IVC                                                           FILE  COPY
Appraisal of a Fourth
Oil Palm and Coconut Project Ivory Coast
March 2, 1977
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the Worid Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1              -       CFAF 245
CFAF 1            -       US$o.004
CFAF 1 million    -       US$4,444
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)    =       2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)   =       2.2 lbs
1 metric ton              2,204.6 lbs
ABBREVIATIONS
ARSO      Autorite pour l'Amenagement de la Region du Sud-Ouest
BNDA      Banque Nationale pour le Developpement de l'Agriculture
(National Bank for Agricultural Development)
BSIE      Budget Special d'Investissement et d'Equipement (The
Development Budget)
CAA       Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (an Ivorian public insti-
tution in charge of the servicing and amortization of Ivory
Coast public debt)
CFAF      Communaute Financiere Africaine Franc (the common currency
of the monetary union)
CSSPPA    Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des Productions
Agricoles (Agricultural Price Stabilization Agency)
FER       Fonds d'Extension et de Renouvellement pour le Developpement
de la Culture du Palmier a Huile (an investment fund for the
renovation and development of oil palms)
IRHO      Institut de Recherches pour les Huiles et Oleagineux (French
Agricultural Oils Research Institute)
RMWA      World Bank Regional Mission, West Africa
SODEPALM  Societe Pour le Developpement et l'Exploitation du Palmier a
Huile (Ivory Coast Government-owned Company specialized in
oil palm and coconut development)
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IVORY COAST
APPRAISAL OF FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .............................    i - vi
I.    INTRODUCTION  ....... ..............              ...................         1
II.    BACKGROUND  ..........................................                        2
A.    General  ........................................                      2
B.    The Agricultural  Sector  ........................                     2
C.    Institutions  ...................................                      3
D.    Development  Strategy  ...........................                     4
E.    The Oil Palm and Coconut Sector  ....                ............      5
F.    Achievements  under the previous Oil Palm and
Coconut Projects  .............................                     8
G.    The Southwest Region  ...........................                      9
III.    THE PROJECT  .........................................                        9
A.    The Project Area  ...............................                      9
B.    Summary Project Description  ....................                     10
C.    Detailed Features  ..............................                     il
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ...........            ..     ............      14
A.    Project Directorate  ............................                     14
B.    Project Organization  ...........................                     15
C.    Outgrower Selection,  Size of Holdings and
Credit Arrangements  ..........................                    15
D.    SODEPALM Finances  ..............................                     16
V.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING ........................                        17
A.    Cost Estimates  .................................                     17
B.    Proposed Financing  .............................                     19
C.    Retroactive Financing  ..........................                     20
D.    Procurement  ....................................                     20
E.    Disbursement  ...................................                     21
F.    Accounts and Audit  .............................                     21
This staff report is based on the findings of a Bank mission, comprising
Messrs. G. Losson, R. Simsolo and T. Winston, which visited the Ivory
Coast in January 1976.
This document hs a restricted distribution nd may be used by rmcipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
VI.   YIELDS AND OUTPUT, MARKETS AND PRICES ...............    22
A.   Yields and Output ......     ........................    22
B.   Processing ..............                           22
C.  Markets and Prices .............................     23
VII.   FINANCIAL BENEFITS AND OUTLOOK ................... ...    23
A.   Project  Cash  Flow  ..............................  23
B.   Outgrowers Benefits ............................    24
VIII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....    .............    25
IX.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...............    26
ANNEXES
I.  Progress of Agricultural Projects Financed by the Bank
II.  Evolution of the SODEPALM Croup Finances
Table 1. SODEPALM Group Balance Sheet at September 30, 1975
Table 2. SODEPALM - Cash Flow of the Oil Palm and Coconut Sectors
III.   Technical Features
Fourth Oil Palm and Coconut Project:
Appendix 1. Development of the Southwest Region
Appendix 2. Kaincope Disease
Attachment 1. IRHO Note On Kaincope Disease
Appendix 3. Problems of Land Tenure in West-Africa
Table 1.  Project Phasing and Personnel Requirements
Table 2.  Projected Yields
Table 3.  Projections for Oil Palm ffb and Kernels
Table 4.  Projected Yields and Yearly Production of Coconuts,
Copra and Coconut Charcoal
Table 5.  Ivory Coast Palm Oil and Kernels Production - 1970/1985
Table 6.  Southwest Plantations:  Structure and Management Chart
IV.  The Outgrowers Program
Part 1.  Oil Palm Outgrowers
Part 2.  Coconut Outgrowers
Table 1.  Oil Palm Outgrowers - Cash Flow and Income Projection
Table 2.  Coconut Outgrowers - Cash Flow and Income Projection



V.        Industrial Investments and Processing Costs
Table 1. Total Processing Costs of Palm Oil and Copra - 1976
to 1980
Table 2. Breakdown of Unit Processing Costs of Copra and
Coconut Charcoal
VI.   Project Costs
Table 1.   Recapitulation of Project costs
Table 2.   Land Preparation Costs - Coconut Estates
Table 3.   Land Preparation Costs - Oil Palm Estates
Table 4.   Estates Operating Costs - Summary
Table 5.   Estates Operating Costs - Staff Costs GLIKE
Table 6.   Estates Operating Costs - Staff Costs NERO
Table 7.   Estates Operating Costs - Staff Costs IBOKE
Table 8.   Estates Operating Costs - Staff Costs DEWAKE
Table 9.   Investments - Summary
Table 10.  Investments - Vehicles
Table 11.  Investments - Building Program and Construction Costs
Table 12.  Number of Field Workers and Housing Units - Coconut
Estates
Table 13.  Number of Field Workers and Housing Units - Oil Palm
Estates
Table 14.  Investments - Equipment and Installations
Table 15.  Outgrowers Program - Detailed Costs
Table 16.  Outgrowers Program - Extension Service and Investments
Table 17.  Southwest Regional Management Operating Costs
VII.   Project Cash Flow
Table 1.   Cash Flow
Table 2.   Project Costs, Maintenance, and Additional Investments
Table 3.   Value of Palm Oil in Current Prices
Table 4.   Value of Palm Oil Kernels in Current Prices
Table 5.   Value of Copra in Current Prices
Table 6.   Projected Price of Coconut Charcoal:  Breakdown
Table 7.   Projected Value of Coconut Charcoal Exports in Current
Terms
VIII.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IX.   Market Outlook and Prices
Table 1.   Prices for Selected Fats and Oils
Table 2.   World Production of Selected Oilseeds, Fats and Oils
Table 3.   World Exports of Selected Oilseeds, Fats and Oils



- 4 -
X.   Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Table 1.   Projected Annual Production
Table 2.   Projected Palm Oil Prices in 1976
Constant Terms
Table 3.   Projected Oil Palm Kernel Prices in 1976 Constant Terms
Table 4.   Projected Copra Prices in 1976 Constant Terms
Table 5.   Coconut Estates - Economic Benefits and Costs Streams
Table 6.   Oil Palm Estates - Economic Benefits and Costs Streams
Table 7.   Oil Palm Outgrowers - Economic Benefits and Cost Streams
Table 8.   Coconut Outgrowers - Economic Benefits and Cost Streams
Table 9.   Overall Economic Benefits and Cost Streams for Project
XI.   Monitoring Requirements
Table 1.   Reporting requirements - Coconut Sector
Table 2.   Reporting requirements - Oil Palm Sector
MAPS
IBRD 12157 Southwest Project Area
IBRD 12185 SODEPALM Oil Palm East of Sassandra



IVORi COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AMD COCONUT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Background
i.        The Government of the Ivory Coast has asked the Bank to help
finance an oil palm and coconut develcpment program in the Southwest Region
of the country. The development of this largely unpopulated area began
with the construction of basic infrastructure, exploitation of the tropical
forest, and now agricultural plantations. Rubber, Oil Palm and Coconut are
the only possible opportunities to develop agriculture in that region, with
the advantage of diversifying agriculture. Through investments in palm
plantations the Government expects to replicate the sector's success in the
southeast and to make a valuable contribution to the economic progress of the
region. The proposed project was prepared by SODEPALM, which from its opera-
tion in the southeast of the country has gained large experience in the oil
palm and coconut sector.
The Project Area and Summary Description
ii.       The Southwest Region, where the proposed project would be located,
lies between the Sassandra River and the border with Liberia, with a northern
limit along the axis Guiglo/Assia. The region consists mostly of forest and
conditions are suitable for perennial tree crops. The project is part of a
four-year planting program begun in late 1975 and would cover a three-year
slice beginning with land preparation undertaken in 1975 for plantings com-
pleted after mid-1976. It would consist of the:
(a) preparation of about 18,500 ha for the creation of oil palm
and coconut estates;
(b) establishing of about 8,000 ha of oil palm and 7,500 ha of
coconut estates;
(c) providing infrastructure for both estates, including
feeder roads, housing, social, medical and administrative
buildings, store sheds, vehicles and equipment;
(d) establishment of an outgrowers program covering about 2,000 ha
coconut and 500 ha of oil palm plantations on land cleared by
the farmers;
(e) provision to farmers of loans, extension services and infra-
structure; and
(f) provisions for a Project Directorate, including offices,
housing vehicles, equipment and operating funds.



- ii -
The project would exclude the processing facilities, which will be constructed
during the four-year program and are expected to be financed by the Government.
iii.      The initial estate plantations would provide the necessary physical
and social infrastructure to facilitate the establishment of outgrowers plant-
ings. Estate planting targets would be flexible to allow a further expansion
of the outgrower component if feasible. This would affect mainly the coconut
plantings under which outgorwers are expected to plant a minimum of 2,000 ha,
but possibly as much as 3,000 ha during the project period. During the
four-year program the aim would be an outgrower component of 30% of the entire
program. In the long run the program is expected to be comparable with that
in the Southeast, where small farmers plantings represent about 40% of the
total.
Project Execution
iv.       The project would be executed by SODEPALM.  The civil works depart-
ment of SODEPALM would carry out the clearing and land preparation for the
estate plantations, since it owns the necessary equipment and has demonstrated
its effectiveness in this field. The Project Directorate, currently located
in Abidjan, would be established in the Southwest Region as soon as required
in consultation with the Bank. The incumbent Project Manager is qualified to
hold this important post.
Institutions
v.        SODEPALM was created in 1963 as a state enterprise to carry out the
Government's programs for the development of the oil palm and coconut sector.
When the first plantings were near maturity and substantial processing invest-
ments were required, the Government decided on a corporate change involving
private investors. Thus two new companies emerged in 1969, Palmindustrie,
responsible for the industrial complex, and Palmivoire, a management company,
both of which had foreign and Ivorian interests. The three companies were
linked by a contract of "Association de participation" and became known as
the SODEPALM Group.
vi.       Government decided in 1974 to make SODEPALM again responsible for
all operations and to buy out private interests in Palmindustrie and Palmivoire,
representing about 15% of the total SODEPALM group equity. A satisfactory
compensation formula was agreed to in 1976. Palmivoire recently was dissolved,
while Palmindustrie continues as a company owning industrial, transport, and
processing facilities, all rented to SODEPALM. Legal arrangements are now
completed and are satisfactory.
vii.      By a recent decree, the Government has transferred SODEPALM's mar-
keting responsibilities to the country's agricultural price stabilization fund
(CSSPPA). The new arrangements are satisfactory and should insure adequate
financing of SODEPALM/Palmindustrie activites: CSSPPAA would finance the
functioning and the development of the oil palm and coconut sectors with the



- iii -
revenues from these sectors. Government, through the BSIE, would intervene
only if the resources from the palm sectors were not sufficient to finance new
investments. The prices for SODEPALM's produce will be established in advance
of a crop year on the basis of SODEPALM/Palmindustrie budgets approved by
their respective Boards and the responsible ministries. They would include
operating costs, provisions for current replacement of assets, and debt serv-
ice. In addition, CSSPPA ahould also provide the balance of oil palm and coco-
nut sector resources necessary to finance SODEPALM/Palmindustrie investment
programs also approved by their respective Boards and responsible ministries.
The basis and initial level of payment decided by Government for palm oil for
the 1976/77 agricultural campaign have been analysed and found satisfactory.
Under the same decree, CSSPPA has to deposit funds into an account kept by CAA
for replacement of SODEPALM's assets with a life of more than five years.
Amounts paid into this account will be available to SODEPALM upon decision by
its Board and the responsible Ministries that such replacements are required.
The Government would ensure to make available to SODEPALM, either through
CSSPPA or other resources, any funds necessary to carry out ongoing and future
investment programs of auxiliary activities entrusted to SODEPALM.
viii.      These changes in the corporate structure and marketing arrangements
were exhaustively discussed with the various co-lenders, including the Bank,
over the past two years. The co-lenders principle concern was to ensure
that the operational efficiency of SODEPALM, which had traditionally reached
a high standard, was not impaired. They also sought to ensure that the fi-
nancial integrity of the enterprise would remain sound, thereby enabling
SODEPALM both to continue to meet its outstanding debt servicing obligations
and continue to be considered a suitable borrower for future loans. Although
the Bank and the other co-lenders had initial reservations about the new
arrangements, they now feel that the new measures, as finalized by a recent
Presidential decree, will allow SODEPALM to meet the criteria of a viable
borrower. The necessary changes in the legal documents governing the Bank's
existing relationship with SODEPALM have been incorporated in the proposed
Agreement Amending Previous Agreements which was agreed upon in substance
with the other co-lenders.
Labor
ix.       The project labor requirements would be relatively modest, reaching
a peak of about 1,600 field workers in Year 3. The initial recruitment of
labor from within the area has exceeded expectations and about 500 workers
were already employed early in 1976; this bodes well for the project.
However, since the region is thinly populated, and since the project would be
competing for labor with other plantations in the region, it may not be
possible to meet all requirements locally. As in the case of most estate
developments in the Ivory Coast, field workers may have to be attracted from
neighboring countries. Recruiting and holding workers have become more
difficult in recent years, and the estates would therefore have housing and
social facilities of a standard that has been adopted for the more recently
built estates elsewhere in the country. The Government would take appropriate
measures to ensure that an adequate number of field workers are available to
the project in time.



- iv -
Cost Estimates and Financing
x.        Project costs during the three-year investment period are estimated
at US$36.2 million equivalent net of taxes (US$40.6 million including taxes).
The foreign exchange component would be US$25.3 million or 62% of total costs.
Cost estimates are based on January 1976 prices. Contingencies amount to 22%
of the total net project costs. It is proposed that a Bank loan of
US$20 million be made to SODEPALM for a term of 20 years, including a four-
and-a-half year grace period. The loan would finance 55% of net project costs
and would cover about 88% of the foreign exchange costs incurred during the
three year project period. However, for disbursement purposes, the Bank Loan
would finance 100% of the foreign exchange cost during the last two project
years (see para xii below). The Government intends to authorize the Banque
Nationale pour le Developpement de l'Agriculture (BNDA) to assist in financ-
ing part of the project through a loan of US$2.0 million equivalent to
SODEPALM. The balance of project costs (US$18.6 million) would be financed
by the Government through the Special Budget for Investments and Equipment
(BSIE).
xi.       Farmer loans to outgrowers would be disbursed by SODEPALM.  As under
the three previous Oil Palm Projects, outgrowers would receive nominally
interest-free credits from SODEPALM. However, production prices would be
fixed so as to enable Government to earn a reasonable financial return on its
contribution. On the basis of the price assumptions used in the project cash
flow, the return to Government from the proposed investment in the outgrower
program is estimated at about 18%.
Retroactive Financing
xii.      Government would finance SODEPALM's costs incurred in 1976 (about
US$10 million), mainly land-clearing for the first plantation year. However,
the Government has asked that expenditures incurred on the project prior to
the signature of the Bank loan and after January 1, 1977 be financed retro-
actively. Therefore, retroactive financing of up to US$500,000 for expendi-
tures incurred after January 1, 1977, covering costs for buildings, equip-
ment, vehicles, extension services and farmers credits would be included in
the project.
Procurement
xiii.     All contracts of US$100,000 equivalent or more for the procurement
of vehicles and equipment (totalling about US$3.1 million) would be made
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Contracts for goods and services costing less than $100,000 equivalent may
be procured under local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Bank, provided however that the aggregate of the cost of all goods and ser-
vices so procured shall not exceed US$1.0 million equivalent. Contracts
for buildings with a total value of US$5.2 million, involving several opera-
tions scattered across the project area, are not large enough to attract
foreign interest and would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures which are accept-
able to the Bank. Civil works consisting of land clearing and estate feeder



v 
roads (totaling US$19.1 million), and land development of US$7.8 million would
be carried out by SODEPALIM under force account and reimbursed against comple-
tion certificates; SODEPALM has the equipment needed for this work and has
demonstrated that it can conduct it more efficiently and at lower cost than
other contractors. The remaining project costs (US$5.4 million) would be
mainly for staff, labor, farmers' loans and operating expenses.
xiv.      The proposal that SODEPALM carry out land clearing by force account
stems from excessively high tenders received from international bidders in
1971 for the first SODEPALM project (Ln. 611-IVC). Under the second and
third projects (Lns. 760 and 1036-IVC), when force account was recommended,
SODEPALM cleared about 15,000 ha at about US$500 per ha, close to half
the international bids received in 1971. For the proposed project, SODEPALM1
anticipates that their costs will be below those offered in 1971. SODEPALM has
an inherent advantage compared with international bidders inasmuch as it has
specialized equipment available on location, clears land under other Government
mandates, and has extensive experience in this field. Furthermore, land
clearing for rubber estates managed by private enterprise continues to be
executed under force account.
Disbursements
xv.       The Bank loan would be disbursed over two years and cover 75% of the
costs for land clearing including construction of access roads (US$7.5 million).
The land clearing cost would not exceed fixed maxima per ha (CFAF 203,000 for
oil palm and CFAF 192,000 for coconut estates, in constant 1976 prices). The
loan would also cover 60% of agricultural costs, i.e., labor and planting
materials, of oil palm, and coconut estates in years two and   three (US$3.0
million) 65% of total expenditures or 100% of the foreign exchange costs of
vehicles, buildings and related equipment of the oil palm and coconut estates
(US$3.5 million); 80% of costs of the outgrower program including loans in
kind and in cash (US$1.1 million) and of the Project Directorate (US$0.4
million); and US$4.5 million would be unallocated.
14arketing and Prices
xvi.      It is expected that 60% of the palm oil (about 20,000 tons), all
the palm kernels (about 7,500 tons), and the bulk of the copra and coconut
charcoal produced under the project, would be exported. Palm oil, when proj-
ect plantings reach full maturity, would represent less than 1% of antici-
pated world trade. Copra production would represent about 1.6% of the ex-
pected world trade at that time. Ivory Coast palm oil enjoys an excellent.
reputation for its low acid content and is sold at a premium above world
prices.
Economic Benefits and Justification
xvii.     Primary benefits from the project plantings would be the production
of palm oil and kernels, copra and coconut charcoal. Net annual foreign
exchange earnings from the project are expected to reach about US$40.0
million by 1986.



- vi -
xi ii.    In addition, the project would create social and physical infra-
structure for the settlement of new farmers in the virtually undeveloped
Eiuthwest Region. It would also create about 1,600 fulltime additional jobs
f r estate-laborers, and considerably increase the incomes of about 600 local
f armers.
Yix.       In the economic analysis, output values are based on expected world
Frices, labor cost at estimated efficiency wages and non-labor costs have
taen valued at market cost net of taxes (in 1975 terms). The resulting
Economic rates of return are 17% fore the whole project, 16.5% for both
the oil palm and coconut estates and 30% and 23% for the oil palm and coconut
cutgrowers respectively. If costs and benefits had been adjusted for tariff
and trade distortions with a conversion factor, the "efficiency" economic rate
cf return would have been 20% for the whole project. All rates of return have
low sensitivities to changes in costs or benefits. The higher rates of return
Estimated for the outgrowers are substantially the result of attributing the
cost of certain central infrastructure and services entirely to the estates.
Efforts would be made during project implementation to maximize the size of
the outgrower components if outgrower achievements are satisfactory. The area
xatios of the four project components have, however, been determined on
Iroject administration and labor availabilities, on the basis of experience
eained from other tree crop projects in the Ivory Coast.
Eisks
>x.       IRHO, which would provide estates and outgrowers with oil palm and
coconut hybrid seeds, has studied the Kaincope disease, a lethal "yellowing
.ilt", that attacks coconut varieties throughout West African producer coun-
tries and could potentially spread into the project area. Although the danger
cannot be ignored, IRHO researchers feel the disease resistance in hybrid
'arieties is sufficient to minimize the risk so as to be far outweighed by
the potential project benefits.
2xi.      It is possible that the project could face a manpower constraint.
Iowever, its labor requirements are modest and the Government would take
.ppropriate measures to ensure adequate availability of field workers. If
<espite these assurances the Borrower were unable to recruit enough workers,
lhe planting program would have to be adjusted accordingly.
::xii.    Deforestation in the Southwest Region where other development
t;chemes are going on or are planned, could have a negative ecological impact
if not phased properly. The Government therefore agreed to submit to the
',ank within one year of loan signature a land-use planning scheme.
P'ecommendation
::xiii.    Subject to the assurances and conditions outlined in Chapter IX,
-:he project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$20.0 million, for a term of
"0 years including 4 1/2 years of grace.



IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Ivory Coast has asked the Bank to help fi-
nance an oil palm and coconut development prograia in the southwest region.
The objective is to continue the phased development of this largely unpopu-
lated region, namely: Phase 1 - large infrastructural investments in ports
and roads; Phase 2 - exploitation and the forestry resource; and now the
logical Phase 3 - agricultural development. Through investment in palm plant-
ations, the Government hopes to replicate the very successful development of
this sector in the southeast, and thus create a pole of development necessary
to carry forward the economic progression of the region.
1.02      The Bank appraised a four-year planting program covering 22,000 ha
of oil palm/coconuts over four years. This is a "Programme d'Urgence" sanction-
ed by the Planning Ministry and authorized by a "Loi Programme" decree of
December 1974. The fourth year of plantings was excluded to achieve a balance
between available funds and a meaningful participation by the Bank in the
project. Thus, the project would be limited to three years of planting,
covering 15,500 ha of estates and 2,500 ha of outgrower plots. In addition
Government plans to carry out the fourth year of plantation, and establish
processing facilities both for oil palm and coconut products when trees come
to maturity. Government would undertake the obligation to maintain the area
planted tnder this project and to provide for processing facilities.
1.03      The Bank has made three previous lending operations for an oil palm/
coconut development program east of the Sassandra River, under the responsib-
ility of the SODEPALM group of companies. This involves some 100,000 ha of
palm trees and substantial processing and commercial activity, and Government
has agreed that the southwest program should have a separate Project Director-
ate.   However, to take advantage of SODEPALM's expertise and available re-
sources, Government instructed this company to prepare and begin executing
the Southwest Program with its own prefinance. This appraisal report is based
on the findings of a Bank mission which visited the Ivory Coast in January,
1976, composed of Messrs. G. Losson, R. Simsolo, and T. Winston.
1.04      The Bank has made 10 loans for agricultural development in the Ivory
Coast: three totalling US$17.1 million in 1969 for oil palm and coconut devel-
opment (Loans 611, 612 and 613-IVC); a loan of US$7.5 million in 1970 for
smallholder cocoa production (Loan 686-IVC); two loans totalling US$7 mil-
lion in 1971 for oil palm and coconut (Loans 759 and 760; IVC); a loan of
US$8.4 million  ui 1973 for a rubber project (Loan 938-IVC); and a loan of
US$2.6 million in 1974 for oil palm smallholder and estate development (Loan
1036-IVC). A second cocoa smallholder project of US$20.0 million (Loan
1069-IVC) and a cotton areas rural development project of US$31.0 million
(Loan 1077-IVC) were made in 1974 and 1975, respectively. Notwithstanding
some initial difficulties, all these projects have been completed or are



progressing satisfactorily - with one exception, that of the Grand-Bereby
Rubber Project (Loan 938-IVC), where progress has been seriously hampered
by labor shortages and increasing costs (see President's Memo to Board
R.76-240 of September 29, 1976).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2
2.01      The Ivory Coast covers about 324,000 km . Tropical rain forest
stretches across the southern half of the country, in a belt reaching about
200 km inland from the Atlantic Ocean. Further north, the forest is grad-
ually replaced by savannah, which covers the other half of the country.
2.02      Population, estimated at 6.7 million (mid-1975), has been growing
at about 3.8% annually, including 1.3% from immigration. GDP growth has
been high, averaging 7% a year in real terms over the past decade.  The
country's economy, and its rapid progress, have been based on the production
of coffee and cocoa, palm oil, bananas and pineapples, on the exploitation
of the forest resources, and an expanding industry (which now accounts for
12% of GDP). All these activities are mainly in the south, where the capital
and industrial center, Abidjan, is located. The northern savannah, with half
of the country's area and 35% of its population, has a less favorable resource
endowment, and livelihoods there depend on cotton, food production, and some
livestock. Overall, per capita income is currently about US$500.
2.03      Rural per capita incomes average about US$130, but regional dis-
parities are large. Average income exceeds US$220 in the southeast; drops
to about US$110 in the center, where production patterns of the forest and
savannah regions overlap; falls below US$70 in the north; and, in the south-
west it is estimated to be about US$80-90. These income disparities account
in part for rural-urban migration and migration within the rural areas, from
the savannah to the forest zone. Over the next decade, population is proj-
ected to grow in cities at around 8.5% per annum, in the forest zone at about
4%, and to decline in the savannah by about 0.5% per year.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.04      Agriculture and forestry account for about 90% of the country's
exports and 25% of its GDP. They are the mainspring of the country's growth
and will remain so for many years to come. Abundant land, good labor supply
and generally favorable world markets for its products have assured rapid



- 3 -
agricultural growth in the Ivory Coast. About 70% of the population depends
on agriculture and forestry. The per capita income in the sector, in 1975,
was US$150. The estimated value of agricultural production in 1974/75 was
US$500 million, of which industrial crops accounted for about US$278 million,
food crops US$191 million, and livestock US$31 million. From 1970 through
1974, annual exports averaged US$90 million of which the three main commodi-
ties -- coffee (27%) timber (26%) and cocoa (22%) -- accounted for about 75%.
2.05      Until recently, efforts to improve agricultural productivity have
been focused on individual export crops. Promotion of these crops by special-
ized, autonomous public companies has been quite successful. Food crop pro-
duction did not generally benefit from this intensive promotional effort but,
responding to market indicators, made substantial progress. In the early
1970's, the Government turned its attention to the interrelated problems of
rural poverty and regional income disparities. It has undertaken major
programs for cotton, rice, and sugar, and additional programs of oil palm
as part of its plan for regional development. Many of these programs are
designed to include food crops in the same areas where cash crops are devel-
oped.  An example is the important program in cotton intermingled with food
crops designed for the Savannah region which was started in 1974 with Bank
assistance.
C. Institutions
2.06      Overall development planning is in the hands of the Planning
Ministry while detailed agricultural development programs are the responsi-
bility of the Ministries of Agriculture and of Livestock. Execution of
these programs is generally entrusted to autonomous agencies set up by the
Government to promote one or several crops. The principal agencies are
SATMACI (cocoa and coffee), SOCAICI (rubber), SODEFEL (fruit and vegetables),
SODERIZ (rice, mainly swamp and irrigated), CIDT (cotton and food crops), and
SODEPALM (oil palm and coconut). For a more detailed description of SODEPALM,
see Section E (Oil Palm and Coconut Sector).
2.07      The Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des Productions
Agricoles (CSSPPA) is responsible for carrying out Government agricultural
price support policies. It supports producer prices for cotton, cocoa
and coffee in a conventional manner, paying a guaranteed minimum price fixed
annually, selling the commodities on the world market, and absorbing profits
or losses on its operations. CSSPPA surpluses have partly been used for new
investments, mainly in the agricultural sector. For CSSPPA involvement in
the oil palm and coconut sector, see Section E.
2.08      Fonds d'Extension et de Renouvellement (FER) was set up in conjunc-
tion with the oil palm development program at the request of the European
Development Fund (FED). Its initial objective was to finance modern housing
for oil palm estate workers and to assist in financing the development of



- 4 -
outgrowers' oil palm production. Its main source of revenue consists of
transfers from SODEPALM, per fresh fruit bunches produced on the oil palm
estate, as a form of repayment of a FED grant to Government. FER will con-
tinue to play an important role in the financing of future outgrowers' plant-
ations.
2.09      Agricultural Research.  Research on individual crops is carried out
by specialized institutes under Government supervision. The institutes deal-
ing with coffee and cocoa (IFCC), oil crops (IRHO) and cotton (IRCT) have
achieved excellent results, in close coordination with the corresponding
development agencies.
2.10      The Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Agricole (BNDA), the
main source of agricultural credit, has so far operated through the auto-
nomous development agencies (para 2.06), which handle credit distribution and
recovery. BNDA has used for these purposes its own equity and a line of
rediscount with the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO).
BNDA is active in establishing branches in the rural areas with the purpose of
dealing directly with farmers and farmers' groups. The Bank is examining the
feasibility of helping BNDA achieve this goal, possibly through an RDF project.
2.11      Two autonomous regional organizations, the "Autorite pour l'Amenage-
ment de la Valle du Bandama" (AVB) and the "Autorite pour l'Amenagement de la
Region du Sud-Ouest" (ARSO), have been created mainly to resettle farmers dis-
placed by the Kossou Lake and to develop the southwest, respectively. Both
agencies are expected to have an important impact on development planning in
their respective regions.
D. Development Strategy
2.12      The Government's objective is to maintain the high real rate of
growth in the economy which has averaged about 7% per annum in the last
decade (para 2.02). Agriculture is given high priority because the economy
is very dependent on foreign exchange, as well as on a few major export com-
modities (para 2.02), and food production has not kept pace with the growing
demands resulting from urbanization. Within agriculture, Government's
development objectives are to: (a) increase both the productivity and the
acreage of export crops so as to increase foreign exchange earnings and
maintain their competitive position in export markets; (b) diversify output
of export crops; (c) increase production of food crops, particularly of those
for which demand for imports have risen rapidly; and (d) scatter its different
programs along regional lines so as to raise incomes and living standards in
the poorer parts of the country and reduce regional income disparities. To
attain these objectives, Government strategy consists of: (a) implementing
projects to increase cocoa and coffee output and productivity, such as the
second cocoa project approved by the Bank in 1975 (para 2.05); (b) adopting
measures to improve forest reserves management; (c) implementing regionwide
rural development projects in the poorer parts of the country; and (d) execu-
ting diversification projects such as oil palm, rubber, sugar, and rice.



- 5 -
E. The Oil Palm and Coconut Sector
Oil Palm Development
2.13       In the early 1960's, Government initiated an oil palm development
program concentrated in the southeast of the country. The SODEPALM Group was
created in 1963 to carry it out. The program was supported by the European
Development Fund (FED), the European Investment Bank (BEI), the Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and the Bank (Loans 611, 612, 613, 759, 760,
and 1036-IVC). The country presently has about 81,000 ha of oil palm planta-
tions of which about 71,000 ha have been planted under the program. Annual
production of palm oil increased from 52,000 tons in 1969 to 162,000 tons in
1975; exports grew from 2,000 tons te 108,200 tons in the same period. By
1985 the Ivory Coast is expected to produce about 325,000 tons of palm oil per
year, exporting about two-thirds which would account for about 4% of total
world trade in palm oil.
2.14       For both its oil palm and coconut programs, the Government has used
a system whereby industrial estates, including processing facilities, were set
up and then were supplemented by outgrower plantings. The industrial estates
provided the outgrowers with the necessary infrastructure and services essen-
tial for efficient production. Under this concept, nine development districts
have been established east of the Sassandra River, each containing a cluster
of estate plantings, accounting for about 60% of the total, with outgrowers
accounting for the balance, and a palm oil mill. The Government plans ulti-
mately to achieve the same mix with its development scheme in the Southwest
region.
Coconut Development
2.15       Since 1969, coconut development has been carried out simultaneously
with the oil palm program, and with financial assistance from external sources
(para 2.13). SODEPALM is carrying out a 20,000 ha coconut program in line
with the schedule envisaged during Bank appraisals in 1969 and 1971. Project
plantings would substantially exhaust the coconut potential of the zone east
of the Sassandra River. In the beginning, difficulties were met in implement-
ing the outgrower program; but they have been largely overcome through pro-
viding more incentives to farmers. Establishment of the coconut estates is
satisfactory, with investment costs generally close to appraisal estimates.
Production began on a small scale in 1974 (660 ha), and 130,000 tons of copra
equivalent are expected for 1985, a negligible percentage of world coconut
trade.
Institutions Involved in the Sector
2.16       SODEPALM (Societe pour le Developpement et l'Exploitation du Palmier
a Huile) was created in 1963 as a statutory corporation (Societe d'Etat)
to carry out Government's plans for development of the oil palm and coconut
sector. It was wholly-owned by Government and its original capital was CFAF



- 6 -
50 million. During its first three years, SODEPALM4 was solely engaged in the
development of oil palm and coconut plantations, of both its own estates and
the related outgrower components.
2.17      In 1966, when the first plantings were near maturity and substan-
tial processing investments were required, Government decided on a corporate
change which had three goals: (i) to involve private investors in the
venture; (ii) to set up a separate entity responsible for processing and for
acquiring expertise in that field; and, (iii) to make the operation more
profit conscious. Thus in 1969 two new companies were created and joined to
SODEPALM:  PALMINDUSTRIE, an industrial component, and PALMIVOIRE, a management
component. Private investment was brought in by the sale of shares in the
two new companies, both to foreign and Ivorian companies, and to individuals.
2.18      SODEPALM remained sole owner of all estate plantations, but en-
trusted PALMIVOIRE with their management; PALMINDUSTRIE became the sole owner
of all the oil palm mills and other industrial installations, but entrusted
PALMIVOIRE with their management; PALMIVOIRE was responsible for providing
the personnel to satisfactorily carry out its mandates. The interconnection
took the form of a contract, called an "Association in Participation".
SODEPALM's outgrower component, both coconut and oil palm, remained outside
the Participation as a responsibility of SODEPALM alone. A formula was
devised for the allocation of profits. PALMIVOIRE received a fixed manage-
ment fee from the two other companies, prior to any distribution, as well
as a small percentage of such profits.
2.19      The capital structure of the companies was as follows in 1976:
PALMIVOIRE      PALMINDUSTRIE      SODEPALM
CFAF million
I.  Ivory Coast Government      26.8  (40%)   2,430   (72.4%)    400  (100%)
II. Private Companies and
Private Banking
Interests                   26.8  (40%)      620   (18.4%)      -
III.  Ivorian Private Groups
(mainly SONAFI)             13.6  (20%)      310    (9.2%)      -
Total in CFAF million       67.2 (100%)   3,360  (100%)         400  (100%)
2.20      At the same time Government involved CSSPPA (Caisse de Stabilisation
et de Soutien des Prix des Productions Agricoles) in the oil palm sector.
CSSPPA applied a unique "Revenue - Stabilization" formula that was in force
until 1975 and had the purpose of levelling-off price fluctuations from one
year to another, without guaranteeing any minimum price.



- 7 -
2.21      The group of companies was quite successful.  By September 1975,
the date of their latest audited balance sheet, achieved investments totalled
CFAF 46.4 billion (US$189 million). Finance came from equity (including
grants and subsidies); 15%; self-generated funds (profits and amortization
funds): 32%; and, long- and medium-term loans: 53%. Since the organization
of the Group, it is estimated that Government received from this group of
companies, through profit, taxes and dividends, approximately CFAF 10 billion
(US$40.8 million); and through CSSPPA (para 2.20), another CFAF 10 billion.
2.22      In its purview of this experience, Government arrived at the view
that the role of private interests -- both their capital and technological
participation -- had been negligible. Rather, the achievements in the oil
palm sector were judged to be due to SODEPALM's efficient operation, aided
by the research work done by IRHO before and after the creation of SODEPALM
and high level of world prices.
2.23      To strengthen its control over the sector, the Government decided,
in 1974, to make SODEPALI again responsible for all the group's operations.
PA2IIVOIRE has been dissolved and private shares bought out by the Govern-
ment on negotiated terms which were considered satisfactory by the various
co-lenders involved in SODEPALM's operations. Private interests in PALMINDUSTRIE
were also bought out but the company now 100% Government-owned will continue
owning industrial and processing facilities which will be rented to SODEPALM.
2.24      In parallel with the corporate changes, the Government decided
to transfer SODEPALM's marketing responsibilities to the stabilization fund
(CSSPPA). Under the new arrangement all revenues accruing to CSSPPA from
the oil palm and coconut sectors, will be earmarked for the operating and
expansion of these subsectors, including any ancillary activities that
SODEPALM may carry out. The CSSPPA will maintain a special account which
will be credited with the proceeds from the oil palm and coconut sector.
The price paid by CSSPPA for SODEPALM's produce will be established in advance
of a crop year and will cover the operating costs including depreciation for
the replacement of assets of less than five years' life, and the debt service
which would be guaranteed by the Government, regardless of production and
world market prices. These latter amounts would be paid by CSSPPA to SODEPALM
twice per year so as to allow SODEPALM to meet its annual debt service obli-
gation operating cost would be paid at the time of the delivery of oil to
CSSPPA. The price will also include a quality incentive component based on
the difference between the actual and the price of standard quality. Depre-
ciation of assets of more than five years' life will be credited by CSSPA to
an amortization account held by the CAA and placed at the disposal of SODEPALM/
Palmindustrie upon decisions taken by their respective Boards and responsible
Ministries that such funds are required for capital expenditures.
2.25      These changes in the corporate structure and marketing arrange-
ments were exhaustively discussed with the various co-lenders, including
the Bank, over the past two years. The co-lenders principle concern was to
ensure that the operational efficiency of SODEPALI, which had traditionally
reached a high standard, was not impaired. They also sought to ensure that
the financial integrity of the enterprise would remain sound, thereby enabl-
ing SODEPALM both to continue to meet its outstanding debt servicing obliga-
tions and continue to be considered a suitable borrower for future loans.



- 8 -
Although the Bank and the other co-lenders had initial reservations about
the new arrangements, they now feel that the new measures, as finalized by
a recent Presidential decree, will allow SODEPALM to meet the criteria of a
viable borrower. The necessary changes in the legal documents governing the
Bank's existing relationship with SODEPALM have been incorporated in a pro-
posed Agreement Amending Previous Agreements which was agreed upon in sub-
stance with the other co-lenders. Conditions of effectiveness would be
that (i) the decree is published and entered into effect; and (ii) Govern-
ment, SODEPALM and Palmindustrie have ratified the agreement amending pre-
vious loan agreements.
2.26      The prices set for the 1976/77 campaign are expected to be adequate
to maintain the SODEPALM group financing: they are set at CFAF 70,723 (US$289)
FOB for palm oil and CFAF 82,555 (US$337) for copra. Total cost to the
stabilization fund, including debt service and amortization provision, would
be equivalent per ton to US$400 for palm oil and US$1,317 for copra. On the
basis of current world market prices, the loss on the small production of
copra (8,200 t) be largely compensated by a surplus from palm oil marketing
operations (160,000 t).
F. Achievements under the Previous Oil Palm and
Coconut Projects
2.27      The Bank has financed three projects with SODEPALM since 1969, with
six loans (611, 612, 613, 759, 760 and 1036) in total amounting to US$26.7 mil-
lion. Investments carried out under Loans 611, 612 and 759 are now completed
and have been evaluated by O.E.D. recently. Four of these loans provide
finance for 9,520 ha of oil palm estates, 11,500 ha of coconut estates, 21,500
ha of outgrower oil palm and 7,500 ha of outgrower coconut; two loans (612,
759) financed two new oil mills at Ehenia and Dabou, with respective capacities
of 50 and 40 tons of palm fruit per hour.
2.28      Project implementation has been highly satisfactory and all original
physical targets have been achieved or exceeded. Planting programs under
these projects would be completed as scheduled in 1977; the two oil mills have
been commissioned, in 1971 and 1972, and are operating satisfactorily. Con-
servative yield projections have generally been exceeded and, despite cost
overruns due to inflation factors and some necessary social investment, the
expected rates of return are higher than anticipated at appraisal (about 13%
for oil palm estate and 17/20% for oil palm outgrowers).
2.29      These satisfactory results are due to various reasons, such as:
availability of free land; solid back-up by an outstanding research organi-
zation; and excellent management within the SODEPALM Group. Another impor-
tant cause of project success was the commercial basis on which Government
allowed the company to be run. Although this has recently been changed (see
para. 2.25), the results achieved to date were not affected. This success
confirms the soundness of Government's policy choice to promote the develop-
ment of nucleus estates to support surrounding small growers and this pol-
icy is to be continued under the project.



- 9 -
2.30      Managed only since 1975 by an Ivorian General Manager, SODEPALM
continues to use the services of a large number of expatriate staff. Early
in 1974, SODEPALM adopted a training program with a view to promote pro-
gressive ivorization of its staff. Since then, the proportion of expatriates
in managerial and technical positions has been decreasing regularly without
affecting the overall success of the operation and training efforts are still
in progress.
G. The Southwest Region
2.31      Government's development strategy for the region derives from plan-
ning done by ARSO (para 2.11). The development of this largely unpopulated
area began with the construction of port-related infrastructure to create an
alternative to the Abidjan facilities. Development plans include schemes to
improve the exploitation of the tropical forest and establish agricultural
plantations together with the development of social infrastructure to attract
farm families, in particular those from the Savannah Region displaced after
the construction of the Kossou dam. Rubber, oil palm and coconut are the
only immediate opportunities to develop agriculture in that region until these
projects have attracted enough population to be supported with future rural
development projects. Characteristics of the region and an outline of in-
cipient land-using projects are given at Annex III, Appendix I.
III. THE PROJECT
A. The Project Area
Ecological Conditions in the Project Area
3.01      The project covers an area about 30 km wide and 50 km long directly
northward of the city of Tabou, in the Southwest Region (Annex III, Appendix
1).  Vegetation varies from scrubland and light forest areas, mostly near
the coast, to dense rain forests inland. The area has been selectively
logged in the past, and there is no evidence that commercial quantities of
timber still exist. The land is mostly rolling and, in terms of plantable
areas, is divided into a large number of fingerlike parcels defined by slopes,
ravines, marshy areas, and unsuitable soil textures. Soils proposed for coco-
nut planting, which are closer to the coast, contain a proportion of sandy
leached soils which are suitable only for coconuts, while the plantable soils
in the areas allocated for oil palm tend to be more clayey. Fertility defi-
ciencies would be corrected by fertilizer applications (hybrid coconuts, in
particular, require heavy doses). The project area was reserved for coconuts
and oil palm because rainfall, averaging about 2,000 mm/year, is favorable
and well distributed; the dry season usually lasts only one month (January),
and sunshine is adequate.



- 10 -
Transport and Communications
3.02      The project area is situated astride existing dirt roads in the
public network which connect Tabou with the northern part of the country,
and which, if improved, could give a convenient passageway for vehicles and
equipment to the vicinity of project work sites. Assurances was obtained
from Government that funds would be made available to improve the access
to plantation sites before June 30, 1978. Central services such as heavy
maintenance facilities would be located on the Glike coconut plantation (para
3.10), the first plantation to be planted because of its proximity to Tabou
and the existing communication system. Tabou does not have a usable harbor,
though light craft provide some service via the beach. The San Pedro port,
some 90 km up the coast, already has facilities for handling oil palm produce
from the SODEPALM operations to the north, and Government intends to expand
these to handle the project output. The public roads would serve project
needs, including the transport of products to San Pedro. The processing
facilities will be located in the vicinity of the existing network of roads.
An adequate public airstrip exists at Tabou and would serve the project;
considerable use of aircraft is foreseen for transport of personnel and light
material. Under the project, radio equipment would be installed on all four
plantations to interconnect them with the SODEPALM radio network.
Agricultural Development Planning
3.03      The project area is within the Southwest Region where other develop-
ment schemes are ongoing or planned (Annex III, Appendix 1). The necessity
for an appropriate rate of deforestation has been brought to the attention
of Government, specifically taking into consideration land-use planning and
ecological imperatives; an assurance obtained during negotiations stipulates
that such a scheme be submitted within one year of loan signature.
B. Summary Project Description
3.04      The project is part of a four-year planting program begun in
late 1975 and would cover a three-year slice beginning with land prepara-
tion undertaken in 1975 for plantings completed after June 1976. It would
consist of:
(a)  preparation of about 18,500 ha for the creation of oil palm
and coconut estates;
(b)  establishment of about 8,000 ha of oil palm and 7,500 ha of
coconut estates;
(c)  provision of infrastructure for both estates, including feeder
roads, housing, social, medical and administrative buildings,
store sheds, vehicles and equipment;



- il -
(d)  establishment of an outgrowers program covering about 2,000 ha
coconut and 500 ha of oil palm plantations on land cleared by
the farmers;
(e)  provision to farmers of loans, extension services and
infrastructure; and
(f)  provisions for a Project Directorate, including offices,
housing, vehicles, equipment and operating funds.
The project would exclude the processing facilities, which will be constructed
during the four-year program. Assurance has been obtained from Government
that it would provide for processing facilities when the plantations under
the project come to maturity.
3.05      Planting targets would be flexible under the Government's program
to allow transfers to or from the outgrower program, depending on the rate
of participation by outgrowers. During the project period, this provision
would affect only the coconut plantings; in terms of this component, the best
estimate is a minimum of 1,000 ha over three years, expandable to 3,000 ha at
the expense of the industrial plantings. Overall, the larger program over the
four years aims at an outgrower component of 30%.
3.06      Due to the cut-up nature of the project area (para 3.01), the
estate and outgrower plantings would be more intermingled than is usually
the case with such projects. Taken together, the plantings would be on
contiguous blocks along the Cavally River, on the Tabou-Ologuio axis. The
industrial plantings would be on four estate blocks.
C. Detailed Features
Estates
3.07      Planting Programs.  Oil palm and coconuts would be planted on four
plantation estates. Oil palm estates would be inland at Iboke and Dewake;
coconut estates would be at Glike and Nero, nearer to the coast, where eco-
logical conditions are more favorable for this tree:
Oil Palm                          Coconut
Iboke               Dewake            Glike         Nero
PY 1       ---                  ---              2,000         --
PY 2     3,000                  ---              1,500        1,750
PY 3     2,500                2,500                ---         2,250
The coconut targets assume an average rate of outgrowers development outlined
in para 3.12, and adjustments would be made in the light of the success with
outgrower plantings (para 3.05).



- 12 -
3.08      Land.  The land to be planted by industrial estates would be ob-
tained from the Government and made available for purposes of the project.
There would be no encroachment by estate plantings on land presently being
cultivated. An assurance were obtained that facilities and title to or
rights in respect of land required for the carrying out and operation of
the project would be provided within one year of loan effectiveness.
3.09      Investment and Maintenance.  These would be essentially the same
for coconut and oil palm. Land would be cleared mechanically; then trees
and debris would be windrowed and burned to prevent a build-up of beetles
which could seriously damage the young palms. SODEPALM would carry out the
land clearing by force account, using procedures that have been proved on
SODEPALM's east-of-Sassandra estates. SODEPALM's civil works unit already
owns suitable equipment and has developed appropriate technology, in partic-
ular to avoid top soil removal. Experience indicates that land clearing by
force account is cheaper than by contractors, most of them being specialized
in road construction rather than land clearing. In addition this ensures a
better coordination of work in the field (land clearing with access roads,
first, planting and road improvement thereafter). Seeds would be produced
at IRHO seed gardens and germinated either there or at the project nursery.
Seedlings would be transferred to plastic sacks for ease of handling, and
planted one to each hole; each plant would be surrounded by a wire mesh
shield to protect the young plants from rodents. A cover crop of pueraria,
with seeds grown by SODEPALM, would be planted to control erosion.
3.10      Maintenance of each year's estate plantings goes on for three years.
Funds for this purpose would be provided for only during the years of Bank
disbursements. The maintenance requirements of the crop are small but impor-
tant: circle weeding of the cover crop; replacement of dead plants; fertil-
izer applications and pest control. Fertilizer would be applied annually in
accordance with the results of foliar analysis.
3.11      Planting Material.  For oil palm, both estates and outgrowers would
plant improved seeds developed by IRHO, which are giving excellent results
in the southeast. For coconut, both estate and outgrower plantings would use
hybrid varieties selected and grown by IRHO at its Port Bouet station.  The
basic cross is between the Dwarf palm and the Tall palm, giving a hybrid palm
with very desirable characteristics. Recently, there has arisen a question
as to the resistance of these hybrid varieties to Kaincope disease, a lethal
"yellowing wilt" that attacks Tall coconut varieties, and which is a problem
in West Africa producer countries such as Ghana, i.e., a relatively long dis-
tance from the proposed project. A judgment as to the risks involved depends
on the opinion of IRHO researchers, who have closely followed all evidence on
the disease resistance of the hybrids; the risk cannot be ignored or avoided
but it is minimal and well worth taking, considering the potential benefits.
Supporting information is at Annex III, Appendix 2.



- 13 -
Outgrowers
3.12      Planting Program and Location of Plantings.  The planting program
would be divided between oil palm and coconut outgrowers as follows:
PY 1    PY 2    PY 3      Total
----------------ha------------
Oil Palm                      -      200       300       500
Coconut                     200      550    1,250      2,000
Project phasing favors the enlistment of coconut outgrowers in the three-year
period. The figures for coconut plantings represent "average" expectations as
to the rate that farmers would become participants in the outgrower program.
To allow flexibility for uncertainties entailed in attracting farmers to a new
program in an out-of-the way region, certain areas would be "optional" either
for outgrowers or estates. Plantings would be made in conjunction with all
four of the industrial plantations, i.e. oil palm in the vicinity of Dewake
and Iboke, and coconut in the vicinity of Glike and Nero. Assuming the
initial plantings of 1 ha per family, the three-year project would involve
some 500-1,000 families, who would eventually increase their holdings to an
average of about 4 ha.
3.13      Land.  Most of the land would be provided by the state and would
be included under the arrangements described in para. 3.08; the balance, by
communities whose usufruct rights to particular parcels of land would be
recognized. This tenure system, described at Appendix 3 of Annex III, has
proved successful under the previous Bank-financed oil palm and coconut
project in the Ivory Coast.
3.14      Communications, Infrastructure and Equipment.  Since the outgrower
plantings would be geographically intermingled with the industrial planta-
tions, there would be no necessity for constructing new roads specially for
the outgrower plantings. The project would have to provide for the housing
and equipment of SODEPALM's outgrower service staff.
3.15      Development and Maintenance.  Only suitable terrain would be
accepted for outgrower plantings. Both for oil palm and coconut plantings,
land would be cleared by its holder. Planting material and maintenance would
be the same as for the estates (para 3.09). Labor requirements (Annex IV)
would not be excessive in terms of family labor, though farmers would have
the option of hiring casual labor. Seedlings, cover crop seed, wire mesh,
fertilizer and cash equal to the value of the labor required prior to the
first crop (valued at CFAF 265 or US$1.10 per manday) would be supplied on
credit to the outgrower by SODEPALM (Annex IV), and SODEPALM would supervise
all operations.
Labor
3.16      The project labor requirements would be relatively modest, reaching
a peak of about 1,600 field workers in Year 3. The initial recruitment of



- 14 -
labor from within the area has exceeded expectations and about 500 workers
were already employed early in 1976; this bodes well for the project. How-
ever, since the region is thinly populated, and since the project would be
competing for labor with other plantations in the region, it may not be
possible to meet all requirements locally. As in the case of most estate
developments in the Ivory Coast, field workers may have to be attracted from
neighboring countries such as Upper Volta. Recruiting and holding workers
have become more difficult in recent years, and the estates would therefore
have housing and social facilities of a standard that has been adopted for
the more recently built estates elsewhere in the country. Generally workers
arrive without families, returning after a year or so to fetch their families
or to marry. Consequently, a high labor turnover is normal during the first
few years, but the situation usually stabilizes as the ratio of families to
bachelors increases. There would, however, remain some uncertainty about the
labor supply. The estates would need field workers as follows:
1976            1977            1978             1979
500           1,500           1,600           2,000
Assurances were obtained from the Government that it would take measures to
ensure that an adequate number of field workers would be available to the
project without impairing other projects in the region.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Directorate
4.01      The project would be executed by SODEPALM (para 2.16) under the
management of a Project Directorate consisting of a Project Manager, a Senior
Administrative Officer and adequate Plantation and Technical Administrative
staff. The Project Manager, an expatriate already on duty, is qualified for
this important position. Provisions for construction of permanent offices
in the project area are included in the project cost.
4.02      The organizational arrangements of the project management and their
relationship to the SODEPALM general management are defined in a Chart in
Annex III, Table 6. The project management would make full use of SODEPALM's
supply organization to achieve savings by bulk buying. It would also use
the services of the civil work department of SODEPALM which would carry out
the clearing and land preparation of the areas to be planted under the
project.
4.03      The Project Directorate, currently located in Abidjan, would be
established in the Southwest region as soon as required. During negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained that SODEPALM would consult the Bank before
March 31, 1978, to discuss the timing of the Directorate's transfer to the
project areas.



- 15 -
B. Project Organization
4.04      Each of the four estate plantations would have an Estate Manager
acting under the direct orders of the Project Manager. In the initial
phase, the first plantation would be provided with two available managers -
one with responsibility and the other preparing to shift to another planta-
tion.
4.05      The smallholders program would have two Ivorian Division Chiefs,
also under the direct orders of the Project Manager. With the development
of the outgrower program, Ivorian Section Chiefs would be appointed to
operate under the orders and supervision of the Division Chiefs.
4.06      Adequate nurseries have already been created, and are the responsi-
bility of the Project Manager, who would also supervise whatever research and
experimentation that would be required.
4.07      A Senior Administrative Officer, whose terms of employment and qual-
ifications would be acceptable to the Bank, would be appointed. Any changes
in the incumbents of the posts of Project Manager and/or Administrative
Officer would be made only with Bank's approval. Assurances to this effect
have been obtained from the Government.
4.08      A mechanical workshop, set up by the Civil Works Department of
SODEPALM for purposes of the land clearing operations, will be transformed
into a central workshop serving the whole project area. Adequate provisions
for this workshop have been provided in the project cost.
4.09      Each of the four estates would have a central village and two
satellite villages with all housing provided under the project. In each of
the central villages, a supermarket, a social and medical center would be
erected and each satellite village would have a social and medical outpost.
A school would be built in each of the four villages. Provision has been made
for the buildings of the main medical centers, outposts, and schools, includ-
ing housing for the teachers and doctors who would be made available by Gov-
ernment. Nurses, assistant nurses, and social assistants salaries (and
their housing) are included in project costs.
4.10      All the medical and social facilities provided under the project
would also serve the outgrowers and their families, and, as is customary in
the Ivory Coast, the local population within the project area.
C. Outgrower Selection, Size of Holdings and Credit Arrangements
4.11      Participation in the grower scheme would be conditional on the
farmer's agreement to follow, throughout the development period, the tech-
nical advice provided by SODEPALM. The agreement between the two parties
would be essentially the same as the ones approved previously by the Bank.



- 16 -
4.12      Members of existing villages would be encouraged to become out-
growers, and it is expected that established residents of the area would
form a nucleus program. Selection of participants would be done by the
local SODEPALM agent in consultation with the village chief. Participation
would not preclude a village from other economic pursuits such as growing
food crops (e.g., rice) for subsistence and sale to the plantations, supply
of labor for plantations and other outlets. Some village leaders have al-
ready indicated interest in the program. Details of selection arrangements,
such as maximum size of individual holding, would be worked out on the basis
of conditions, including the nature of village participation, and SODEPALM's
considerable experience east of the Sassandra River.
4.13      As under the Third Oil Palm Project, outgrowers would receive
nominally interest-free credits from SODEPALM. Details of the outgrower
financing scheme are included in Annex IV. The guiding principle would be
continued that producer prices be fixed so that Government would earn a
reasonable financial return on its investment in the outgrower program. On
the basis of the price assumptions used in the project cash flows, the return
to Government from this investment is estimated at about 18%.
D. SODEPALM Finances
4.14      Until September 1975, SODEPALM's financial situation had been satis-
factory (see Annex 2, Tables 1 and 2). Up to that time, the SODEPALM Group
had generated surpluses amounting to US$51 million, which was used to finance
part of its investment program (US$48.1 million) and to increase its working
capital from US$15.4 million to US$18.3 million. Since then, the new market-
ing and payment procedures introduced by Government (paras 2.25 and 2.26) have
changed SODEPALM's financial position. While these measures are acceptable in
principle, they had not been entirely implemented at the end of FY76, when the
Stabilization Fund still owed SODEPALM about US$10 million for 1975/76 and
US$8 million for the prepayment of the 1976/77 fiscal year expenditures.
These arrears, together with delays in the signing of BEI and IBRD loans for
the copra/kernel oil mill and the Southwest oil palm and coconut development,
respectively, resulted in financial constraints. According to a provisional
balance sheet at the end of September 1976, SODEPALM used short-term overdraft
facilities (US$24.7 million) to finance operational activities, including
prefinance for the above-mentioned investments (US$7.6 million).
4.15      However, the Stabilization Fund has now paid SODEPALM all of its
outstanding debts and Government has committed itself to finance retroactively
project expenditures incurred in CY 1975 and 1976, of CFAF 4.2 billion (about
US$17.1 million) including finance for the proposed project (US$10 million)
(para 5.09). These payments together with the proceeds of the proposed IBRD
loan would be sufficient to insure SODEPALM's ability to carry out its invest-
ment program until 1980. The Oilpalm and Coconut Sectors would begin only in
1978 to generate enough funds to finance investments programmed on the basis
of world market prices in line with Economics Department projections.



- 17 -
4.16      In the light of this information, Government has given an assurances
to make such funds available, or seek adequate financing, for the purpose of
providing SODEPALM with the required funds to complete its investment programs,
including non-oil palm activities. This investment plan for SODEPALM, covering
the next four years, with an indication of sources of financing, was submitted
by Government to the Bank and found acceptable (Annex II, Table 2).
4.17      Government has published its 1976/77 buying price for oil palm prod-
ucts and for coconut products. The prices have been found satisfactory by
the Bank. An assurance was obtained that Government would ensure that pro-
ceeds of sales of oil palm and coconut products would be adequate to cover
all operating expenses and debt services of these two respective sectors,
and would be used solely for these purposes. Furthermore, the Bank would
be informed of these prices before they become effective.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
5.01      Project costs during the three-year investment period are estimated
at CFAF 10.0 billion (US$40.6 million), of which the foreign exchange component
would be CFAF 6.2 billion (US$25.3 million) or 62%.
5.02      Government has indicated its intention to continue to exempt all
imports needed for the project from import duties during the development
period. Cost estimates, based on January 1976 prices, include indirect taxes
amounting to CFAF 1,076 million (US$4.4 million) or 11% of total project
costs, and contain the following contingencies:
(a) physical contingencies of 10% on land clearing and building
costs and 5% on all other costs, except labor;
(b) price contingencies compounded as follows: for civil
works, construction and mechanical land clearing,
13% in 1976 and 12% in 1977 and 1978; for vehicles and
equipment, 9% in 1976 and 8% in 1977 and 1978; and for
all remaining costs, including loans to outgrowers, 10%
for each year; these contingencies have been calculated
on base cost estimates plus physical contingencies in
any year, compounding estimated price-increase factors
in prior years and one-half of the price increase
factor in the year concerned.
Total contingencies calculated on the foregoing basis amount to 22% of the
total project costs or 28% of base line cost estimates. Price contingencies
amount to 19% of base line cost estimates and physical contingencies. De-
tailed cost estimates are in Annex 6, and are summarized in the table next
page.



- 18 -
IVORY COAST
Fourth Oil Palm and Coconut Project
Project Cost Estimates
CFAF million           US$ million       Foreign
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Exchange
I.   COCONUT ESTATES
Land preparation
Land clearing and
access roads               352  1,056  1,408   1.4    4.4    5.8           75
Land development
costs /1                   476    317    793   1.9    1.3    3.2           40
Estate Operating Costs        123    133    256   0.5    0.5    1.0          52
Investments
Vehicles                     8      76      84   0.1    0.3    0.4         90
Buildings                  108    163    271   0.4    0.7    1.1           60
Installations
and Equipment               47    111    158   0.2    0.4    0.6           70
TOTAL                 1,114  1,856  2,970   4.5    7.6   12.1          63
II. OIL PALM ESTATES
Land Preparation
Land clearing and
access roads               559  1,674  2,233   2.3    6.8    9.1           75
Land development
costs /1                   477    205    682   1.9    0.9    2.8           30
Estate Operating Costs        128    154    282   0.5    0.6    1.1          54
Investments
Vehicles                    23    212    235   0.1    0.9    1.0           90
Buildings                  269    403    672   1.1    1.6    2.7           60
Installations
and Equipment               45    104    149   0.2    0.4    0.6           70
TOTAL                 1,501  2,752  4,253   6.1   11.2   17.3          65
III. OUTGROWERS PROGRAM
Extension:  Staff           22      -      22   0.1      -      0.1        -
Investments    21      21      42   0.1    0.1    0.2         50
Loans:       Inputs         116     77    193   0.5    0.3    0.8          40
Cash Credit    97      -      97   0.3      -      0.3        -
TOTAL                   256      98    354   1.0    0.4    1.4         29
IV. PROJECT DIRECTORATE
Staff                       25      47     72   0.1    0.2    0.3          65
Investments                 35      54     89   0.2    0.2    0.4          61
Operational expenses         il     10     21    -      0.1    0.1         48
TOTAL                    71    111    182   0.3    0.5    0.8          63
V.   TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
Project Base Costs       2,942  4,817  7,759  11.9   19.7   31.6           62
Physical Contin-
gencies                    203    397    600   0.9    1.6    2.5           64
Expected price
increases                  594    998  1,592   2.5    4.0    6.5          62
TOTAL EXPECTED COST OF PROJECT 3,739  6,212  9,951  15.3   25.3   40.6            62
/1   Cost of planting, including labor, and maintenance during project period.



- 19 -
5.03      Government intends to authorize BNDA (Banque Nationale pour le
Developpement de l'Agriculture) to assist in financing part of the project
through a loan of CFAF 500 million (US$2.0 million) to SODEPALM (Annex 7).
Satisfactory assurances from the Government regarding this arangement would
be a condition of effectiveness.
B. Proposed Financing
5.04      The project would, therefore, be financed jointly by Government,
BNDA, and the Bank, and the proposed financing would be as follows (net of
taxes):
IBRD     BNDA     Government      Tota_
US$ m    US$ m       US$ m        US$ m
Coconut Estates
Land Clearing and Roads               1.9      -           3.2           5.1
Agricultural Costs                    1.5     0.8          0.6           2.9
Estates Operating Costs                -       -           0.9           0.9
Buildings, Equipment and Vehicles   1.1        -           0.7           1.8
Oil Palm Estates
Land Clearing and Access Roads        5.6      -           2.4           8.0
Agricultural Costs                    1.5     0.8          0.3           2.6
Estates Operating Costs                -       -           1.0           1.0
Buildings, Equipment and Vehicles   2.4        -           1.4           3.8
Outgrowers Program                    1.1      -           0.2           1.3
Project Directorate                   0.4      -           0.3           0.7
Total Base Costs                     15.5     1.6         11.0          28.1
Unallocated                           4.5     0.4          3.2           8.1
Total                          20.0      2.0        14.2          36.2
Percentage of Total Net of Taxes   55%         6%         39%           100%
5.05      The Bank Loan of US$20 million would be made to SODEPALM for a term
of 20 years, including a four-and-one-half year grace period, at the prevailing
interest rate estimated to be 8.5%. The loan would finance 55% of project
costs excluding taxes, or 49% of total project costs, and would cover about
80% of foreign exchange costs.
5.06      The Bank Loan is estimated to be disbursed over a two-year period.
The balance of project costs would be financed by Government on a yearly basis
and an assurance to this effect was received; a condition of loan effective-
ness would be that adequate financing for the first year had been provided.



- 20 -
5.07      All the amounts disbursed under the project and for plantation
maintenance and production after the project period (para. 5.06) would be
passed on as grants to SODEPALM, except for the loan component of these
amounts which would be reimbursed to the lenders by SODEPALM under the new
financial arrangements introduced in 1976 (para. 4.17).
5.08      Farmer loans would be disbursed by SODEPALM according to arrange-
ments for outgrowers, detailed in Annex IV. This Annex shows the repayment
schedules for each group of outgrowers. SODEPALM would deduct the amounts
due from the proceeds of its purchase of oil palm fruit and coconuts.
C. Retroactive Financing
5.09      Government would finance SODEPALM's costs incurred in 1976 (about
US$10 million), mainly of land-clearing for the first plantation year. How-
ever, the Government has asked that expenditures incurred on the project
prior to the signature of the Bank loan and after January 1, 1977 be financed
retroactively. Therefore, retroactive financing of up to US$500,000 for ex-
penditures incurred after January 1, 1977, covering costs for buildings,
equipment, vehicles, extension services and farmers credits, would be in-
cluded in the project.
D. Procurement
5.10      All contracts of US$100,000 equivalent or more for the procurement
of vehicles and equipment (totaling about US$3.1 million) would be made
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Contracts for goods and services costing less than $100,000 equivalent may
be procured under local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Bank, provided however that the aggregate of the cost of all goods and ser-
vices so procured shall not exceed US$1.0 million equivalent. Contracts
for buildings with a total value of US$5.2 million, involving several opera-
tions scattered across the project area, are not large enough to attract for-
eign interest and would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures which are accept-
able to the Bank. Civil works consisting of land clearing and estate feeder
roads (totaling US$19.1 million), and land development of US$7.8 million
would be carried out by SODEPALM under force account and reimbursed against
completion certificates; SODEPALM has the equipment needed for this work
and has demonstrated that it can conduct it more efficiently and at lower
cost than other contractors. The remaining project costs (US$5.4 million)
would be mainly for staff, labor, farmer's loans and operating expenses.
5.11      The proposal that SODEPALM carry out land clearing by force account
stems from excessively high tenders received from international bidders in
1971 for the first SODEPALM project (Ln. 611-IVC). Under the second and
third projects (Lns. 759, 760 and 1036-IVC), when force account was recom-
mended, SODEPALM cleared about 15,000 ha at about US$500 per ha, close to
half the international bids received in 1971. For the proposed project,



- 21 -
SODEPALM anticipates that their costs will be below those offered in 1971.
SODEPALM has an inherent advantage compared with international bidders
inasmuch as it has specialized equipment available on location, clears land
under other Government mandates, and has extensive experience in this field.
Furthermore, land clearing for rubber estates managed by private enterprises
continue to be executed under force account.
E. Disbursement
5.12      The Bank loan would be disbursed to cover:
(a) 75% of land clearing and access road costs of oil palm and coconut
estates for Years 2 and 3 on the basis of maximum cost per ha of
CFAF 192,000 and CFAF 203,000 for coconut and oilpalm estate re-
spectively in 1976 terms (US$7.5 million);
(b) 60% of planting and maintenance cost of oil palm and coconut estates
in Years 2 and 3 (US$3.0 million);
(c) 65% of total expenditures or 100% of foreign exchange costs of
buildings, equipment, and vehicles of the oil palm and coconut
estates (US$3.5 million);
(d) 80% of all costs of the outgrowers program including loans in kind
and in cash (US$1.1 million);
(e)  80% of all costs of the Project Directorate (US$0.4 million); and
(f) US$4.5 million would be unallocated.
A schedule of estimated disbursements is at Annex VIII. Disbursement for
(a), (b), (d) and operating cost in (e) woud be against certificates of
expenditures, the documentation for which is not submitted for review but
would be retained by SODEPALM for inspection by Bank project supervision
missions. Disbursement for (c) would be fully documented.
F. Accounts and Audit
5.13      SODEPALM would keep records consistent with sound accounting
practices and adequate to reflect its operations and financial situation.
These records would also show the accounts of the respective project com-
ponents separately and the position of outgrowers' loans and repayments.
Government would appoint independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and their
reports would be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably
request. These would be sent to the Bank, not later than four months after
the closing of the financial year. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations.



- 22 -
VI. YIELDS, OUTPUT, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Yields and Output
6.01      011 palm outgrowers are expected to obtain an average yield of 16
tons ffb/ha when their oil palm plantings are mature, nine years after plant-
ing. Actual results from existing oil palm outgrowers confirm the validity
of this estimate. For estates, as evidenced by extensive trials carried out
by IRHO, average yields of at least 18 tons/ha are expected at maturity.
Both yields would produce 22% oil and 4.4% kernel contents. These yields,
high by world standards, are made possible by the success of IRHO in pro-
ducing and testing a high yielding hybrid. When project plantings reach
full production in about 1984, their production would average 31,600 tons
of oil and 6,360 tons of kernels annually, or less than 1% of the antici-
pated world trade in these commodities at that time (Annex IX).
6.02      Coconut outgrowers are estimated to obtain, at full maturity, an
average yield of 20,500 nuts/ha. At full maturity, coconut estates would
yield 23,000 nuts/ha. These yields, high by world standards, are made possible
by the success of IRHO in producing and testing a high yielding hybrid. The
maintenance of high yields will depend on sustained fertilizer use; this would
be standard practice on the estate and outgrower plantings. Copra production
is one metric ton for 5,000 nuts and a further 250 kg of charcoal from the
shells. When project plantings reach full production in about 1987, their
production would average about 42,700 tons of copra and 10,675 tons of char-
coal annually; the copra production represents about 1.6% of the expected
world trade by that year, or 27,500 tons coconut oil equivalent.
B. Processing
6.03      The bulk of processing facilities required for project plantings
would not be needed during the Bank-loan disbursement period. Coconut plant-
ings financed under previous projects were scheduled to mature in 1976. An
adequate processing and marketing plan has recently been submitted to the Bank.
6.04      For the purposes of determining the net value of the final product
(copra and coconut charcoal), the processing costs have been estimated on the
basis of artisan methods for which figures are available (Annex V). Industrial
investments for the processing of the oil palm production would not be carried
out until 1980 and costs of such facilities are included in the financial and
economic calculations. Processing costs have been estimated on the basis of
actual operational costs of existing mills with the addition of amortization
costs based on the investments needed for the southwest. Details are at
Annex V.



- 23 -
C. Markets and Prices
6.04      Oil Palm and Kernels.  About 60% of the palm oil and all kernels
produced by project plantings would be absorbed by the growing export mar-
ket. Total world production of palm oil is estimated to be expanding at
about 9.5% annually between 1975-80 (7.1% - 1975-85), and world production
by 1985 is expected to reach about 5.9 million tons and exports 4.7 million
tons. 0f the total, the Ivory Coast would export about 200,000 tons or 4.3%.
The Bank's commodity analysts expect palm oil prices to rise from US$380/ton,
the current average price, to US$737/ton CIF Europe in 1985 - a price equiv-
alent to US$390/ton CIF Europe, in constant 1976 prices, which has been
assumed for the project production (Annex IX).
6.05      The price of palm kernel oil, which has chemical characteristics
similar to coconut oil, is projected to rise in 1976 terms from US$360/ton,
in 1976, to US$564/ton CIF Europe in 1985. It is estimated therefore that
palm kernel prices will rise from US$170/ton to US$281/ton CIF Europe by
1985, in 1976 terms. This latter price has been used for the purpose of
this project.
6.06      Copra and Coconut Oil.  While a small amount of project-produced
copra would be consumed domestically, the bulk would be exported, mostly to
Europe, either as coconut oil or unprocessed copra. Coconut oil and copra
(in tons of oil equivalent) comprised about 6.4% of total world fats and oil
production in 1971-1973. Production has expanded slowly (1.3% from 1954-57
to 1971-73, as compared with 2.6% per year for all fats and oils production).
Generally, coconuts are a poorly organized smallholder crop with a high pro-
portion of over-aged trees, and there has not been much development, with
the exception of the Philippines and the ongoing modest Bank-financed proj-
ects in Ivory Coast. The Bank forecasts that by 1980 world exports of copra
and coconut (oil equivalent) will rise from a current 1.5 million tons to
about 1.6 - 1.7 million tons, principally from increased Philippine produc-
tion. For the economic analysis of the project, a copra price of US$397/
ton CIF Europe in constant 1976 prices has been used. This is equivalent
to US$580/ton (in 1976 terms) of coconut oil, which is slightly below the
average price (8.6%) over the last three years for this commodity.
VII. FINANCIAL BENEFITS AND OUTLOOK
A. Project Cash Flow
7.01      The cash flow for the southwest program, considered as a separate
entity, has been assessed independently from SODEPALM's operations east of
the Sassandra River. The Cash Flow (Annex VII) shows a positive balance as
early as Year 8. All project costs would have been completely recovered by
Year 11, the third year after all plantings reach full maturity with a sur-
plus of CFAF 1.0 billion (US$4.0 million). From the following year on, and



- 24 -
over the next 18 years, revenues from project operation would be about CFAF
4.3 billion (US$17.5 million) yearly in terms of expected current prices.
Government would receive additional income from indirect taxes and from ex-
port duties on exported products. The total yearly revenues generated by
the project would be as follows, in current terms:
CFAF million        US$ million
From project operation                      4,282                 17.5
From taxes                                    638                  2.6
From export duties                            366                  1.5
Total                                  5,386                21.6
The Cash Flow, over a period of 30 years, shows a financial rate of return
of 16%.
B. Outgrowers Benefits
7.02      Expected benefits for outgrowers under the project have been esti-
mated from separate models for oil palm and coconut farmers (Annex IV).
7.03      Oil Palm Outgrowers.  In its outgrower operation, SODEPALM has
until recently paid outgrowers a fixed basic price of CFAF 4/kg ffb (fresh
fruit bunch), with a bonus system that enabled growers to attain, in 1975,
an average price of CFAF 8/kg ffb.  An Average price of CFAF 8/kg ffb has been
assumed for the project. Production on an outgrower's holding would begin
in the fourth year after planting, when 32 working days would be required to
maintain and harvest one hectare of oil palm; the return per manday would be
CFAF 852 (US$3.5).  This would increase to CFAF 1,845 (US$7.5) per manday for
46 work days, after debt service by Year 5, and reach a maximum of CFAF 2,339
(US$9.5) per manday, for 52 workdays, when debt service is completed in Year
13.  The return to labor employed is satisfactory compared with the official
agricultural wage of CFAF 315/day (US$1.3), including fringe benefits. Many
outgrowers would probably combine oil palms with cocoa, coffee and food crops.
The return to labor also compares favorably with the return from cocoa culti-
vation, a tree crop grown over most of the country's oil palm zone, of about
CFAF 940 (US$3.8) per manday from traditional plantings and CFAF 1,200
(US$4.9) from improved plantings. An average outgrower holding of 4 ha
would generate a total annual income after debt service of approximately
CFAF 486,600 (US$1,980), as from Year 13 after full repayment of debt. In
addition, a typical six-member family with 2-1/2 adult equivalents would be
earning about CFAF 106,000 (US$430) from the traditional farm.
7.04      Coconut Outgrowers.  In its current program east of Sassandra,
SODEPALM assures outgrowers a price of CFAF 7 per coconut, and this price
has been assumed in the southwest project. Production on an outgrower's
holding would begin in the fifth year after planting, when nine working



- 25 -
days would be required to maintain and harvest one hectare of coconut, and
when the return per manday would be CFAF 333 (US$1.40). The return per man-
day would increase to CFAF 1,619 (US$6.6) for 32 workdays, after debt service
by Year 7, and to CFAF 2,406 (US$9.8), for 50 workdays, when debt service
is completed in Year 17. The return to labor employed is satisfactory for
the reasons detailed in 7.03. Few established outgrowers in SODEPALM's pro-
gram cultivate coconut only, as most combine it with cocoa, coffee and food
crops; and this would be expected in the southwest. An average outgrower
holding of about 4 ha would generate a total annual income after debt service
of about CFAF 480,000 (US$1,960) as from Year 17 after full repayment of debt.
7.05      Conclusion.  In both cases the returns are considered satisfactory
from the viewpoints of inducing farmers to participate in the outgrower pro-
gram and of improving their standard of living.
VIII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      Primary benefits from the project would be the increased production
for export of palm oil and kernels, copra and coconut charcoal, with resultant
incremental net annual foreign exchange earnings of about US$40 million by
1986 (current terms). The project would further the Government's program
of agricultural diversification and of regional development of the Southwest.
About 1,600 full-time estate laborer jobs would be created and about 600 local
farmers would have their incomes considerably augmented.
8.02      In the economic analysis (Annex X), output values are based on ex-
pected world prices, labor cost at estimated efficiency wages and non-labor
costs have been valued at market cost net of taxes (in 1976 terms). The
resulting economic rates of return are 17% for the whole project, 16.5% for
both the oil palm and coconut estates and 30% and 23% for the oil palm and
coconut outgrowers, respectively. If costs and benefits had been adjusted
for tariff and trade distortions with a conversion factor, the "efficiency"
economic rate of return would have been 20% for the whole project. All
rates of return have low sensitivities to changes in costs or benefits --
for instance, the whole project rate of return of 21.1% falls to 17.2% or
17.9%, respectively, with a 20% fall in benefits or a 20% rise in costs.
8.03      The higher rates of return estimated for the outgrowers are substan-
tially a result of the costing of certain central infrastructure and services
entirely to the estates. As discussed in Annex X, an increase in the size
of the outgrower programs, and in particular of outgrower oil palm, would be
justified. The area ratios of the four project components have, however, been
determined on project administration and labor availabilities, constraints and
experience gained from other tree crop projects in Ivory Coast. Efforts would
be made during project implementation to maximize the size of the outgrower
components providing that outgrower achievements are satisfactory.



- 26 -
IX.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
9.01      During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
points:
(a)  Funds will be made available to improve the access roads to
plantation sites so as to allow all-weather access to the
project area before June 30, 1978 (para 3.02).
(b)  The Project Directorate currently located in Abidjan would be
established in the Southwest region as soon as required in
consultation with the Bank (para 4.03).
(c)  Government would make available to SODEPALM any funds necessary
to carry out ongoing and future investment programs of auxiliary
activities entrusted to it (para 4.16).
(d)  The yearly price at which oil palm and coconut products and
by-products would be bought from SODEPALM by CSSPPA would be
adequate and would be used only to cover operating expenses
and debt-service of these sectors. Furthermore, the Bank would
be informed of these prices before they become effective (para
4.17).
(e)  Financing of this project would be adequately provided for by
Government on a yearly basis (para 5.06).
9.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a)  The presidential decree has been published and is in full force
and effect (para 2.25).
(b)  Government, SODEPALM and PALMINDUSTRIE have ratified the Agreement
Amending Previous Loan Agreements (para 2.25).
(c)  The Bank has received satisfactory assurances with respect to
the BNDA-SODEPALM loan (para 5.03).
(d)  Government financing of the project had been adequately provided
for the first year by the development budget (para 5.06).
9.04      Under these assurances and conditions, this project would be suit-
able for a Bank loan of US$20 million with a repayment period of 20 years,
including a grace period of four and one-half years.



ANNEX I
Page 1
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Progress of Agricultural Projects Financed by the Bank
A.   Loan 611-IVC - Palmivoire US$3.3 Million Equivalent (June 13, 1969)
1.        The project consisted of establishing and bringing into production
4,000 ha of oil palms at Ehania estate to bring the estate to 10,000 ha of
oil palms. The loan became effective on December 30, 1969. Planting was
completed in 1972 and plantation maintenance has been satisfactory. Planting
costs were slightly lower than etimated at the time of appraisal, and the
project is now completed.
B.   Loan 612-IVC - Palmindustrie US$4.8 Million Equivalent (June 13, 1969)
2.        The project financed the construction of a palm oil mill to service
the 10,000 ha Ehania estate and some outgrowers. The loan became effective
on December 30, 1969. The mill was constructed with an initial capacity of
40 tons/hour ffb, in two processing lines, and these are functioning satis-
factorily at full capacity. Costs were within appraisal estimates. An
addition of a 20-ton/hour processing line was provided for in the project,
but Palmindustrie requested the Bank to approve a change in plans involving
two satellite mills of 20-ton/hr each with expanded central mill service,
instead of the addition. The change in plans was approved but, because
increased revenues had become available to Palmivoire, the Bank limited
its participation to the residual funds (US$700,000). The project is now
completed.
C.   Loan 613-IVC - Sodepalm US$9.0 Million Equivalent (June 13, 1969)
3.        The project consisted of the establishment and bringing into pro-
duction of 12,000 ha of outgrower oil palms, the establishment and maintenance
until 1974 of 3,500 ha of estate coconuts and 3,000 ha of outgrower coconuts,
the provision of credit and supervisory services for oil palm and coconut
outgrowers and the necessary infrastructure associated with the 3,500 ha of
estate coconuts. The loan became effective on December 30, 1969. Project
coconut estate plantings were due to be completed in 1971. Due to shortage
of planting material (because of disease), the Bank agreed to extend the
planting period to 1972. All estate plantings have now been completed.
To permit more rigorous selection of outgrowers, the Bank also agreed, at
the request of the Borrower, to the extension of the oil palm outgrower
program planting period, initially scheduled to be completed in 1970, to
1972. All plantings have now been completed.
4.        The above three loans were the first Bank operations in support
of the oil palm sector in the Ivory Coast. After a relatively slow start,



ANNEX I
Page 2
disbursements of the Bank loans have accelerated and are now all disbursed.
On the other hand, physical progress has been very good. The production of
oil palms, now increasing steadily, has reached about 70% of the potential,
and yields of both estates and outgrowers are well in line with appraisal
estimates.
D.   Loan 686-IVC - Cocoa Project US$7.5 Million Equivalent (June 5, 1970)
5.        The project originally consisted of the planting of 18,800 ha of
cocoa and the rehabilitation of about 38,000 ha of existing cocoa plantations
and became effective in November 1970. The project was amended in July 1973
to reduce the rehabilitation component to 15,500 ha; this revised program
has been completed. Approximately 10,000 ha had been established under
the new planting program by the end of 1973 and about 6,000 ha in 1974. The
project had proceeded satisfactorily except for administrative problems which
have delayed the submission of requests for reimbursement.  However, the
administration of this and the recently approved second cocoa project would
be combined and an estimated 3,200 ha of cocoa will be planted under the
second project. Savings of US$2.2 million resulting from the amendment and
the merging of the two projects have been cancelled at the date of signing of
the second project.
E.   Loans 759-IVC and 760-IVC - Sodepalm and Palmindustrie US$7.0 Million
Equivalent (June 22, 1971)
6.        The project consists of (a) planting 4,500 ha outgrower oil palms,
(b) 4,500 ha of outgrower coconut palms, (c) 8,000 ha of coconut palms on
Government-owned estates, and (d) construction of a palm oil mill. The
Ioans became effective on November 15, 1972. The oil mill was commissioned
in December 1972, and is operating satisfactorily. The planting programs
are proceeding satisfactorily and on schedule.
F.   Loan 938-IVC - SOCATCI Rubber Estate US$8.4 Million Equivalent
(October 23, 1973)
7.        The purpose of the loan is to finance, pari passu with CCCE and FED,
the planting of 13,500 ha of modern rubber estates and the establishment of
auxiliary services under the management of "Etablissement Michelin", a French
tire manufacturer. The project ran into infrastructure problems immediately
on inception and was also slowed by inefficient management. When these two
constraints had been taken care of, severe shortage of field labor reduced
its planting rhythm and the project objectives had to be reduced so as to
bring them within the original cost estimates. Plantings are now expected
to cover about 7,000 ha and to be completed by 1978.



ANNEX I
Page 3
G.   Loan 1036-IVC - Sodepalm and Palmivoire US$2.6 Million Equivalent
(July 31, 1974)
8.        This loan became effective in August 1975.  The loan is a follow-
up to previous Bank loans for oil palm. The project, which will also receive
financing from CCCE, provides for the planting of 5,000 ha of oil palm by
outgrowers and 5,500 on SODEPALM estates. Implementation of the project is
proceeding satisfactorily.
H.   Loan 1069-IVC - Ivory Coast Government Second Cocoa Project US$20.0
Million Equivalent (January 10, 1975)
9.        This loan, which became effective in September 1975, is a
follow-up to the first Cocoa Project (Loan 686-IVC). Implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily and on schedule.
I.   Loan 1077-IVC - Ivory Coast Government Cotton Areas Rural Development
Project US$31.0 Million Equivalent (January 17, 1975).
10.       This loan became effective in June 1975.  Its main purpose is to
increase cotton-growing areas from 57,000 ha to 80,000 ha and to expand the
areas of food crops grown in rotation with cotton from about 9,000 ha to
71,000 ha.



ANNEX II
Table 1
Page 1
SODEPALM GROUP BALANCE SHEET
at September 30, 1975
1.   Assets
An analysis of SODEPALM's balance sheets for the last three years has
shown that the Group had accumulated assets which totalled, as at September 30,
1975,  CFAF 52,780 million  (uS$ 234.58 million)
The breakdown of these assets is as follows:
CFAF million US$ million CFAF million US$ million
A.   INCORPORATION COSTS, PATENTS ETC                                   1,055         4.69
3.   FIXED ASSETS:  Land                      157         0.70
Agricultural Estates                10,835       48.16
Processing installations             8,586       38.16
Housing and buildings                5,328       23.68
Equipment and Machinery                689        3.o6
Rolling stock                        3,532       15.70
Furniture                              466        2.07
Installations, sewerage,             2,188        9.72
and water adductions, etc.
ONGOING INVESTMENTS
Agricultural                         3,459       15.37
Others                               2,507       11.14         37,747      167.76
C.   PORTFOLIO ASSETS
Loans to Farmers: Oil Palm           1,558        6.92
Coconut           1,468         6.52
FER subsidies to Oil Palm
outgrowers                           1,215        5.40
Others                                 139        o.62
4,380       l9.-7
FNI certificates                       509        2.26
Other certificates                      35        0.16          4,924       21.88
D.   INVENTORIES
Raw materials and spare parts        1,427        6.34
Civil works                            236        1.05
Stocks of palm oil and kernels         997        4.43          2,660       11.82
E.   CASH AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Debtors: Suppliers                       9        0.01
Clients                    2,362        10.50
Others                     1,312         5.84
Transit accounts                       179        o.80
Time deposits                        1,232        5.50
Bills receivable                       563        2.50
Cash in Banks                          684        3.05
Cash at hand                            52        0.23          6,393       28.43
Total CFAF       52,780       234.58



i)iNEX l.I
Table I
.`age 2
SODEPALM GROUP BALANCE SHEET
at September 30, 1975
2. Liabilities
The above-mentioned assets have been financed from the following sources:
CFA? million  US$ million  CF.A? mllion US$ million
A. CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Capital                          3,539         15. 72
Reserves                           636         '2.83
Accumulnted profits              1,835          8.16           6,cLo       26.71
B. GRANTS AND SUBSIDIES
Grant from Republic of
Ivory Coast                      2,878         12.79
Subsidies from Government
to Oil Palm outgrowers             109          o.48
Subsidies from Feeder
Roads equipment                    138          O.61
Subsidies from FER                 136          0.60          3,261        i4.48
C. DEBTS AND LOANS
Loan from Government to
be reimbursed to FER             7,228         32.13
FER subsidy for Oil Palm
outgrowers                         308          1.36
Guaranteed dividend to
Government                         554          2.46
Long- and short-term loans    16,310           72.49         24,401       1o8.44
D. OTHER CREDITORS
Suppliers                          583          2.59
Others                             700          3.12
CSSPPA                           4,o86         18.17
Governmnent (Income Tax)           417          1.86
Expenses due and other
transit accounts                 1,039          4.62          6,826        30.36
E.  AMORTIZATION FUND (accumulated)                                  12,282        54.59
TOTAL CFAF    52,780        234.58



IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
CASH FLOW OF OIL PALM AND COCONUT SECTORS
(CFAF million)
1976           1977           1978            1979           1980
STABILIZATION FUND:
EST IMATED CASH FLOW
Revenue of the Oil Palm and Coconut Sector
Total Revenues                                           14,275         20,126         22,838         24,615          26,946
Production Cost                                           8,263        11,609          13,304         14,402          15,912
Debt service                                              1,909          2,226          2,979          3,230           2,167
Depreciation allowances                                   2,168          2,936          3,264          3,467           3,563
Research                                                                 1,076             40             91             264
Purchase of private shares                                1,172
FER                                                         306            375            384            388             390
Total                                                    13,818         18,222         19,971         21,578          23,296
Surplus to CSSPPA                                           457          1,904          2,867          3,037           3,650
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW
A. SODEPALM GROUP
SODEPALM                                               (2,931)        1,106           1,949           (320)           (696)
PALMINDUSTRIE                                           1,475           185             898            940             635
PALMIVOIRE                                                117
SODEPALM CROUP                                         (1,339)        1,291          2,847             620             (61)
B. SODEPALM GROUP + STABILIZATION FUND (SECTOR)               (882)        3,195          5,714           3,657          3,789
of which Government Contribution                                       3,415             925
C. SECTOR NET CUMULATIVE CASH FLOW                                         '<S85)         4,0S4           7,751         11,540
II   PALMINDUSTRIE:                                                           (1,202)         3,687          7,344          11,133
Resourees
Equity increase                                                            140
Accumulated surpluses                                     1,843
Amortization Fund                                         1,614          1,717          1,920          1,995           2,030
Government contribution                                                    500
External Financing
Kernel oil mill                                                      2,422             742
Extension oil mill(s.W)                                                                                               510
Ongoing loans                                            744
Total                                                     4,201          4,779          2,662          1,995           2,540
Expenditure
S.E. expansion                                                         1,934             815            905             905
Kernel oil mill                                          1,631          2,660            349                                             (D 
Storage facilities                                                                       600            150             150
(S.W.)oil mills                                                                                                          850
Total                                                     2,726          4,594          1,764          1,055           1,905
Surplus (deficit)                                         1,475            185            898            940             635



TVORY CO2ST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCOU: PROJECT
CASH FLOW OF OIL PALM ND COCONUT SECTORS
(CFAF million)
1976           1977           1978            1979            1980
III SODEPALM:
Resources
a) oil Palm and Coconut Estates
i) Income: quality bonus                                    (574)  1       404            356             410            441
ii) Amortization Fund S.E.                                 1,496  2/    l,105            1,140           1,211          1,239
mortization Fund S W.                                    192            459            557             560            566
Pnortlzation Fund (Coprah)                                                              57             111            148
iii) Government Contribution                                               2,775            925
iv) External Financing
Ongoing loans (east)                                 1,089           323
Southwest negotiated loans
IBRD                                                             1,751          2,508             741
CDC/BNDA                                                           480             700            120
Local Bank                                                       1,450
Additional Loans                                                                       392             367            262
Subtotal                                                   2,203         8,747          6,635           3,520          2,656
b) Diversification Activities
ij) Income                                                                 129            276             324            391
ii) External Financing                                      __ 1249                        284             122            115
1,378            550             446            506
Total Resources                                              220J         10.125           7.185          3 966          3,162
Expenditure
a) Oil Palm and Coconut Estates
i)Investments Southeast                                  2,055          1,887          1,450           1,197          1,035
ii)Investments Southwest                                   2,086         5,052          3,Z14           2,180          1,883
Subtotal                                                 4,141         6,939           4,66'           S,377          2,918
Debt service (civil works equipment)                                       83             i66            456            423
b) Diversification
Livestock                                                   317           218             172            189            164
(grated coconut) SICOR                                       35           557             86              15
(engineering) DERI                                         6411         I,9j.                           -
993         1,866            258             204            164
Debt service                                                              131            148             249            353
Total Expenditure                                         5,134         9,019          5,236           4,286          3,858
Surplus (deficit)                                        (2,931)        1,106          1,949            (320)       _ 696)
of which
i) oil Palm and Coconut Sectors
Southwest                                             148         1,780           1,310         (1,215)         (1,740)
Southeast                                          (2,086)           (55)           485            902           1,055
ii) Diversification                                         (993)         (619)           154              (7)           (11)
1/    Loss of CFAF 574 million in 1976 is due to deficit on the coconut sector
2/    Includes amortization of civil works equipment not paid by the Stabilization Fund
(5 H 
oD >C



ANrNEX III
Appendix 1
Page 1
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Development of the Southwest Region
1.        The region's economic importance has grown in recent years thanks to
the implementation of rubber plantations at Grand Bereby, and the fact that
three SODEPALII plantations (Soubre, Okrouyo and Bolo) are dependent on the
region's one harbor for ocean-going vessels, at San Pedro. This harbor has
been expanded to handle export of products from these projects; Government
plans to further develop the port to relieve Abidjan of freight from the land-
locked countries to the north (the distance from Bamako is 100 km shorter to
San Pedro than Abidjan). The proposed project would be further west in the
hereto undeveloped Bas Cavally prefecture, which has its administrative center
at Tabou, a small coastal town of 8,000 population.
2.        Technical surveys of the Southwest Region have been carried out by
IRHO over some years, and the general location and size of future tree crop
plantations have been identified to a reasonable accuracy. Plantings of oil
palm and coconut would cover about 50,000 ha in more or less contiguous blocks.
Around these plantings would be an equal quantity of rubber, in four sepa-
rate blocks. Finally, starting after 1980, there would be large blocks
cleared for pulp-industry plantations. While such a development scheme
is technically feasible and, subject to further study, could be recommended,
it appears that uncoordinated development could lead within a few years
to dismantling of forest cover at an excessive pace. There could be a danger
of changing the rainfall regime (evapotranspiration, cloud movement, etc.)
in ways that could be to the serious disadvantage of some plantations and/or
local food crops. Thus, measures would have to be taken to limit the blocks
of space cleared in any one year, and to stagger the locations ("domino
clearing"). The rhythm of development probably should not exceed the pace
that is being planned under the proposed project, some 7,000/8,000 ha planted,
requiring some 20,000 ha of forest being dismantled per year. A condition
of the proposed loan would be that, within one year of loan signing, Govern-
ment would cause an agricultural development scheme to be prepared, with
the various projects programmed to take into account the ecological risk.
Further, the terms of reference of the planning effort should cover land-use
planning for forestry (e.g., delimitation of the forest reserves) and the
welfare of existing wild life. In this connection, it is noted that a land-
use study of the northwest region, to the north of the project area, is
expected to be launched soon, under the aegis of a proposed Interminis-
terial Land Use Committee, with particular regard to a large wood pro-
cessing industry.



ANNEX III
Appendix 1
Page 2
3.        The benefits to the region from the Government's development pro-
gram, including the proposed project, are expected to be social as well as
economic. Under current conditions, the outlook for improved standards of
living in the Bas Cavally district is dim unless new sources of steady income
can be created. Thus, the creation of a "pole of development" is of great
importance. Coconut and oil palm plantations have the advantage of combining
a need for salaried employment on estates, mostly to be filled from the
destitute nations to the north, with the development of outgrowers. These
two components are inter-dependent, in that estates are essential to support
outgrower production, but outgrowers raise the profitability of the central
estates and mills investments. The opportunity is also created for villages,
and estate workers eventually, to take up food production to supply the
estates. Further, exploitation of the coastal fisheries would be given a
sound basis for development. It was feared initially there would be serious
opposition to the state's "intrusion" into a region with no previous restric-
tions on the use of land. The executing agency, therefore, is taking care
that village consultation meetings are held. The reactions, so far, have
been particularly positive toward the establishment of dispensaries and better
schools.



ANNEX III
Appendix 2
Page 1
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Kaincope Disease
1.        Kaincope disease first appeared in West Africa in the early 1930's
(Togo and Ghana). The causal agent has not been identified but seems to be
related to the presence of mycoplasms. It seems to be related to lethal
yellowing disease in Jamaica and Florida and the Kribi disease in Cameroon.
The diseased trees are characterized by a dropping of the nuts, and a pro-
gressive yellowing followed by drying out of the foliage, starting with
the external leaves. The trees eventually die and the disease spreads to
neighboring trees in oil-slick fashion. New plantings on infected soil are
soon attacked. In Togo, out of some 5,000 ha, the disease has affected about
4,000 ha, over 40 years.
2.        The disease has been reported along the Ghana-Ivorian border, some
500 miles from the southwest project area. The planting material to be used
would be a hybrid whose mother is a dwarf variety that is known to have very
high resistance to Kaincope disease, and it is a reasonable hope that this
resistance is inherited by the hybrid to a significant degree. To assess
the possible threat to the project, a meeting was convened at IRHO's Port
Bouet station and attended by representatives of interested agencies, in-
cluding the Bank. A note prepared by IRHO on the disease is attached at
pages 2-4. The risk is considered small enough to be acceptable. At the
Port Bouet meeting, it was recommended that an international research pro-
gram be mounted as soon as possible, to include plantings in the various
West African coastal countries where the disease occurs, aimed at deter-
mining more precisely the hybrid's resistance. This research program is
being designed by IRHO, and funds for inception of this program in Togo are
to be provided by a Development Credit approved by IDA.



ANNEX Ill
Attachment 1
Page 1
Note on Kaincope Disease
Issued in Connection with the
World Bank - Sodepalm - IRHO
Meeting of January 9, 1976
(unofficial translation of a Note issued by IRHO, Port-Bouet Station)
I.        General
Kaincope disease was first observed in Togo in 1932. The disease
spreads in an oil-slick fashion. It traveled from West to East and has now
reached the border of Benin without, however, penetrating this country.
Rapid periods of extension are followed by periods of inactivity.
All the coconut groves of the Togolese littoral have been ravaged by this
disease. In 1974, no more disease centers were recorded among the old sur-
viving coconut trees; instead the existing centers are isolated and located
some 20 kilometers in the interior.
In Ghana, the Cape Saint-Paul disease has reached the Togolese
frontier at Three Points Cape. This disease, known since 1932 in the Cape St.
Paul, appeared at the Three Points Cape in 1968.
In Cameroon, a similar decay is known in the Kribi region.  In Benin,
contrary to what has been written by Johnson and Harries, the disease does not
exist.  Outside Africa, the disease that resembles it the most is the lethal
yellowing wilt found among the coconut trees in Jamaica and Florida.
Currently, it seems well established that the lethal yellowing wilt
and Kaincope disease are related through the presence of mycoplasms. The
remission of symptoms obtained by injecting Tetracycline into the coconut
tree confirms the mycoplasmic nature of the disease. The vectoral agent of
the mycoplasms is not known. The disease has never been reproduced. The
identity of the different diseases in West Africa and Jamaica has not been
definitely established.
II.       Varietal Resistance
In Togo, 42 coconut trees of the "Malaysia Tall" type, planted in
1959 at Baguida, are free from the disease, while the "West Africa Tall"
coconuts are dying in the same area. Similarly in Togo, dwarfs planted
between 1961 and 1963 (Malaysia Yellow Dwarfs, Cameroon Red Dwarfs, Brasil
Green Dwarfs) in areas devastated by the disease show only two cases of
death after 12 years, which seems to demonstrate a better resistance of
these types.



ANNEX III
Attachment 1
Page 2
A trial with dwarf coconuts vas carried out near Cape Saint Paul
in Ghana, including Malaysia Dwarfs in 1957, and Malaysia Dwarfs and Cameroon
Dwarfs imported from Ivory Coast and from Jamaica in 1966-67. Nearly all
have died and their death was said to have resulted from the disease.  Their
death, however, could be attributed to the unfavorable environment in the Cape
St. Paul area (poor soil, inadequate rainfall, some 850 mm which means a
deficit of 800-1,000 mm); these conditions are detrimental to the development
of Dwarf coconut, which is more sensitive to drought than Tall. Under such
conditions, and keeping in mind the limited number of trees (8 to 14 in the
1966-67 trial) , it is difficult to assess the resistance to the disease from
these results. In Cameroon an outbreak of the disease was observed in 1975 on
Red Dwarfs, about 10 years old, at Ebome. In Jamaica, the Malaysia Dwarf is
resistant to the disease (4% mortality) in contrast to Jamaica Tall (85%
mortality). Malaysia, Thailand, and Cambodia Talls are less resistant
(20% to 30% mortality), and the Ceylon and Panama Dwarfs are susceptible.
The hybrid Panama Tall x Malaysia Dwarf is tolerant (13%) and the Malaysia
Dwarf x Jamaica Tall is somewhat less tolerant (22%). These results were
obtained in an environment that is very favorable to the disease and where
the Jamaica Tall "factor" (high susceptibility) is a determining cause of
the high susceptibility.
Ihe tolerance of the last two hybrids, for which one of the parents
is susceptible to the disease, shows that it is possible to develop a tolerant
hybrid from susceptible types crossed with resistant types. Even though no
systematic trial has been conducted in Togo on the Yellow Dwarf x West African
Tall hybrid, there is reason to speculate that this hybrid is tolerant to
the Kaincope disease.
III.      Discussions - Conclusions
In West Africa, the centers of coconut disease are always very
isolated. They extend some 60 km in Togo and about 70 km in Ghana (rainfall:
850 x 1,200 mm).  In Cameroon, in the Kribi region, the disease extends some
100 km to the north of the border with Equatorial Guinea.
The limits between the healthy zones and the disease zones are
always very clear-cut. In the case where an agent-vector is involved, it
is a signal that an imperceptible modification of the biotope (microclima-
tic conditions, wind direction and force, forest screen, proximity of an
urban site, etc.) can be an obstacle to the development of the insect and
the establishment of the disease.
The distance that separates the West front of the Kaincope-
disease's advance in Ghana and the large coconut groves situated to the
East of the Ivory Coast is about 150 km, that is to say a distance com-
parable to that which had been traveled by the disease from Cape St. Paul
to Cape Three Points in 40 years. Unless there is a prompt appearance of
the disease, the risks of the disease appearing in the Southwest of the
Ivory Coast, 600 km distant from the Ghanian border, by progression from



ANNEX III
Attachment 1
Page 3
pocket to pocket, are tiny and certainly very slight within the next 50
years; a period that, in terms of selection, is sufficient for finding a
resistant material. Moreover, the next reconversion of the coconut groves
along the eastern littoral of the Ivory Coast in hybrids of NS x GOA which
are more resistant than the GOA would contribute an obstacle to the progress
of the disease.
It is therefore reasonable to believe that Kaincope disease would
not hinder the realization, nor compromise the development of the coconut
project in the southwest of the Ivory Coast and that field tests pursued
diligently in Ghana, Togo and Cameroon will bring within the next 10 to
15 years a solution to the problem.



ANNEX III
Appendix 3
Page 1
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Note on the Problemn of Land Tenure in West Africa
1.        Traditionally, in West Africa, land does not belong to individuals,
but to the chiefdom. The chief himself owns the people's land as trustee.
If for some reason he ceases to be chief, he may no longer regulate the local
land occupancy. He may also own part of the land as "Ilouse Land," which has
been conquered by his ancestors through means of war.
2.        Traditionally, the land is given for occupancy to the one who
cultivates it. Generally, an heir may count on acquiring the family farm
when the family head disappears; in any case, there is almost always a close
relative who would wish to continue being a farmer. However, if the heir
goes away to town and there is pressure for land in his village, the land
may be given to someone else, sometimes an immigrant who has elected to
stay in this village because he is an active and successful farmer (generally,
this occurs after the "stranger" has resided several years in the particular
village). But this type of alienation is very rare. Additionally, when
a forest plot is cleared by a peasant for planting a tree crop, the trees
are considered the planter's property. In urban areas, of course, modern laws
govern land ownership.
3.         This general theme is true for the whole of West Africa with some
regional variations.
4.        A particular Governmental power exists in the territories which
were ruled by France prior to independence. In the 1920's, the vast forest
areas which were practically unoccupied or not cultivated were declared
"State Owned," or "Domaniales."  This occurred with the agreement of the
nearby chiefs who did not, or could not, claim occupancy on these forests.
The result of this is as follows:
5.        When in an ex-French territory, such as Ivory Coast, the State
wants to devote an area of State-owned land to a tree crop estate, the
Covernment may alientate this part of land and issue a property title to a
company (State-owned or not) created for so doing through the law governing
concessions. (The property agreement generally requires that a certain per-
centage of the devoted land be developped.
6.         In the case of blocks on State lands to be devoted to outgrower
development, as in the proposed project, the Government may also issue
property titles to individual peasants.



ANNEX III
Appendix 3
Page 2
7.        In the case of smallholders who, using bank credit, plant trees on
part of their farm whose soil is governed by common law, the Government may
guarantee the ownership of the trees. This implies that the land cannot be
taken from the owner of the trees as long as they exist; but the Government
cannot deliver ownership titles, which would cause an alienation from the
peoples' land.
8.        The best guaranty for money recovery that the Bank may obtain is the
joint responsibility of a group of no less than five peasants grouped together
and equally responsible for their loans and respective crops.



IVORY COAST                                ANNEX III
Table 1
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Phasing of Proje=t and Personnel =equirements
PYl           PY2          PY3       Total
Planting Program
(a) Coconut Estates      ha          2,000        3,250        2,250         7,500
(b) Oil Palm Estates    ha                        3,000         5,000        8,000
(c) Coconut Outgrowers  ha             200           550       1,250         2,000
(d) Oil Palm Outgrowers ha                          200           300          500
Total2                           7,000        8,800       18,000
Southwest Management
Regional Manager          *               1            1            1            1
Financial Manager         *               -            1            1            1
Accountant                                1            1            1            1
Secretary                                 1            1            1            1
Clerks                                    5            7            7            7
Drivers                                   2            2            2            2
Guards                                    2            2            2            2
Total                  12           15            15           i15
Coconut Estates
Head of Plantation        *               2            2            2            2
Assistants                                2            4            4            4
Foremen                                   2            3            5            5
Gang Leaders                              8           18           22           22
Administrative Asst.                      1            2            2            2
Head Mechanic                                          1            1            1
Clerks, Storekeepers                      4            8            8            8
Nurses, Social Assistants                 8           16           16           16
Mechanics and Drivers                    12           27           27           27
Cooks, Houseboys, Guards                 12           21           21           21
Field Workers                           204          449          54o          540
Total                 255           551          648
Oil Palm Estates
Head of Plantation        *               -            2            2            2
Assistants                                             2            6            6
Foremen                                   2            8           il           il
Gang Leaders                             12           41           55           55
Administrative Assts.                                  1            2            2
Workshop Head                                          1            2            2
Clerks, Storekeepers                                   5           10           10
Nurses, Social Assistants                 -            8           16           16
Mechanics and Drivers                    13           53           81           81
Cooks, Houseboys, Guards                  -           12           24           24
Field Workers                           300        1 011        1 074        1,074
Total                 327                     1283         1283
Outgrowers Program
Group Leaders                             2            4           10           10
Sector Chiefs                                          1            2            2
Drivers, Mechanics                                     4            6            6
Guards                                                 1            2            2
Total                    2          10.           20           20
* Indicates expatriate staff



ANNEX III
Table 2
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Projected Yields 1/
I. OIL PALM
A. Estates                            B. Outgrowers
Year after
Planting                          M tons/ha ffb
4                   4.o                                   3.5
5                 10.0                                   9
6                 12.0                                   12
7                 16.0                                   14
b                 18.0                                  16
Q onward          18.0                                   16
II. COCONUT
'000 nuts/ha
5                  0.750                                  0.500
6                  5.0                                    4.500
7                 14.0                                   12.500
18.500                                17.0
q                  21.0                                  18.500
10 onward           23                                    20.500
1/   It has been assumed that eventual yields achieved by smallholders
will be about 10% lower than estates due to a less rigorous standard of
maintenance and harvesting.



IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT  PROJECT
Yieids and Yearly Production
Projections for Oil Palm ffb and Kernels
Yearly                                     Total
Production    Total                        Yearly      Total
Cumulative      Yield       according      Yearly         Yield of    Yield of   Kernel
Year      number of ha   ffb tons   to years          Production   kernels        Kernels    Production
Planted   in production  per ha        of planting   ffT tons       t/ha          t/ha        in tons
I.   ESTATES
1980: 3,000 ha 1977            3,000         4           12,.Dn       12,000        0.150          150           450
1961: 3,000 ha 1977                         10           30,000                     0.410        1,230
5,000 ha 1978           8,000          4           20,00       50,000       0.150           7.Q        1,980
1982: 3,000 ha 1977                         12           36,o0o                     0.515        1,545
5,000 ha 1978            8,000        10           50.000       86,ooo       0.410        2.050         3,595
1983: 3,000 ha 1977                         16           48,ooo                     o.69o        2,070
5,000 ha 1978           8,o0o        12            60,000      108,000       0.515        2,575         4,645
1984: 3,000 ha 1977                         18           54,ooo                     0,795        2,385
5,000 ha 1978           8,o0o        16     80o000             134,000       o.69o        3.45D         5,835
1985: 3,000 ha 1977
5,000 ha 1978           8,000        18                        144,000       0.795                      6,360
and on until 2005
II.  OUTGROWERS
1970-~                           200         3.5             700          700       0.130           2             26
1981: 200 ha 1977                            9             1,800                    0.370            74
300 ha 1978                500         3.5          1.050        2,850       0.130                        113
1982: 200 ha 1977                           12             2,400                    o.49o            98
300 ha 1978                500         9            2-70         5,100       0.370           lu           209
1983: 200 ha 1977                           14             2,800                    0.625          135
300 ha 1978                500         9            2.0          5,500       o.49o 0                      282
1984: 200 ha 1977                           16             3,200                    0.710          142
300 ha 1978                500       14 h                        7,400       0.625           187          329
1985: 200 ha 1977
300 ha 1978                500       16             8,o0o        8,000       0.710                        355
and on until 2005
t-HX
1- H



ANNEX III
Table 4
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Yields and Yearly Production
Projections for Coconuts, Copra and Coconut Charcoal
Cumulative    Yield    Yearly production   Total yearly   Copra
number of ha    '000    according to year   production in produc-  Charcoal
in production  nuts per  of planting in       thousands nuts tion at  at 250kg
ha     thousand nuts                       1 ton per per
______________   _________   ________________l_t_       5000   nuts
I. Estates
1980: 2000 ha 1976     2000          0.750        1500               1500          300        75
1981: 2000 ha 1976                   5           10000
3250 ha 1977     5250         0.750         2438             12438          2487       622
1982: 2000 ha 1976                  14           28000
3250 ha 1977                  5            16250
2250 ha 1978     7500         0.750         1688             45938          9188      2297
1983: 2000 ha 1976                 18.500        37000
3250 ha 1977                 14            45500
2250 ha 1978     7500         5            11250             93750         18750      4688
1984: 2000 ha 1976                  21           42000
3250 ha 1977                 18.500        60125
2250 ha 1978     7500        14            31500            133625         26725      6681
1985: 2000 ha 1976                  23           46000
3250 ha 1977                 21            68250
2250 ha 1978     7500        18.500        41625            155875         31175      7794
1986: 2000 ha 1976                  23           46000
3250 ha 1977                 23            74750
2250 ha 1978     7500        21            47250            168000         33600      8400
1987: full maturity    7500         23                            172500         34500      8625
II. Outgrowers
1980: 200 ha 1976       200          0.500         100                100           20         5
1981: 200 ha 1976                    4.500         900
550 ha 1977       750         0.500          275              1175           235        59
1982: 200 ha 1976                   12.500        2500
550 ha 1977                   4.500         2475
1250 ha 1978      2000         0.500          625              5600          1120       280
1983: 200 ha 1976                   17            3>400
550 ha 1977                  12.500         6875
1250 ha 1978      2000         4.500         5625             15900          3180       795
1984: 200 ha 1976                   18.500        3700
550 ha 1977                  17             9350
1250 ha 1978      2000        12.500        15625             28675          5735      1434
1985: 200 ha 1976                   20.500        4100
550 ha 1977                  18.500        10175
1250 ha 1978      2000        17            21250             35525         7105       1776
1986: 200 ha 1976                   20.500        4100
550 ha 1977                  20.500        11275
1250 ha 1978      2000        18.500        23125             38500         7700       1925
1987: full maturity    2000         20.500                         41000          8200      2050



Annex III
Table 5
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Ivory Coast Palm Oil and Kernels Production
1970 to 1985
Production of ffb
-----'000 tons----
1/
1970           1975           1980-          1985
SODEPALM plantations               95            473            613            901
Outgrowers' plantations            4o            161            288            441
Total SODEPALM            135             634            901          1,342
Private plantations               100            120            130            140
Total ffb                 235             754         1,031           1,482
Industrial oil 2/                  43            162            227            326
Industrial kernels 3/              10.6           33.2           45.4           65.2
Note:  the production from wild palms has not been taken into account as no
reliable figures could be obtained.
1/ Including present project.
2/  At a yield of 21.5% in 1975, 22% in 1980, 1985.
3/ At a yield of 4.4%.



IVORY COAST
FOURTHi OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
SOLITHWEST PLANTATIONS STRUCTURES AND
MANAGEMENT SETUP AND SODEPALM CONNECTION
|  'iltPO F                                                                MANAGER
I  J                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FOJR SOUIRWVEST  CONSULTANrS
L (.tNtl1IAL MANAGER                                                    L FUR ID OPMENT
JUtER~~~                                                                            l~~ ll lA  Ml ul A    i FdL-AMOJGO'[R
1  L                                              ANI)F{:-S'-l---0 C)H iS   NF6LH      C A                                                                                         i   A ITARN RO
m(Li                                  rIE i3                                           MEIA Ng   @
ORGANI tZATIO                                     r        .   r        X      C         lFICR
ACCOUN r INGESTAT ESSIKA                                                        OUTGROVSERS
MIANAGERS            WORKSHOPS             ATTENDANTS          SECTOR
PERSONNEL      DIVSON                GARAGE
ASSISTAT              MECHANICS
CNTRUCTION
W-lrd 8-t.  16l441



ANNEX IV
Page 1(a)
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
The Outgrowers Program
1.        A system of financing outgrower development through nominally
interest-free credits was introduced in the oil palm sector in the early
1970s. In the appraisal report of the Third Oil Palm Project, it was pointed
out that this system was not intended to replace or compete with a convention-
al credit system, was not establishing undesirable precedents, because of its
specialized nature, and was simply,a financing method chosen by Government to
attain the dual objectives of: (a) providing adequate incentives to farmers to
diversify into oil palm, and (b) assuring Government a satisfactory return on
its investment in the outgrower program. Both these objectives have been
satisfactorily met; a small grant element, previously considered necessary,
has been eliminated in the southwest project. Under the project, outgrowers
must sell their produce to SODEPALM, and the producer price is fixed at a
level that will leave a reasonable margin after the produce is sold on the
export market.  As it is considered desirable to have similar terms for all
outgrowers under the project, the same system would be extended to coconut
outgrowers.
2.        The credit supplied by SODEPALM would cover the full direct costs
of establishing an outgrower's plantings, including cash advances to com-
pensate the farmer for his work during years PYI to PY3 as below:
Oil Palm Outgrower    Coconut Outgrower
----------------CFAF ha ---------------
Total Credit:                 141,000               208,000
of which cash advances         60,000                50,000
3.        The repayment period would be eight years for the oil palm outgrower,
with four years of grace; and Il years for the coconut outgrower, with five
years of grace. These terms reflect the different cash flows of the two types
of outgrower (See Tables 1 and 2), and in particular the slower production
curve for the coconut grower.



ANNEX IV
Page 1(b)
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
CREDIT ARRANGEMENTS
I. OIL PALM OUTGROWERS
The Credit Component
1.        The following table shows the cost of land development and the
distribution of credit in kind and in cash over the four-year period re-
quired to bring outgrower oil palm into production:
(CFAF/ha)
Development Cost          Year 1    Year 2       Year 3      Year 4      Total
(a) Credit in Kind
Cover Crop           2,400                                         2,400
Wirenetting          14,875                                        14,875
Fertilizers           1,925     5,530       2,800       4,200    14,455
Seedlings           39,182      1,918        -           -        41,100
Transport            5,200         240         240         240     5,920
Labor                 1,250        250         250         250     2,000
Miscellaneous           250      -             -           -          250
Total          65,082      7,938       3,290       4,690    81,000
(b)  Cash Credit          38,000    14,000        8,000          -     60,000
Total Cost:  103,082    21,938        11,290       4,690   141,000
Repayment Schedule
CFAF per Year               Subtotal             Total CFAF
Year 6           4,800                                        4,800
Year 7          17,400                                       22,200
Year 8 to 13   19,800                   118,800             141,000



ANNEX IV
Page 2
2.        The total estimated development costs of CFAF 141,000/ha
compare to CFAF 76,710/ha for the Third Oil Palm Project (Loan No. 1036)
and CFAF 117,220 and CFAF 102,050 for the first two preceding projects.
The increase reflects the difficult nature of the terrain which requires
more mandays of work for land preparation (i.e., the Cash Credit Component)
and rising costs of inputs.
3.        Outgrowers would clear the land, supply necessary tools at an
estimated cost of CFAF 3,000 in PY 1, CFAF 1,500 in PY 2 and then CFAF 750
for each following year of maintenance. They will also supply labor for
upkeep and harvest.
4.        In Year 5 outgrowers will buy with their own funds CFAF 4,200
worth of fertilizers and from Year 6 CFAF 5,600 worth of fertilizers for
each following year. These payments together with the cost of tools
(para 3) will come out of yielded income (see Cash Flow and Income Pro-
jection for Oil Palm Outgrowers Table No. 1).
5.        Farmers would now repay CFAF 141,000 from Year 6 to 13.  There
is no longer a subsidy to outgrowers as there was in previous projects.
Allocation of Proceeds
6.        From 1973 until recently, SODEPALM had been giving outgrowers
a bonus of CFAF 4 per kg of fresh fruit bunch which, together with the
guaranteed price of CFAF 4/kg, assured farmers a total income of CFAF
8/kg. Under this project the assumed price is CFAF 8/kg.
7.        The following table shows the estimated annual average alloca-
tion of the value of one kilo of ffb, using the IBRD Forecast of palm
produce prices:



ANNEX IV
Page 3
Palm Produce Content (per Kg/ffb)    (k)               (CFAF)          (CFAF)
Oil content                       0.220          16.28
Kernel                            0.043           2.12
Gross revenue                                                    18.40
Export taxes                                                      0.87
Net revenue to SODEPALM                                          17.53
SODEPALM Costs
Investments and Supervision                       2.13
Collection                                        1.21
Processing and transport                          3.41
Financial charges                                 0.77
7.52
Net available                                                    10.01
Price to Outgrowers                                               8.00
Surplus                                                           CFAF 2.01



ANNEX IV
Page 4
II. COCONUT OUTGROWERS
The Credit Component
9.        The following table shows the cost of land development and the
distribution of credit in kind and in cash over the five-year period
required to bring outgrower coconut trees into production:
(CFAF/ha)
Development Cost          Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4  Year 5   Total
(a) Credit in Kind
Cover Crop           3,000                                          3,000
Wirenetting         17,000                                         17,000
Fertilizers          4,748      8,544   16,480  22,656  18,272  70,700
Seedlings           41,600      2,080        -           -         43,680
Transport            4,295      2,678    2,678   2,678   2,678  15,007
Labor                2,500         500      500      500      500   4,500
Small tools and
Misc.              1,000      1,000    1,000       800      500   4,300
Total          74,143    14,802   20,658  26,634  21,950 158,187
(b)  Cash Credit         34,000      7,000    5,500   3,000    -        50,000
108.643    21,800   26,158  29,634  21,950 208,187
Repayment Schedule
CFAF per Year               Subtotal            Total CFAF
Year 7           12,500                                        12,500
Year 8           17,000                                        29,500
Year 9           18,500                                        48,000
Year 10          20,500                                        68,500
Year Il to 16   21,500                   129,000              197,500
Year 17          10,500                                       208,000



ANNEX IV
Page 5
10.       The total estimated development costs of CFAF 208,000/ha compare
to CFAF 188,100/ha for the Second Oil Palm Project (Loan No. 759) appraised
in 1971. The increase reflects the difficult nature of the terrain which
requires more mandays of work for land preparation (i.e., the Cash Credit
Component) and rising costs of inputs.
11.       Outgrowers would clear the land, supply necessary tools at an
estimated cost of CFAF 1,000 from PY 1 to PY 3, CFAF 800 in PY 4, and then
CFAF 500 for each following year of maintenance. They will also supply
labor for upkeep and harvest.
12.       From Year 6 outgrowers will buy with their own funds CFAF 22,628
of fertilizers for each following year. These payments together with the
cost of tools (para 3) will come out of yielded income. (See Cash Flow
and Income Projection for Coconut Outgrowers, Table 2).
13.       Farmers would now repay CFAF 208,000 from year 7 to 17.  There
is no longer a subsidy to outgrowers as there was in the previous project.
Allocation of Proceeds
14.       In the Second Coconut Project SODEPALM had forecast paying out-
growers CFAF 5 per coconut. The price has progressed since to CFAF 7/kg;
under this project the price of CFAF 7/nut has been retained.
15.       The following table shows the estimated annual average allocation
of the value of 1,000 coconuts based on IBRD Forecast of copra prices:
CFAF
Economic Value of 1,000 Coconuts                      FCF              10,943 1/
(including collection and transformation)
Sodepalm Costs:
Investments and Supervision          1,662
Financial Charges                      585                        2,247
8,696
Guaranteed Price to Outgrowers                                         7,000
Surplus                                                                1,696
1/   See Table No. 4 Annex X (Net value ton of copra CFAF 54,715 divided by
5,000 nuts).



IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Oil Palm Outgrowers
Cash Flow and Income Projiection 1ha.)
(in CFAF)
Years      Years
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7   8 to 13  14 to2B
A.  Income
(a) Cash Credit                            38,000    14,000       8,000
(b) Sales to Sodepalm (tons of ffb)                                          3.5        9.5       12         14.5        16         16
Value at CFAF 8/kg ffb                                                28,000    766,000    9 ~620    116,000   128,000   128,000
Total Income                           38,000    1400         8000    28000    7,000    96              11,0           300    28120
B. Disbursements
(a) Small Tools                             3,000      1,500        750        750        750         750        750        750        750
(b) Fertilizers                                                                         4,200      5,600       5,600      5,600      5,600
(c) Repay,ment af Credit                                                                           4,800    17,400    19,800
Total Disbursementb                     3,000      1,500        750        750      4,950    11,150    23,750    26,150          6,350
C.  NET CASH INCOME                             35.000    12.500                 27,250                84 850    92.250   101,850   121.650
D.  Workdays Required
(a) Land-clearing                             100
(b) Pla.ntiig                                  21          3
(c) Maintenance                                24         48         30          25         22         22         21          21         21
(d) Harvest                                                         -             7         19         24         29          31         31
Total Workdays                            145         51         30         32         41          46         50         52          52
=' =--I--~         ==                      = C=      ==                    m~
E.  Income per Manday                              241        245        242        852      1,733      1,845       1,845      1,959      2,339
(D 



IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALII A1L COCONUT PROJECT
Coconut Outgrowers
Cash Flow and Income Projection (I ha.)
(in CFAF)
Years       Yeer      Years
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5          Year 6     Year 7      Year 8     Year 9     Year 10  il to 16         17    14 to  29
A.  Income
(a) Cash Credit                             34,500      7,000      5,500       3,000
(b) Sales to Sodepalm  (,000 nuts)                                                          500      4.500    12,500    17,000        18.500    20,500    20o500    20.500    20.500
Value at CFAF 7 per nut                                                             3,500     31,500    87,500   119,000    129,500   143,500   143,500   143,500    143,500
Total Income                           34 500       7.000      5 50O      3 000  83500    319500    8119000   129,500   143.500   _3500   1 500
B.  Disbursements
(a) Small Tools                              1,000      1,000      1,000         800        500         500        500        500         500        500         500        500         500
(b) Fertilizers                                                                                     22,688    22,688       22,688    22,688       22,688     22,688    22,688    22,688
(c) Repayment of Credit                                                                 __         __12.500    17,000    18.500                   20.500    21,500    10.500            -
Total Disbursements                           1, 000         1      ,000   800        500    231          5.1644&688    33.688    23_188
C. NET CASH INCOME                              33, 500        000      4 500      2200        3,000 S,312    51,812                                                            .        2   1
D. Workdays Required
(a) Land-clearing                              100
(b) Planting                                    20         10           5
(c) Maintenance                                 12         15          12          8           8          8          7           7          7           7          7           7          7
(d) Harvest and Transport                                                                      1          9         25          35         38          41         43          43         43
Total Workdays                             132         25          17          8          9          17         32         42          45         48          50          50         50
E.  Income per Manday                               254        240         265        275        333        489       1,619      1,876       1.996      2.079          66.96   2,196       2.406
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r 1-4



ANNEX V
Page 1
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Oil Palm Sector
Industrial Investments and Processing Costs
A.   Production
1.        The following table shows the quantity in tons of fresh fruit
bunches that have to be processed yearly:
Estates    Outgrowers   Total
1980               12,000           700       12,700
1981               50,000         2,850       52,850
1982               86,000         5,100       91,000
1983              108,000         5,500      113,500
1984              134,000         7,400      141,400
1985 and on       144,000         8,000      152,000
2.         The production of 1980 (12,700 tons) will not be processed since
it does not justify advancing the considerable industrial investment by
one year for such a small quantity. Since transporting it to another
SODEPALMI mill is not feasible (ffbs must be processed within 24 hours of
harvest) and would not, in any case, warrant the transport costs, it will
be sold on the local market. Its value, or revenue from sales, has not
been taken into account.
B.   Industrial Investments
Two mills are scheduled, one in Iboke and the second one in Dewake.
The first mill, which will be operational in 1981, will start with one proces-
sing line of 20 tons/hour (i.e. 66,000 tons of ffb per year). An additional
processing line of 20 t/hr will be added in 1982. The year and costs for
these two lines are as follows:
Ist line:  1980, at cost of CFAF 1,000 millioir-
2nd line:  1981, at cost of CFAF 600 million
1/   In 1980 current terms.



ANNEX V
Page 2
The second mill at Dewake will be operating in 1983 with only one pro-
cessing line of 20 t/h. The total processing capacity will therefore be
198,000 tons/year at full production and cover the overall production of
the project area. When, and if, Government carries-out its additional
development of 4,500 ha in 1979 (3,000 ha estates and 1,500 ha outgrowers),
then a second processing line of 20 t/h will be added to the Dewake mill.
The investment of CFAF 1,000 million for the Dewake mill is scheduled in
1982.
4.        These two mills have a life-span of 12.5 years, but this period
has been conservatively reduced to 10 years. Processing costs have been
increased, as from the loth year of operation to include a provision for
renewal.
C.   Processing Costs
5.        The average cost per ton of ffb processed in various SODEPALM
mills has been CFAF 2,000, reaching CFAF 2,500 in the older mills, and
falling to CFAF 1,737 at Dabou and CFAF 1,722 at the newest Ehania mill.
The average cost of CFAF 2,000 has been retained for the new southwest
mills, giving CFAF 9,000 per ton of oil processed.
6.        In the economic rate of return, from 1989 on, CFAF 6,500 per
ton of oil processed has been added to cover a provision for mill renewal,
bringing total processing costs to CFAF 15,500 per ton of oil. 1/
1/   Investment of CFAF 2,600 million and processing of 45,000 tons
of oil per year during 10 years, plus interest charges.



ANNEX V
Table 1
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM MND COCONUT PROJECT
PROCESSING COSTS
Total
Total         Cost at       proces-
Total tons  Cost at CFAF  tons of        CFAF 13,750   sing      Price 1/
Palm Oil    9000 per ton  of copra        per ton       costs    contin-
Year   processed   (in CFAF m)   processed   (in CFAF m)   CFAF m   gencies   TOTAL
198C       -           -               320         4              4        2             6
1981   11,627       105             2,722        37            142        91          213
1982   20,o42       180            10,308       142             322      195          527
1983   24,970       225            21,930       302             527      264          791
1984   31,108       280            32,460       446             726      609        1,335
1985   33,440       301            38,280       526            827       8oo        1,627
1986   33,440       301            41,300       567            868       959        1,827
Local Taxes: 10%
1/   Compounded at 7% per year starting in 1976



ANNEX V
Table 2
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
COCONUT SECTOR
Processing Costs
I.   Copra
A kiln processes 11,000 nuts per day, during 300 days per year,
making a total of 3,300,000 nuts and producing 660 tons of copra.
Investments are as follow:
CFAF
Cost of Kiln                           5,750,000
Storage Shed                           2,000,000
Supervisor's housing                     815,000
8,565,000
Life = 15 years giving a production of 9,900 tons of copra
Cost per ton of copra produced:               CFAF          865
Labor  1 Supervisor, per year CFAF           550,000
30 workers at CFAF 180,000/year   5,400,000
TOTAL               5,950,000 = per ton  9,015
Transport per ton                                                 2,000
Tools machetes, bicycles, etc. per ton                              350
Operating expenses including maintenance CFAF 330,000/year          500
Packing 18 bags per ton at 50 CFAF =                                900
TOTAL per ton CFAF                       13,630



ANNEX V
Table 2 (Cont'd)
Rounded at CFAF 13,750 per ton
II.  Charcoal
An oven processes about 2500 shells each day, which produces about
120 kg of charcoal, i.e. 35 tons per year.
Cost of one oven is CFAF 300,000 and its life is 3 years.
The investment cost per ton of charcoal is therefore          CFAF        3,000
Transport and small tools are estimated per ton at            CFAF        1,500
Labor estimated at 10 mandays per ton at CFAF 600             CFAF        6,000
Packing in bags of 50 kg at CFAF 240 per bag, per ton    CFAF             4,800
Storage and other miscellaneous expenses                      CFAF        1,134
Total cost per ton CFAF                             16,434



IVORY COAST
Fourth Oil Palm and Coconut Project
Project Cost Estimates
('000 CFAF)
1976       1977       1978      Total            Foreign Exchange                Taxes
PYl        PY2        PY3                                 Cost                       Amount
T. COCONUT ESTATES
Land Preparation and Access Roads                                 775,630   480,890   151,620   1,408,140              75       1,056,105        12         168,977
Land Development Costs                                            166,506   313,710   312,269        792,485           40         316,994         9          71,324
Estates Operating Costs                                            53,694    98,314   104,482        256,490           52         132,720         8          19,509
Investments
(a)  Buildings                                                 -       233,438    37,438       270,876           60         162,526        15          40,631
(b)  Vehicles                                                33,800    42,500       8,100       84,400           90          75,960         -
(c)  Equipment                                               B3.800    74600         -         158,400           70         110.880        15          23.760
Sub-Total                                 1.113,430 14243 452                2 970 791           63               5        11         324,201
II. OIL PALM ESTATES
Land Preparation and Access Roads                                 405,900   879,450   947,100   2,232,450              75       1,674,338        12         267,894
Land Development Costs                                             88,863   292,429   300,447        681,739           30         204,522         7          47,722
Estates Operating Costs                                            10,270   104,065   167,340        281,675           54         153,591         8          21,917
Investments
(a)  Buildings                                               77,563   357,375   237,500        672,438           60         403,463        15         100,866
(b)  Vehicles                                                42,300   113,500    79,400        235,200           90         211,680         -            _
(c)  Equipment                                                          74.600    74.600       149.200           70         104 440        15          22 380
Sub-Total                                   624,896 1,821.419 1,197.537   422  707               65       2.752 034        Il_
III. OUTGROWERS PROGRAM
Extension - Staff                                                   1,200      6,745    14,170        22, 115           -            -            5           1, 106
- Investments                                            -         19,000    17,625        36,625           50          18,313       12            4,395
Loans to Farmers  - Inputs                                         14,929    56,755   126,065        197,749           40          79,559         9
- Cash advances                                 680       27,975    62,27         97.05             -            -
Sub-Total                                    22.929   110.475   220 135        353 539                       97 872         723 440
IV. SOUTHWEST MANAGEMENT
Staff                                                              20,930    25,500    25,500         71,930           65          46,750         5            3,597
Operating Expenses                                                  5,000      7,000      9,000       21,000           50          10,500        15            3,150
Investments
(a)  Buildings                                               21,750    41,750       6,000       69,500           60           41,700       15           10,425
(b)  Vehicles & Equipment                                     7.900      9.900      2.000       19.800           60           11i820       15            2,970
Sub-Total                                    55.580    84,150    42.500        182.230           61         110,770        h1          20,142
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                                  1,816,835 3,259,496 2,682,931   7,759,262              61       4,815,861        il          828,567
Physical Contingencies 1/                                         151,637   254,920   192,964        599,521           66          396,586       12           71,943
Estimated Price Increases 2/                                      118,181   636,322   837.973   1,592.476              63          998 033       il         175 172
TOTAL ESTIMATED COST OF PROJECT                                   2.086,653 4.150,738 ZL1368   9.951.259                62                        1       1,075 682
1/  Physical  contingencies of 10% on Land Preparation,access roads and buildings; 5% on all other costs,
salaries excluded.
2/  Price contingencies compounded as follows:
(a) Land Preparation, roads and buildings 13% in 1976 and 12% thereafter;
(b)  Vehicles and equipment 9% in 1976 and 8% thereafter;
(c) All remaining costs 10% for each year.
These contingencies have been calculated on base cost estimates plus physical contingencies in any year,
compounding price-increase factor in prior years and one-half of the price-increase factor in the year
concerned.



IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Land Preparation and Development Costs
I. COCONUT ESTATES
Foreign Currency       Tazes
lst Year   2nd Year   3rd Year  TOTAL           %      Cost         %      Cost
A - Land Clearing                            141.690
B - Access Roads                             h44,46o                   6,ooo
Sub-total       186.150                   6,ooo   192,150       75    144,113      12   23,o6o
Yearly Land Preparation Costs (in CFAF    PY 1           PY 2         PY 3      TOTAL
million)
1976: 2000 ha                            372.300                  12.000   384.300
1977: 3250 ha                            403.330    201.658                 604.988
1978: 2250 ha                                        279.232    139.620   418.852
Total Land Preparation Costs        775 630   .480.890    151.620 1,4o8.14o         75  1,056.105       12  168.977
C - Development Costs per ha (in CFAF)    lst Year   2nd Year   3rd Year  TOTAL
(a) Field Labor                           13,750       8,ooo       8,000    29,750      -                    5    1,488
(b) Transport costs                        1,070         945         945     2,960      80       2,368      10       296
(c) Seedlings                             41,600       2,080         -      43,680      15       6,552      10    4,368
(d) Fertilizers                            4,748       8,544      16,480    29,772      85      25,306      10    2,977
(e) Wire netting                          17,000                            17,000      85      14,450      10    1,700
(f) Cover plant                            3,000                              3,000               -          -       -
(g) Small equipment, etc.                  2,085       2,000       2,000      6,085     75       4,565      15       913
Sub-total        83,253      21,569      27,425   132,247       40      53,241       9   11,742
Yearly Development Costs(in CFAF million)  PY 1           PY 2       PY 3       TOTAL
1976: 2000 ha                            166.506      43.138      54.850   264.494                                           3
1977: 3250 ha                                        270.572      70.099   340.671
1978: 2250 ha                                                    187.320   187.320                                         CD 
roT 
Total Development Costs        166.5o6    313.710    312.279   792.1485        40   316.9914       9    71.3214



IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Land Preparation and Development Costs
II. OIL PALM ESTATES
Foreign Exchange       Taxes
lst Year   2nd Year    3rd Year    TOTAL           %      Cost          %    Cost
Cost per hectare (in CFAF)
A - Land Clearing                          102,400      51,200                  153,600
B - Access Roads                            32,900      16,450                   49,350
Sub-total        135,300      67,650        -         202,950      75    152,213        12    24,354
Yearly Land Preparation Costs             PY 1        PY 2         PY 3         TOTAL
(in CFAF million)
1977: 3000 ha                         405.900    202.950                    608.850
1978: 5000 ha                                     676.500      338.250   1,014.750
1979: 3000 ha                                     -   -        608.850      608.850
Total Costs      405.900    879.450      947100   2 232 45        75  1,674.338        12   267.894
C - Development Costs per ha              lst Year   2nd Year    3rd Year    TOTAL
(in CFAF)
(a) Field Labor                        13,500      23,000       10,000       46,500       -                    5     2,325
(b) Transport costs                     1,156       5,638        2,291        9,085      80       7,268       10        909
(c) Seedlings                          14,505                    1,918       16,423      15       2,463       10     1,642
(d) Wire netting                                   14,875                    14,875      85      12,644       10      1,488
(e) Fertilizers                                     1,925        5,530        7,455      85       6,337       10        746
(f) Cover plant                                     2,400                     2,400       -        -           -        -
(g) Small equipment                        460         270         230           960     75         720       15        144
Sub-total         29,621      48,lo8       19,969       97,698      30      29,432        7     7,254
Yearly Development Costs
1977: 3000 ha                           88.863    144.324        59.907     293.094                                          (D
1978: 5000 ha                                     148.105      240.540      388.645             _                               c
Total Costs       88.863    292.429       300.457      681.739      30    204,522         7    47.722



ANNEX Vl
IVORY COAST                                      Table 4
Fourth Oil-Palm and Coconut Project
Estates Operating Costs
(in '000 CFAF)
Foreign Exchange       Taxes
PY 1      PY 2      PY 3     Total         %     Cost         %     Cost
COCONUT ESTATES
(a) Staff Salaries
(i) GLIKE  1/                       36,810   30,600    30,195    97,605        4o    39,042        5    4,880
(ii)NERO   2/                         -       32,055    34,100    66,155       4o    26,462        5    3,308
(b) Transport                          9,522    21,128    21,128    51,778       8o    41,422       b0    5,178
(c) Sundry supplies                    7,362    12,531    12,859    32,752       75    24,564       15    4,913
(d) Buildings maintenance 5/            -        2,000     6,200      8,200      15     1,230       15    1,230
Total Costs                53,694    98,314   104,482   256,490        52   132,720        8   19,509
OIL-PALM ESTATES
(a) Staff Salaries
(i)  IBOKE  3/                       6,100    53,540    49,835   109,475       40    43,790        5    5,474
(ii) DEWAKE V                                  5,570    49,490    55,o60      o4   22,024          5    2,753
(b) Transport                          2,950    32,235    42,450    77,635       80    62,108       10    7,764
(c) Sundry supplies                    1,220    11,820    19,865    32,905       75    24,679       15    4,936
(d) Buildings maintenance 5/                       goo     5,700      6,600      15        990      15      990
Total Costs                10C270   1          167,340   281,675       54   153,591        8    21,917
See Table 5 for detailed staff costs of GLIKE Estate
See Table 6 for detailed staff costs of NERO Estate
See Table 7 for detailed staff costs of IBOKE Estate
See Table 8 for detailed staff costs of DEWAKE Estate
Estimated at 1% of building costs for the first year,
2% for the second year and 3% for each of the following years.



IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Estate Operating Expenditure - GLIKE
Staff Costs (in '000 CFAF)
GLIKE Coconut Estate
Type of   Annual
Description           Housing   Salary    PY1       Cost      PY2    Cost      PY3    Cost      Total
'000
Head of Plantation            A       6,500       2   13,000       1    6,500.     1    6,500      26,00o
Assistant                     B       3,500       2    7,000       2    7,000       2    7,000      21,000
Foreman                       E         550       2    1,100      2    1,100       2    1,100        3,300
Gang leaders                  F         135       8    1,080     il    1,485       8    1,080       3,645
Adm. assistant                B       3,500       1    3,500      1    3,500       1    3,500      10,500
Clerk                         F         41o       3    1,230      3    1,230       3    1,230       3,690
Storekeeper                   E         320       1      320      1       320      1       320         960
Nurse                         D         84o       1      84o       1      840      1       840       2,520
Assistant nurse               E         600       3    1,800       3    1,800       3    1,800       5,4oo
Social assistants             D         240       4      960       4      960      4       960       2,880
Mechanics and drivers         F         260      12    3,120     14    3,640      14    3,640      10,400
Cooks                         F         330       2      660      1       330      1       330      1,320
Houseboys                     G         305       5    1,525       4    1,220       4    1,220       3,965
Guards                        G         135       5      675      5       675      5       675      2,025
Total cost (CFAF '000)                              36,810           30,600           30,195     97,605
rH



ANNEX VI
Table 6
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Estate Operating Expenditures - NERO
Staff Costs (in '000 CFAF)
NERO Coconut Estate
Type of   Annual
Description          Housing   Salary       PY2    Cost       PY3    Cost       Total
'000
Head of Plantation           A        6,500       1    6,500       1    6,500       13,000
Assistant                    B        3,500       2    7,000       2    7,000       14,000
Foreman                      E          550       1      550       3    1,650        2,200
Gang leaders                 F          135       7      945      14    1,890        2,835
Adm. assistant               B        3,500       1    3,500       1    3,500        7,000
Head Mechanic                C        2,500       1    2,500       1    2,500        5,000
Clerk                        F          41o       3    1,230       3    1,230        2,460
Storekeeper                  E          320       1      320       1       320         640
Nurse                        D          840       l      840       1       84o       1,680
Assistant nurse              E          600       3    1,800       3    1,800        3,600
Social assistants            D          240       4      960       4       960       1,920
.Iechanics and drivers       F          260      13    3,380      13    3,380        6,760
Cooks                        F          330       1      330       l       330         660
-3ouseboys                   G          305       5    1,525       5    1,525        3,050
Guards                       G          135       5    = 675       5       675       1,350
Total cost (in '000 CFAF)                            _2055           34,100      66,155



IVORY COAST
Fourth Oil Palm and Coconut Project
Estate Operating Expenditure - IEJOKE
Staff Costs (in '000 CFAF)
IBOKE Oil Palm Estate
Type of   Annual
Description           Housing   Salary    Pyl       Cost     PY2    Cost    PY3       Cost      Total
'000
Head of Plantation            A       6,500                        2   13,000       1    6,500      19,500
Assistant                     B       3,500                        2    7,000       3   10,500      17,500
Foreman                       E          550      2    1,100       6    3,300       5    2,750       7,150
Gang leaders                  F         135      12    1,620      31    4,185     26    3,510        9,315
Adm. assistant                B       3,500                        1    3,500       1    3,500       7,000
Workshop head                 B        3,500                       1    3,500       1    3,500       7,000
Clerk                         F         410                        4    1,640       4    1,640       3,280
Storekeeper                   E          320                       1      320       1      320         64o
Nurse                         D          840                       1      84o       1      840       1,680
Assistant nurse               E         600                        3    1,800       3    1,800       3,600
Social assistants             D         240                        4      960       4      960       1,920
Mechanics and drivers         F         260      13    3,380      41   lo,66o      43   11,180      25,220
Cooks                         F         330                        1      330      1       330         660
Houseboys                     G          305                       6    1,830       6    1,830       3,660
Guards                        G         135                        5      675       5      675       1,350
Total cost (in '000 CFAF)                            6,100           53,540           49,835    109,475
Ht 1
i-3



ANNEX VI
Table 
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Estate Operating Expenditures - DEWAKE
Staff Costs (in '000 CFAF)
DEWAKE Oil Palm Estate
Type of   Annual
Description          Housing   Salary       PY2    Cost      PY3    Cost        Total
'000
Head of Plantation           A       6,500                         1    6,500       6,500
Assistant                    B        3,500                        3   10,500      10,500
Foreman                      E          550      2    1,100        6    3,300       4,40o
Gang leaders                 F         135      10    1,350      29    3,915        5,265
Adm. assistant               B        3,500                        1    3,500       3,500
Workshop head                B        3,500                        1    3,500       3,500
Clerk                        F         410                        4    1,640        1,640
Storekeeper                  E          320                        1      320         320
Nurse                        D          840                        1      84o         840
Assistant nurse              E          600                        3    1,800       1,800
Social assistants            D          240                        4      960         960
Mechanics and drivers        F          260     12    3,120       38    9,880      13,000
Cooks                        F         330                        1       330         330
Houseboys                    G          305                        6    1,830       1,830
Guards                       G         135                         5      675         675
Total ('000 CnAF)                                    5,570           49,490      55 060



IVORY COAST
MMVREH OIL PALM AND cOCOrIT PROJECT
INVESTMENTS - Summary
(in '000 CFAF)
Foreign Exchange       Taxes
PY 1      PY 2       PY 3     Total        %      Cost          %     Cost
I    COCONUT ESTATES
(a) Vehicles                           33,800    42,500      8,100    84,400        90    75,960        -      -
(b) Buildings                                   233,438    37,438   270,876         60   162,526       15    40,631
(c) Installations and Equipment        83.800    74.600      -        158.400      _7   110.88o        15    23.760
TOTAL                    117,600   350,538    45,538   513,676         68   349,366        12    64,391
II   OIL PALM ESTATES
(a) Vehicles                           42,300   113,500    79,400   235,200         90   211,680        -
(b) Buildings                          77,563   357,375   237,500   672,438         60   403,463       15   100,866
(c) Installations and Equipment                  74,600    74,6oo   149,200         70   104,44o       15    22,380
TOTAL                    119,863   545,475   391,500                   68   719,583        12   123,246
I- 3 =



IVORY COAST'r
Fourth Oil Palm and Coconut Project
INVE S '1.E N\rS
Il. Velhicles
(in '000 CFAF)
Lorries 6/7t  Tr4ctors 6511P  Station Wagons  Ambulance   Passenger Cars                Total Cost
CFAF 4,100      CFAF 2.700       CFAF 1,800    CFAF 2,500       CFAF 800        1976       1977       1978
A. Coconut Estates
(a) GLIKE    1976            4                3              2              1                4        33,800
1977                           2                                                                    5,400
(b) NERO      1977           5               3               2              1                3                   37,100
1978                           3              _              _                _                                8,100
Sub-total      9               il              4              2                7        33800    42500         8100
B.  Cil Palm Estates
(a) IBOKE    1976            9               2                                                        42,300
1977           8              12               2              1                5                   75,300
1978           1               1                                                                               6,800
(b) DEWAKE   1977            8                2                                                                  38,200
1978        -8                il               2              1                5                         __72.600
Sub-total    34               28               4              2               10                  113500    79.400
TOTAL         43               39              8              4               17                              877500
FID X
H c



IJORI1 (:OAST
FOUIITH OIL FJLM ANI) COCONUT PROJECT
Buildinig Program and Construction Costs
(in '000 CFAF)
COCONUT  ESTATES                                                       OILPALM ESTATES
Unit Cost          CLIKE ESTATE                        NERO ESTATE                       IBOKE ESTATE                         DEWAKE ESTATE
DESCRIPTION                         '000 FCAF py 1   1976       PY 2    1977    PY 2   1977       PY 3    1978       PY I   19/b       PY 2  1977        PY2   1977       PY 3  1978
A.  Estate Buildings
Offices                                6,000      1   6,000                          1   6,000                                           1   6,000                           1   6,000
Storage Shed                          15,000      1  15,000                          1  15,000                                           1  15,000                           1  15,000
B.  Ilouslng
lloutses Type A                       13,000      1  13,000                         1  13,000                                            1  13,000                           1  13,000
Houses Type B                         11,500     3  34,500                          4  46,000                                            4  46,000                           5  57,500
Houses Type C                          8,750           -                             I   8,750                                                 -                                  _
Ilouses Type D                         1,875     7  13,125                          7  13,125                                            7  13,125                           7  13,125
Houses Type E                            812.5   6   4,875                          5   4,063         2    1,625        2    1,625       8   6,500         2    1,625        8   6,500
Ilouses Type F                           562.5  25  14,063         4    2,250      24  13,500         7    3,938       25   14,063      52  29,250        22   12,375       50  28,125
llouses Type G                           375   123  46,125        36   13,500    108  40,500         85   31,875    165   61,875    280 105,000          138   51,750    108  40,500
C.  Social Buildings
Socio-Medical Ceniters                12,500      1  12,500                          1  12,500                                           1  12,500                           1  12,500
Socio-Medical outposts                6,000      2  12,000                          2  12,000                                            2  12,000                           2  12,000
Schools (6 classes)                  17,500                                          1  17,500                                           1  17,500
Schools (3 classes)                    7,000      2  14,000
Village Sanitary Installations         1,500      8  12,000                          8  12,000                                           8  12,000                           8  12,000
D.  Supermarkets                           3,750      1   3.750                          1   3,750                                            1   3,750                          1   3,750
Total ('000 CFAF)                         200,938 -           15,750         217.688             37438             77.563         291,625             65,750          237,500
233.438                                                               357,375
1/   1976 Bulilding costs for GLIKE are giveni here for informatn puirposes only.   They have not been incluoded in the
Total Project Costs since contracts had been awarded, and construction well advanced, by the time of Appraisal.
H 1



IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Number of Field Workers Required
and Housing Units to be Constructed
Coconut Estates
Mandays        Total mandays required          Total housin_junits required
per ha        PYl        PY2         1Y3         EYl         PY2        PY3
I. Coconut Estates
1. GLIKE   2,000 ha  1976                   27.5     55,000
2,000 ha  1977                  16                   32,000
2,000 ha  1978                  16                               32,000
1,500 ha  1977                  27.5                 41,250
1,500 ha  1978                  16             _24,O
Total                          55,000      73,250      56 000
Number of workers required @ 270 days                    204         271         207
Number of units for married (407e)                        82         108          83
Number of units for singles (4 per unit)                  31          41          31                         1/
Total                             113         149         114         113          36
2.  NERO   1,750 ha  1977                   27.5                 48,125
1,750 ha  1978                  16                               28,000
2,250 ha  1978                  27.5                             61,875
Total                                      48,125      89,875
Number of workers required @ 270 days                                178        333
Number of units for married (40%)                                     71         133
Nutber of units for singles (4 per unit)                              27          50                                     1/
Total                                          98         183                      98          85  '-3
1/  Incremental



IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUM PROJECT
Number of Field Workers Required
and Housing Units to be Constructed
Oil Palm Estates
Mandays        Total mandays recuLred          Total housing units required
per ha         Fil       PY2          En3         PY]          PY2         PI-'
II. Oil Palm Estates
1. IBOKE   3,000 ha  1977                      27     81,000
3,000 ha  1977                     46                138,000
3,000 ha  1977                     20                              60,000
2,500 ha  1978                     27                 67,500
2,500 ha  1978                     46                             115,000
Total                           81 000    205,500    175,000
Number of workers required @ 270 days                     300         761         648
Number of units for married (40%)                         120         304         259
Number of units for singles (4 per unit)                   45         115          98
Total                              165         419         357          165         254
2. DEWAKE  2,500 ha  1978                      27                  67,500
2,500 ha  1978                     46       _                     115,000
Total                                       67 500    115,000
Number of workers required @ 270 days                ____250                      426
Number of units for married (40%)                                     100          171
Number of units for singles (4 per unit)                            _  38          64                                       1/
Total                                          138         235                      138           97 -
lt  Incremental



ANNEX VI
Table 14
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
INVESTMENT COSTS - Estates
Installations and Equipment
COCONUT ESTATES        OIL PALM ESTATES
GLIKE PY2 NERO PY3 IBOKE PY2 DEWAKE PY3
A.   Installations
Power, water, sewage connections )
and access roads for Estate center)   10,500    10,500         10,500      10,500
As above, for each village 1/            22,000    22,000      22,000      22,000
Water well 15/20 m3 h                     5,000      -           -           -
Water wells for Estate centers                       1,000      1,000       1,000
Water-towers 5Om3                         6,000      -           -           -
Water-towers 20m3                            -      3,000       3,000       3,000
Sheds for generator sets                   3,100    2,400       2,400       2,400
8 wells for villages                       8,000    8,000       8,000       8,000
Subtotal                     54,600   46,900      46,900      46,900
B.   Equipment
Generator set 200 Kva                      7,000
2 generator sets 90 Kva                    6,000
3 generator sets 90 Kva                             9,000       9,000       9,000
8 water-pumps                              2,000    2,000       2,000       2,000
Electric-pump and pipes                             1,000       1,000       1,000
Workshop equipment                         2,500    2,500       2,500       2,500
Radio network L 43                         1,200    1,200       1,200       1,200
Subtotal                     18,700   15,700      15,700      15,700
C.   Furniture
Office furniture                           2,500    2,500       2,500       2,500
House furniture                            6,000    7,500       7,500       7,500
Storeroom furniture                        2,000    2,000       2,000       2,000
Subtotal                     10,500   12,000      12,000      12,000
TOTAL                        83,800   74,600      74,600      74,600
1/   Each Estate will have 3 villages, a central one and two secondary ones.



IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Outgrowers Program
Detailed Costs in '000 CFAF
Fore   n Exchan           Taxes
PY 1         PY 2          PY 3      Total        if     COst                 Cost
I   COCONUT OUTGROWERS
(a) Cost of Inputs 200 ha 1976        14,929        2,960       4,132
550 ha 1977                   40,779        8}141
1,250 ha 1978                     _779       9286790
Subtotal      14,929       3 9        104,952      163           40   6        5      9        14,717
(b) Extension Work                      1,200       4JQ        11.425        17.575        -        -          5         87
2/
(c) Investments                                   151O0         14.100       29100        50      14,550      12       3,492
(d) Loans           200 ha 1976         6,800       1,400        1,000        9,300
550 ha 1977                   18,975        3,850        22,825
1,250 ha 1978                                 43,125       4___ 125
Subtotal       6 800      20,375       48,075       75,250         -       _                  _
TOTAL COCONUT OUTGROWERS               22,929      84.o64      178.552      285.54S       28      79,o8        7 
II  OIL PALM OUTGROWERS
3/
(a) Cost of Inputs 200 ha 1977                     13,016        1,588       14,604
300 ha 1978                                19,525        19,525
Subtotal                  13,016       21.113       34 129        40     5            9       3,222
2/                              _______      21__L12____77                                  9       3,2
(b) Extension Work                                  1,795        2,7h45          540                            5        227
2/                                                            1
(c) Investments                                     4032 7,525                             50                 12         903
(d) Loans           200 ha 1977                     7,600        2,800       10,400
300 ha 1978                   1_1_ 400                   11,4oo00                                             Xx
Subtotal                   7,600       14           21800          -        -          -       -        H C
TOTAL OIL PALM OUTGROWERS                          26,411       41,583       67,994       25      17,914        6      4,352
GRAND TOTAL      22,929    110,475       220,135      353,539        28      97,872       7     23,439
Footnotes: 1/  See page 4 of Annex IV; 2/  See Table 16; and 3/ See page 1(b) of Annex IV.



ANNEX VI
IVORY COAST                                Table 36
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Outgrowers Program
Extension Services and Investment Costs
(in '000 CFAF)
Annual
Salary
'000 CFAF       PY 1           PY 2          PY 3
1. Extension Work:
Coconut Planting Program (ha)                     200            550         1,250
Oil Palm Planting Program (ha)                                   200            300
Total Program (in ha)                         200            750         1,550
Cumulated Program in hectares                     200            950         2,500
Number of hectares supervised
by group leader                        100            240            250
No.   Cost     No.  Cost      No.  Cost
Group leaders                      600      2   1,200       4  2,400     10  6,o0o
Sector Chief                     3,000                      1  3,000       2  6,000
Drivers/Mechanics                  260                      4  1,040       6  1,560
Guards                             305         ___Q     _  1    305       2    610
Total cost of Extension work:                                 14170
To be applied to:
Coconut Sector                          1,200         4,950         11,425
Oil-Palm Sector                                       1,795          2,745
Total              1,200         6,745         14,170
Unit Cost
2. Investments
(a) Buildings: Sector Offices   4,500                          4,500         4,500
Housing - Sector Chiefs 6,750                         6,750          6,750
Housing - Type F           562.5                      2,250          1,125
"   G          375                                         750
Subtotal                        13,500         13,125
(b) Installations: Water Wells  1,000                         1,000          1,000
I  Towers  1,000                        1,000          1,000
Subtotal                         2,000          2,000
(c) Equipment - Furniture: Pumps                                500            500
Office furniture                              1,000         1,000
Housing furniture                             2,000         1,000
Subtotal                         3,500          2,500
Total Cost of Investments:                     21,000        17,625
To be applied to:
Coconut Sector                                       15,000         14,loo
Oil Palm Sector                                       4,oo          3,525
Total                           19.000         17,625



j,iii;Y COM7.r
FOURTJI OIL PAIM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Southwest Regional Management
Operating Costs ('000 CFAF)
Annual
Salary                                                 Foreign Exchange    Taxes
'000      PYI       PY2        PY3      Total           _      Cost,     _       o
A. Management Staff
Regional Manager              10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000    30,000
Financial Manager              7,500     3,750     7,500      7,500    18,750
Accountant                     3,500     3,500      3,500     3,500    10,500
Secretary                      1,200     1,200     1,200      1,200     3,600
Cashier                          410       410        410       410     1,230
4 Clerks                         320     1,280     1,280      1,280     3,840
2 Accounting Clerks              410       -          820       820     1,640
2 Drivers                        260       520        520       520     1.560
2 Guards                         135       270        270       270       870
Subtotal                     20,930    25,500    25,500    71,930           6S    46..7so     s     Rsg
B. Investments
(i)    Buildings: Offices                         20,000               20,000          60    12,000
Lousing               21,750    21,750     6,ooo    49,500           60    29,700
ii)   Vebicles                          2,4Go     2,40o                4,8o0          90      4,320
(iii)  Equipment u.<q. r'urn-            5,500     7,500      2,000    15,000          so      7.500
iture
SB.total                     29,650    51,650      8,000    89,300          60    53,520                  ?21
C. Oerational Erpenses                    5,000      7.000     9,000    21,000           50    10,500    15      3,1-;0
TOTAL                        55.580    84,150    42,500   182.230           61   110,770   1i    20 142
.0 
D C?
-s l



ANNEX VII
Page 1
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Project Cash Flow
Table 1 shows the project's cash flow in current terms. Following
are the notes that will describe the model used and the way the different
figures have been arrived at.
I.   RESOURCES
A.   Financing
BNDA loan: at 9% interest, capital to be disbursed over two
years during which only interest is due, principal being reimbursed during
five-yearly installments of CFAF 100 million starting on the fourth year.
IBRD loan: commitment charge 3/4 of 1%, interest 8.50% or at the
rate prevailing at the time of loan approval. Four and one-half year grace
period during which only the interest is payable, and the commitment charge
on all undisbursed amounts. Repayment over a 15-year period, starting im-
mediately after the grace period.
B.   Income from Sales
All revenues are in current terms. Tables 3 to 6 show current
CFAF value for each one of the commodities. The basis for this calculation
is the latest, November 1976, IBRD forecast for commodity prices.
II. APPLICATION OF FUNDS
All costs have been computed in current terms. For the years
1976 - 1978 physical and price contingencies are those applied to project
cost; from 1979 on they have been inflated at 7% compounded annually.
Table 2 shows the details of these costs for the agricultural development
and maintenance costs. Industrial investments and pricing costs have
been taken from Annex V.
III. RESULTS
Project cash flow will become positive in 1983, two years after the
first trees have become fruit bearing. All project costs will have been
completely recovered by 1986, the second year when all plantings will have
reached their maturity. From that date on, over the following 19 years,
revenues from the project would be CFAF 4.3 billion per year in 1986 current
terms (US$17 million approximately).



ANNEX VII
Page 2
These results do not take into consideration the additional
Government revenues in indirect taxes and export taxes averaging CFAF one
billion per year from 1985 on (US$ 4.1 million).



IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Project Cash Flow
(in CFAF million)
1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984        1985       1986
RESOURCES
(a) Outside Financing
BNDA Loan                                        250         250
IBRD Loan                                      1,750      2,500         650
Subtotal                            2,000      2 750        650
(b) Repayment of farmers' loans                                                                     1         10         26         52          61         65
Subtotal                                                                             1         10         26         52          61         65
(c) Income from sales-
(i)   Palm Oil                                                                             1,247      2,327       3,173      4,160      4,757      4,757
(ii)  Kernels                                                                                135         273.       390        533        700         700
(iii) Copra                                                                        23        218         921      2,156      3,489      4,466      4,818
(iv)  Coconut Charcoal                                                               2         18         74        169        266        333         359
Subtotal                                                                 25      1.618      3,595      5,888                10,256    l0a634
Total Resources                          2000       2.7-50       650         25      1.619      3.605      5.914       8.500    10,317    10.99
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
(a) Coconut Estates l/                  1,486      1,597        846         489        612        773        838        919      1,017      1,192       1,233
(b) Oil Palm Estates 1/                   726      2,365      2,557         469        599        986      1,256        993      1,092      1,357       1,547
(c) Southwest Management                   62        106         57         104        111        135        127        136        155         155        166
(d) Outgrowers' Program 2/                  26       135         293        470         52        108        188        273         639        881      1,027
(e) Industrial Investments                                                           1,000        650      1,150
(f) Processing Costs                              ____        ___                        6        213        517        791      .1335       1,627      1,827
2.300    4,203  3, 753            1532                            4.076                  4238    5.212         5.800
Repayment of Loans and Interest
BNDA                                               23         45         45        136        127        118        109         100         -          -         1-3
IBRD                                             142        325         404        417        417        720        695        669         635       610
Total Debt Service                          165        370        449        553        544        838         804        769        635        610           t
Total application of funds          2,300      4,368      4,123      1,981       2,933      3,409      4,914      3,916      5,007       5,847     6,410            H
SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                  (2,300)    (2,368)    (1,373)    (1,331)   (2,908)    (1,790)    (1,309)    1,998         3,493       4,470    4,289
Cumulative Cash Flow                          (4,668)   (6,041)    (7,372)  (10,280)  (12,070)  (13,379)  (11,381)    (7,888)    (3,418)             871
1/  Including total project costs for 1976 entirely born by Government.    2/  Including cost of buying production from Outgrowers.



IVPY COAST
FOURTI1 OIf1 PALM AND COCONUT Pll(JE C'
Project Costs, Additional In--estreullt;
and Muitenanoc CnaIges
(inJ D,illion ClF} )
1;976   ~27~        8      1        197-80   3981    !j2       1        19834  ]98         1986
I.    COCONUT ESTIVES
Land Qearing and Acc,ss Boads                 776      481      152       32       45      )45       45      l2        36       32       32
Agricultural Costa                            167      314      312      201      219      222      224      231       228      228      228
Estate Expenses                                54       98      104      115      118      124      130      139       144      148      150
Ilarves Ling                                                                        1       12       31        48       58       66       72
Investnierits a                               319      351       46       25       53      112       92       75        87      132      1D4
Buse Costs    1/    1,3        1,2>I4 >73                    136      5]5      522      535      553
Physical and Price  bntingencies3                               232      116  l76           B       31 6 R                    586       61
Total Cost               86   1.597        146          12    7             _z8        919   1>811 19i1           -a
II .   OIL PALM ESTAIES
Land Oearing and Access lioads                406      879      947       21       56       56        6        56       56       35       45
Agricultural Costa                             89      292       300     151      141      137      123      125       116      115      113
Estate Expenses                                10      104      167      167      167      167      167      167       167      167      167
l1arvesting and Transport                                                          29      120      184i     183       196      198      188
InvestnLents                                  120      545      392       19       34      177      252      131        59      175      222
Base Coats                                1 W 2     358     1-  625  1257      _82      66            0     90591   735
Physical end Price Lbntingencies-l            1o               _ 751   111      172      *329     fl       33,   __;4q8   1.667        8 2
Total Costs             726      365    2,557      49       599      986   1 _2'6    29       1,(QP   I3        1-! M7
III.  SOIJflflllS'' MAN4AEMENT1                      56       84       143      79       79       90        (9       79       90       79       79
6      22       1>)      25        32       45      _l8        7      16      176       ..
Physicul and Price c6r tingericies                               2.1 -, o1                 135      127       36    li          215-    )6fi
IV.   O11TCROWERS PROGtM                            23      110      220      359        37       72      117      159      372      448       488
Physical aund Price oCntingenciea              3       25       73      111       15       36       71      114      4        1433     539 3-9
cil      m   6293 Tab   152   aT 7 3                   u      yr                        1.027ly.
j/   AEi calcul-ated ron project costs until 197(8 (,Annex 6, Table 1);  afterval-ds at 7S coinp,unded yearly. 



ANNEX VII
Table 3
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Value of Palm Oil in Current Prices
Basis - November 1976 IBRD Forecasts
1/
1980: $ 509/ton      1985: $ 737/ton
2/
1981  $ 554  eq. CFAF/ton  107,227
1982  $ 600                  116,130
1983  $ 645                  124,840
1984  $ 691            "     133,743
1985  $ 735                  142,259
Current Value of Oil Palm Production
Year           Tons of ffb       Tons of Oil (at 22%)  Value in CFAF m.
1981             52,850                11,627                1,247
1982             91,100                20,042                2,327
1983            113,500                24,970                3,173
198L            141,400                31,108                4,160
1985 and        152,000                33,440                4,757
on
1/   Cif Europe.
2/   Calculated at CFAF 245=US$ 1., less 21% for export expenses:
insurance and brokerage 3.6%;
freight and handling    12.8%; and,
export taxes               4.6%.
(See Annex X, Table 2).



ANNEX VII
Table 4
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Value of Palm Kernel in Current Prices
Basis - November 1976 IBRD Forecasts
1/
1960:  $ 323/ton      1985   Q 531/ton
2/
1981   $ 365 eq. to CFAF/ton    64,386
1982   $ 407                    71,795
1983   $ 449          "         79,204
1984   $ 490          "          36,436
1985   $591                    104,252
Current Value of Palm Kernels Production
Year          Tons of Kernels        Value in CFAF M.
1981              2,093                    135
1982              3,804                    273
1983              4,927                    390
1984              6,164                    533
1985 and on       6,715                    100
1/  Cif Europe
2/  Calculated at CFAF 245/US$ 1, less 28% for export
expenses: insurance and brokerage 3.6%, freight
and handling 18.8%, and export taxes 5.6%. (See
Annex 10, Table 3).



ANNEX VII
Table 5
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Value of Copra in Current Prices
Basis - November 1976 IBRD Forecasts   1
1980:  $  457/ton  1985:  $  751/ton
2/
1980   $  457 eq. to CFAF/ton 70,986
1981   $  516                  80,150
1982   $  575                  89,315
1983   $  633                  98,324
1984   $  692                 107,488
1985   $  751                 1l6,653
and on
Current Value of~ Cop2ra Production
Year      Coconuts Production       Copra Content   Value of Copra
in thousands of nuts          at 20D          in CFAF M.
1980               1,600                   320              23
1981              13,613                2,722              218
1982              51,538               10,308              921
1983             109,650               21,930            2,156
1984             162,300               32,460            3,489
1985             191,400               38,280            4,466
1986             206,500               41,300            1.,818
1987 and on      213,500               42,700            4,981
1/ Cif Europe
2/  Calculated at CFAF 245/US45 1, less 36.6% processing and export
expenses:
insurance and brokerage 3.6%,;
freight and handling    12.0%;
processing               i5.4k, and,
export taxes              5.6o.
(See Annex X, Table 4).



ANNEX VII
Table 6
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALMI AND COCONUT PROJECT
Projected Price of Coconut Charcoal
1.        The price of coconut charcoal stabilized in 1975 at around L 110.00
per ton CIF European Port. Imports originated from Ceylon which provided
90% of world imports of coconut charcoal. 1/
2.         Since there is no world-wide trading in this commodity, this
price, equivalent to approximately US$200/tor- has been kept as reference
price.
3.        The value of a ton of coconut charcoal is broken as follows:
$/MT CIF Europe              200.-
Eq. in CFAF/Ton 2/        49,000.-
Variable Costs:
Insurance          1.25%
Brokerage           2.35%         3.6% = 1,701
Fixed Costs
Freight                  8,800
Transit                    550
Loading/Unloading          300
Bank Charges                80            9,730
Internal Transport                       1,620         13,051
Value ex-estate       35,949
Less       Processing Costs 3/                         16,434
Value ex-estate 4/                          19,515
Value ex-estate (Efficiency) 5/            22,881 CFAF/ton
1/   Source:  SODEPALM Study of the coconut charcoal market.
2/   At CFAF 245 = US$1.00.
3/   See Table 2, Annex V.
4/   Figure used in Annex X, Tables 4, 7 and 8.
5/   With adjustments of domestic handling and processing costs by Standard
Conversion Factors. Value used in the Economic Rate of Return.



ANNEX VII
Table 7
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Value of Coconut Charcoal in Current Terms
Basis: 1976 Estimated Value
1976 - CFAF i8j4pp/ton FOB 1
2/
1980: CFAF  24,81-          1985: CFAF 3D4,799
1980                =  CFAF 24,814
1981                         26,811
1982                         28,808
1983                         30,805
1984                         32,802
1985                         34,799
Current Value of Coconut Charcoal Exports
Tons Exported          Value in CFAF Million
1980                     80                             2
1981                    681                            18
1982                  2,577                            74
1983                  5,483                           169
1984                  8,115                           266
1985                  9,570                           333
1986                 10,325                           359
1987                 10,675                           3751
1/   From Table 6, CFAF 19,515 less export taxes 5.6e.
2/ Cif Europe.



AT`INE X ,T Tl T
Table I
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
zI,S$ 'OCc)
Disbursements           Undisbursed Amount
Fiscal Year        Quarter      During Quarter       Cumulative    at end of quarter
1977           Fourth                500                             19,500
1978           First              3,000              3,500           16,500
Second             3,000             6,500            13,500
Third              3,000             9,500            10,500
Fourth             3,000            12,500             7,500
1979           First              3,000            15,500             4,500
Second             3,000            18,500             1,500
Third              1,500            20,000



ANNEX IX
Page 1
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Market and Price
Outlook for Palm and Coconut Oil
1.        In terms of their origin, fats and oils can be grouped into
vegetable oils and animal fats (including marine oils). Vegetable oils
can be subdivided further into oils from annual oilseed crops, such as soy-
beans, groundnuts or sunflower seeds, and into oils from perennial tree crops
such as coconut oil, palm oil, and palm kernel oil. Oils of the first group
are liquid at room temperature (in temperate climates) and are therefore
referred to as soft oils. Oils of the second group, called hard oils, have
a higher melting point and are usually solid. Hard oils contain a higher
percentage of saturated fatty acids than soft oils.
2.        During the past decade there has been a significant shift in
the consumption of fats and oils, away from animal fats to vegetable oils,
and within vegetable oils from hard oils to soft oils. This shift reflects
partly the increased supplies of vegetable oils and partly the growing
consumer awareness of potential health risks associated with the consumption
of highly saturated fats and oils.
3.        Technically, most fats and oils are broadly similar.  However,
costs of refining and specific end-use requirements limit the range within
which individual fats and oils can be interchanged. Additional quantities
beyond this range can be marketed only at increasing price discounts vis-a-
vis other fats and oils. This will affect relative prices of hard and soft
oils. According to Bank staff projections, the demand for soft vegetable
oils (soybean oil, cottonseed oil, corn oil, etc.) is expected to expand
faster than the demand for hard oils. While increasing supplies of soybean
oil can be marketed without significant downward pressure on soybean oil
prices relative to other fats and ails, increasing quantities of palm oil
will find a market only at growing price discounts.
4.         Because of their chemical composition or physical properties,
some fats and oils have a competitive advantage in certain end uses.
Coconut oil, for example, prolongs the shelf life of bakery products
and gives soaps their lathering quality. Because these end uses require
a specific oil, it faces a highly inelastic demand in this market. In
end uses where it competes with other fats and oils its demand is highly
elastic. Since the total demand for any given oil represents the sum of
the individual demands for its various end uses, the total demand curve
consists of two parts: an inelastic segment (representing the market for
which exist no or only few substitutes) and a highly elastic part, in
which the oil competes with other fats and oils. This "kinked demand
curve" explains the frequently observed sudden increase in price differen-
tials between fats and oils, a phenomenon which occurs whenever supplies



ANNEX IX
Page 2
fall below the quantities corresponding to the more elastic part of the
demand curve. Regional consumption patterns of fats and oils generally
reflect regional production patterns and natural storage conditions.
Economic protection and lower transport costs play an important role in
the preference of locally produced fats and oils. Most of the fats
(margarine, shortening) consumed in temperate zone developed countries
are manufactured from soybean, cottonseed and sunflower oils. Coconut
oil and palm oil dormiinate the vegetable oil consumption in tropical
and semi-tropical countries.
5.        Demand for fats and oils largely depends on per capita income
levels.  The income elasticity of demand is high at low income levels,
and almost zero at the present per capita income levels of the developed
countries. Annual per capita consumption of fats and oils in most devel-
oped countries has reached a level of about 25-30 kilograms; in many
developing countries it is below 5 kilos. Considering the population of
these countries, even a small increase in their per capita fats and oils
consumption will absorb a sizeable share of world fats and oils supplies.
6.        Between 1974 and 1980 world demand for fats and oils is pro-
jected to grow at an average annual rate of 2.3%. Demand will expand at
a slightly slower rate between 1980 and 1985, for two reasons. First,
because per capita demand for fats and oils in industrialized countries
will approach the saturation level. Second, because it was assumed that
major new importing (developing) countries will face a foreign exchange
constraint; thus, per capita consumption in these countries will increase
only slightly. During this period, total demand will grow from 3.2 to 4.7
million tons, at an annual average rate slightly above that of its popu-
lation growth.
High-Protein Meals
7.        Because of their high protein content, oilcakes are used in-
creasingly in livestock feeding. Demand for livestock and animal products
is closely related to per capita incomes. As incomes rise the demand for
oilcakes continues to grow long after per capita consumption of fats and
oils has reached its saturation level. The long-term market outlook thus
appears to be brighter for oilseeds with a high meal (protein) content
than for those with a high oil content. Copra and palm oilcakes are at
the lower end of the protein-content scale, at 22-23% versus 40% or more
for oils such as soybean, cottonseed and groundnuts.
8.        Demand for oilcakes is expected to grow during the decade ahead,
reflecting economic recovery in the OECD countries. These countries are
expected to account for the bulk of demand for meal, but their share will
decline as the portion of high protein concentrates in feed rations
approaches optimum levels. Additional markets mav open up in Eastern
Europe, the Soviet Union and some developing countries.



ANNEX IX
Page 3
9.         A potential threat to the markets for high protein meals is
single cell protein (SCP), manufactured mainly from natural gas or
petroleum products, and thus unaffected by seasonal factors. The high
nutritional value of SCP is expected to outweigh any risk of toxicity
in animal feeding. The market share SCP will capture depends mainly
on its price relative to the prices of proteins from existing sources.
Although several plants are now in operation, it is not yet possible to
project how SCP will affect the markets for fats and oils.
Supply
10.        The supply of fats and oils is highly price inelastic, for two
reasons.  First, because the supply of oils from tree crops, such as
palm oil, coconut oil and palm kernel oil, is highly inelastic. Second,
because many fats and oils are recovered as by-products in the processing
of oilbearing materials. Marine oils are extracted jointly with fishmeal
from marine animals. Animal fats are a by-product of meat and milk pro-
duction. Although the demands for each of these products is independent
and affected by different market forces, their supply reflects the demand
for both products. Thus the rapidly growing demand for one product, for
example high-protein meals, leads to increasing supplies of the other
product, vegetable oil.
11.        World production of fats and oils has increased on the average
by 2.6% per year since 1955-57, from 28.04 to 42.27 million metric tons
in 1971-73. The supply of oils from annual field crops has increased
most rapidly, mainly because of the expansion of soybean production (United
States, Brazil), the production of sunflower seed oil (USSR, Eastern Europe)
and the increased output of rapeseed oil (Canada, France). Hard oils,
particularly palm oil, showed the second largest increase.
12.        In the decade ahead (1976-85), production of fats and oils is
expected to grow at an average annual rate of 2.6%. The strong demand
for livestock products will lead to a continued strong demand for high
protein meals.  aost of the oil supply will come therefore from oilseeds
crushed for meal. Soybeans, because of the high protein content of their
meal, are expected to face the strongest demand. Brazil has recently
become a major producer and exporter of soybeans, and is expected to
continue expanding production in the decade ahead. The supply of fats
and oils will be further increased by the expansion in the production
of palm oil, as extensive plantings reach their productive stage. The
projected expansion in livestock production will, in turn, increase the
output of animal fats. Marine oils output is expected to grow at 1.7%.
Projections
13.        The demand for fats and oils was projected by the Bank's analysts
individually for 145 countries on the basis of projected (real) per capita
incomes, population, and a price index for fats and oils. Prices for
individual fats and oils were determined simultaneously by the supplies of
all fats and oils and the ratio between stocks and demand. Projects GNP



ANNEX IX
Page 4
determined the demand for high protein meals. Because oil and meal
are recovered in nearly fixed proportions, the price of the raw material
(oilseed) is determined by the combined value of the extracted oil and
meal minus the crushing margin.
14.       Prices for fats and oils (in real terms) displayed no clear
trend between 1960 and 1972. In 1973 prices began to increase sharply,
mainly in response to a shortfall in supplies of lauric oils. Prices
advanced further in 1974, due to a 20.4% decline in the US production
of soybeans, which was only partially offset by increased output in
Brazil. Prices for oilcakes displayed a similar pattern. In 1974, prices
for high protein meals dropped because of the worldwide recession and a
decline in livestock production. A 17% increase in world soybean pro-
duction conbined with good harvests of other oilseed crops during 1975
caused prices of fats and oils to fall to about their level during the
sixties. Prices for most oilcakes declined only slightly.
15.       Barring any major reductions in projected supplies, prices (in
real terms) for fats and oils are expected to decline in the first half
of the projection period (1976-80) from their extremely high levels in
1974. In the second half of the projection period, population growth
and rising per capita incomes in developing countries are expected to
raise their domestic consumption of fats and oils. Hence, prices for
vegetable oils and fats are expected to drift upwards again between 1980
and 1985. Projections as to their exact level vary with assumptions as
to the relative strength of supply and demand factors.
16.       Projections of prices, production, and exports are given in
Tables 1, 2, and 3.



A Il]EX :X
Table I
Table 6:  PRUCES FOR SELECTED FATS A'!OD OILS,
ACTUAL 1975, PROJECTED 1976-85
(in terms of 1974 constant Ute$)
Fat/Oil                      1975   2976   )977   1979   1979   ]98o 2'qn
Soybean         current       619    376    l17    462    507    556    93h
constant      5hi    300    307    315    322    330        395
Sunflover       current       739    600    616    630    6h5    654  1,041
constant     6h5    IJ79    b54    h3    410    388    ! Lo
Groundnut       current       857    675    712    719    788    815  1, 355
constant      7118    539    525    511    500    485       573
Cottonseed      current       726    6 5    647    6L8    645    6bl  1,159
constant      63h    515    477    h42    hio    380        L9o
Rapeseed        current       551    390    19    UJB8  l47       506     856
constant     481    312    309    306    303    300         362
Olive           current    2,436  2,350  2,171  1,998  1,831  1,669   2,866
constant   2,128  1,877  1,600  1,363  1,162    990  1,212
Palri           current       433    370    399    429    459    489        757
constant      378    206    29h    293    291    290        320
Ccconut         current       393    340    47    476    567    666   1,123
constant      313    271    300    325    360    395        L75
PaJm Kernl    current        139    360    L21    491    567    6,8   1,08.
constant      383    288    310    3j5    360    390        L60
Sourco:  IBRD
EPD/CE harch 1976



WORID PRODUCTION OF SELECTED OILSEEDS, FATS AND CILS (FAT OR CIL EQUIVALENT),
ACTUAL 1960, AVERAGE 1967-69, 1975, PROJECTED 1980 AND 1985
(In 1000 Metric Tons)
1960            1967-69              1975               19d0               19b5
Fat/Oil          1000 MT 4 Share  1000 HT  % Share  1000 MT  % Share  1000 MT  % Share  1000 HT  % Share
Soybean Oil       3,295    12.3      5,358    15.5      8,550    19.2    11,900    22.4      13,500    23.2
Sunflowerseed Oil 1,665     6.2      3,652    10.5      4,070     9.2     5,200      9.u     5,Loo      9.3
Cottor,seed Oil    2,165    8.1      2,310     6.7     3,005      6.8     3,400      6.1     3,700      6.4
Gra-ar.dnut Cil   2,555'    9.6      3,248     9.4     3,245      7.3     3,600      6.8     3,800      6.5
Rapeseed Cil      1,105      4.1    1,655      4.8    2,495       5.6     2,800      5.3     3,000      5.2
Olive Cil         .,180     4.4    1,307       3.8     1,500      3.4     1,600      3.0     1,700      2.9
Palr Oil          1,250      4.7    1,382      4.0    2,925       6.6     4,600      8.7     5,900    10.1
Coconut Oil       1,955     7.3      2,072     5.9     2,515      5.7     3,000      5.6     3,200      5.5
palm Xernel Oil     440    1.7         383     1.1       695      1.6       900      1.7     1,000      1.7
Pish Cil            462     1.7      1,058     3.0     1,250      2.8     1,300      2.4     1,LOO      2.4
Butter            3,855    14.4      4,017    11.6      5,135    11.5     5,300    10.0      5,500      9.4
Tallow            3,050    1.k      4,228    12.2      5,085    11.4     5,500    10.2      5,900    10.1
Lard              3,733    14.1      3,988    11.5     3,950      8.9     4,100      7.7      4,300     7.3
TTAL             26,710   100.0    34,658   100.0    44,420   100.0    53,200   100.0    58,300   100.0
Sources:  USDA: 1960-69
IBRD: 1975-85
Commodities and Export Projections Division
Economic Analysis and Projectious Department
Development Policy Staff
March 5, 1976                                                                                                   x
I-D



Table 2: W!YOP?LD EXPORTS OF SELfCTED OILSFEDS, FATS AMD OILS (FAT OR OIL EQUIVALENT),
ACTUAL 1960, AVElAUG  1967-69, 1975 PROJECTED 1980 Al`I,D 1985
(In 1000 metric tons)
1960             1967-69               1975               1980                1985
rat/Cil             1000 MT  Share  1000 IM5  % Share  1000 MT  % Share  l000 MIT    Share  1000 MIT    Share
SCTca&. C-1        1,0Lo     19.8      1,991    19.8      3,565    27.1       14,900    28.0      5,700    27.8
'.nfl, c;erseed Oil    2145     3.3      1,138    11.3        765      5.8      1,250      7.2     1,300      6.3
Ccttcrnsed Cil        29h    14.1         226      2.3       k25      3.2        1460     2.6        510      2.5
9sr c;<r-. t 011       826    11.4       1,037    10.3        7145     5.7        9140     5.1        950     L .6
?.~&ssed Oil             92     1.3       1439    14.14       7145     5.7        920      5.3      1,020      5.0
C2ive C                 69      1.0         82      0.8        63      0.5        100      0.6        110      0.6
P.alr. Cil             587      8.1        607     6.0      1,800    13.7       3,050    17.5    L,690    22.9
Coconut- cil         1,152    15.9       1,182    11.8      1,1425    10.8      1,650      9.14    1,750       8.5
Pa"r K:ernel 0il      107      5.6        299      3.0       396      3.0        1420     2.4        135     2.1
FLsh 011               222      3.1        672      7.7       600      h.6        7140    1.2        790     3.9
nutter                 1426     5.9        5114     5.1       717      5.5        790      14.5       830     L.1
 lsw                1,076    14.9       1,1 147    114.4   1,U100    10.7      1,820    10.1      1,950      9.5
1407    5.6        4o09     4.1       1490     3.7       14L0      2.5        VOC    2.2
TOTAL                7,243   100.0    10,0h3,  100.0    13,136   100.0    17,1480   100.0    20,1495   100.0
Sour-es:  USDA: 1900-69
imD: 197y-85
EPDC E
Atril 9, 1976
PPollak



ANNEX X
Page 1
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation and Results
1.        Rates of return have been calculated using "efficiency analysis." 1/
This technique shadow prices labor to reflect the opportunity cost of
employment on project activities; and adjusts costs and benefits for
tariff and trade distortions by the use of conversion factors. It is
analogous in principle to the current Bank practice of shadow pricing labor
and using a shadow exchange rate.
A.   Methodology and Assumptions
2.        Brief notes on the calculation methodology are given below.
1)   Project Life - 30 years
2)   Valuation base - 1976 constant terms at border prices
adjusted as appropriate by a standard conversion factor
(SCF) of 0.83.
3)   Yields - As in Annex III Table 2.  These yields reflect
the experience in Ivory Coast with similar plantations.
4)   Output unit values - Output values for palm oil, palm
kernels and copra are based on Bank forecast world prices
(EPD memo November 23, 1976) with calculations as given in
Tables 2, 3 and 4. Market outlooks are discussed in
Annex IX. The value of coconut charcoal is taken from
Annex VII, Table 6. Output values are presented at
border prices with domestic handling and processing
costs adjusted by the SCF. For each project component,
output prices are calculated at the level of handling
and processing that is entered in the costs stream.
1/   For background theory refer to "Economic Analysis of Projects" by
L. Squire and H. van der Tak; World Bank Research Publication 1975.
Full details of the methodology and data assumptions used in the
efficiency analysis for this project are contained in the Fourth
Oil Palm and Coconut Project Efficiency and Social Economie Analysis
Case Study; K. Oblitas, June 1976. The case study also calculates
"social" rates of return which, in addition to the efficiency analysis
adjustments, also allow for the net social costs or benefits of the
consumption changes of project participants estimated in relation to
country objectives concerning growth and income distribution and the
income levels of the participants. Social analysis results are confined
to the case study report.



ANNEX X
Page 2
3.        Costs - Costs take into consideration on-farm development costs
and additional investments in processing and transport facilities as well
as recurrent expenditures related to processing and transporting of project
output over the life of the project. Input prices are based on observed
prices updated to 1976 terms and include allowances for transport to the
project. Costs are expressed net of identifiable taxes. The domestic
component of non labor costs are adjusted by the SCF.
4.         Social infrastructure (schooling and medical facilities) and
housing have been fully costed net of tax. This procedure reflects the
mission's judgement that these items are necessary elements of the project,
being needed to attract project participants to the area.
5.        Full details of the assumptions and data used in the efficiency
costing of labor are given in the case study. Expatriates and project
staff are costed at the wage net af tax (the latter adjusted by the SCF).
Ivorian manual estate labor and outgrower labor is costed at their estimated
opportunity costs adjusted by the SCF. Non Ivorian manual estate labor
is costed in terms of income transmittals abroad and SCF adjusted local
consumption. The resultant annual efficiency costs of US$83 and US$33 for
Ivorian estate labor and outgrower labor are 14% and 8% respectively of the
costs imputed at market wage rates, and reflect the estimated low opportunity
costs of these labor categories. 1/
Presentation of Analysis
6.        Calculations of unit output values are found in Tables 2, 3 and 4 in
Annex VII, Table 6.  Cost Benefit streams are found in Tables 5 to 9 and econo-
mic rate of return results are on page 7. In the cost-benefit streams, benefit
and cost figures are first presented net of tax and without adjustments for
tariff distortions, and labor is costed at the net of tax market wage rate.
Underneath each total line is an "adjusted total" which is the cost or benefit
stream calculated using efficiency analysis. The adjusted totals have been
used for calculating the economic rates of return. This presentation has been
used so that a more complete breakdown of cost categories can be illustrated
than were available from the case study analysis.
B.   Costs Allocation and Decision Criteria
7.        In addition to the whole project rate of return, separate rates
of return were calculated for each project component; estate oil palm, estate
coconut, outgrower oil palm and outgrower coconut.
1/   See Note 1 on preceding page.



ANNEX X
Page 3
8.        A number of different assumptions can be made regarding the alloca-
tion of costs between the project components, each useful in its particular
decision context. The cost allocation procedure used here was based on
a "marginal change" decision framework - that is, the analysis was geared
to answering the question: "Given the existence of the estates, what addi-
tional costs and benefits accrue due to the addition of a relatively small
sized outgrower program or a small change in the size of an existing out-
grower program and what are their rates of return?" (Referred to hereafter
as "decision criterion one"). This decision framework reflects the mission's
judgement that a large scale plantation in this area could not be run entirely
on outgrower lines due to labor availability constraints and that it would be
necessary to have a plantation program based, at least initially, on estates.
In the mission's judgement the relative size of the outgrower program in
relation to the estates, and the manner in which outgrower plots are inter-
mingled with estate plots, provides a situation where the costs of central
management, infrastructure and access roads would be little affected even if
the outgrower components did not exist. All central management, access roads
and some central infrastructure have therefore been costed to the estates
and the outgrower programs have only been allocated direct costs such as
extension services, fertilizers, tools, and identified outgrower specific
project costs and investments.
9.        An alternative approach which will be called "decision criterion
two" would analyze to answer the question: "Given no administration, labor
availability, country policy and other constraints on the decision process,
what balance between outgrower and estate components should the initial
project design reflect?" (The resulting decision might of course only
choose one of the four project components and the real situation is likely
in fact to be further complicated by complementarities existing between
project components.) For this calculation all costs would need to be
allocated so that each component could stand independently. A full
efficiency analysis calculation to answer this question has not been done
here but an indication of the effect that the different decision criteria
cost allocations have upon the rates of return is provided in the table
below. The costs of the Southwest Management and access road elements
are for decision criterion one allocated entirely to the estates. For
decision criterion two these elements are allocated to all four project
components in proportion to planted area. The rates of return in the
table are calculated using what will be termed for designative convenience
"tax-adjusted market analysis": Labor has been costed at the market wage net
of tax (outgrower labor on a per diem basis at the net of tax daily wage of
estate laborers), non labor costs are expressed net of tax without SCF adjust-
ment and benefits are calculated as for efficiency analysis but without SCF
adjustment on domestie processing and handling.
10.       Using decision criterion one, the presence of the outgrower
components in the project and a marginal expansion in the size of the
outgrower components appears justified. Rates of return calculated for
decision criterion two are more closely in line with each other. This



ANNEX X
Page 4
result has been achieved by the simple reallocation of the access roads and
Southwest Management costs and may still be incomplete as certain central
infrastructure costs are still retained entirely by the estates. Taking
outgrower costs up by 10% makes the rates of return between project compo-
nents fairly similar though oil palm outgrowers still emerge favorably.
"Tax-Adjusted Market Analysis" Rates of Return under Different /1
Decision Criteria
Oil Palm  Coconut  Oil Palm   Coconut    Whole
Estates   Estates  Outgrowers Outgrowers Project
Decision Criterion One
Estates already present or
decided upon. Decision
concerns the desirability
of small outgrower components
and/or marginal changes in size
of outgrowers components.
(Costs of access roads,
S.W. Mlanagement and some
central infrastructure
allocated entirely to
the estates.)
Point Estimates               16.0    16.9      30.5       22.6        17.1
Decision Criterion Two
Decision at initial project
design stage or concerning
a major change in the sizes
of project components. No
constraints on choice of
oil palm versus coconut
and estate versus outgrower.
(Costs of access roads and
S.W. M4anagement allocated
in proportion to land area.)
Point Estimates               16.4    17.1      25.0       19.4        17.1
Outgrower Costs+10%             -        -      23.3       17.9          -
Outgrower Costs+20%             -        -      21.7       16.7
/1   Costs and benefits expressed net of tax but without adjustments for foreign
exchange distortions. Labor costed at net of tax market wage rates.



ANNEX X
Page 5
C.   Results
11.       Efficiency rates of return and sensitivity tests analyzed under
decision criterion one are presented in the table below. All rates of
return are at acceptable levels and are characterized by low sensitivi-
ties to changes in costs or benefits. The outgrower components have sub-
stantially higher rates of return than the estates indicating the desideratum
for retaining a flexible approach to the project component ratios and perhaps
increasing the size of the outgrower programs during project implementation.
12.       The mission decision on project component ratios has been deter-
mined by labor and administration constraints and by experience gained
from other tree crop projects in Ivory Coast. The mission recognizes the
potential advantages of increasing the size of the outgrower project
components and recommends that such considerations be borne in mind during
project implementation and the planning of any further development of oil
palm and coconut in the area (para 3.05). Further insights upon project
component ratios and also on pricing policy for outgrowers are provided
by the social analysis in the case study of this project.
1/
RATES OF RETURN
Oil Palm  Coconut   Oil Palm   Coconut   Whole
Estates   Estates  Outgrowers Outgrowers Project
Point Estimate /2                19.4     21.0        42.6        28.3     21.1
Sensitivity:
Benefits down 10%          17.3      17.3        40.0       26.5      19.2
Costs up 10%               17.5      17.5        40.0       26.7      19.4
Benefits down 20%          15.0      15.0        37.2       24.5      17.2
Costs up 20%               15.8      15.8        38.2       25.2      17.9
Benefits up 10%            21.3      21.3        45.1       30.0      22.7
Costs down 10%             21.5      21.5        45.3       30.2      22.9
Benefits up 20%            23.1      23.1        47.3       31.5      24.3
Costs down 20%             23.9      23.9        48.4       32.3      25.0
1/   Efficiency analysis, decision criterion one.  (Access roads, S.W.
Management and certain central infrastructure costed entirely to
the estate.)
2/   The whole project rate of return calculated using market wage rates
and without adjusting costs and benefits by conversion factors would
be 17.1%. Rates of return for each project component using this method
of analysis are presented on page 4.



IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Projected Annual Production (tons)
PALM OIL             KERNELS              COPRA           CHARCOAL
A. Estates
1980                            -                     -                300                 75
1981                         11,000                 1980              2487                622
1982                         18,920                 3595              9188               2297
1983                         23,760                 4645             18750               4688
1984                         29,480                 5835             26725               6681
1985                         31,680                 6360             31175               7794
1986                         31,680                 6360             33600               8400
1987 on(maturity)            31,680                 6360             34500               8625
B. 0utgrowers
1980                            -                     -                 20                  5
1981                            627                  113               235                 59
1982                           1122                  209              1120                280
1983                           1210                  282              3180                795
1984                           1628                  329              5735               1434
1985                           1760                  355              7105               1776
1986                           1760                  355              7700               1925
1987 on (maturity)             1760                  355              8200               2050
C. TOTAL
1980                            -                     -                320                 80
1981                         11,627                 2093              2722                681
1982                         20,042                 3804             10308               2577
1983                         24,970                 4927             21930               5483
1984                         31,108                6164              32460               8115
1985                         33,440                 6715             38280               9570
1986                         33,440                 6715             41300              10325                          F-3
1987 on (maturity)           33,440                 6715             42700              10675
(D >
p >X



ANNEX X
IVORY COAST                           Table 2
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Projected Palm Oil
Prices in Constant 1976 terms
(in CFAF/ton)
1980     1981      1982     1983      1984     1985 on
A. PALM OIL
Price forecast in 1976 1/
Constant Terms
$/MT Cif Europe                     378      380       383      385       388       390
CFAF/ton   2/                    92,610   93,100   93,835   94,325   95,0bU   95,550
Variable Costs in
% of Cif Value
Insurance 1.25%
Brokerage 2.35%  3.6%o            3,334    3,352    3,378    3,396    3,422    3,440
Fixed Costs per Ton
Freight     8,00Q
Transit        550
Loading       100
Unloading     200
Bank Charges   80                 8,930    8,930    8,930    8,930    8,930    8,930
Internal Transport                     1,620    1,620    1,620    1,620    1,620    1620
Total Costs        13,612   13,628   13,652   13,668   13,693   13,71.0
Value ex-mill    3/             73726   70,10A   7,07    QO29 (12- O    2=o
Value ex-mill (Efficiency)    79,126   79,598   80,307   80,779   81,488   81,960
B. PALM OIL (OUTGROWERS)
Value ex-mill ton Palm Oil            78,7?8   79,198   79,907   80,379   81.088   8, Ao
Less Processing Costs  5/          6/ 15,500   15,500   15,500   15,500   15,500   15,500
Net value of Palm Oil before Mill-  _          =         '4,4r   '4              a t6 oao
Net value of Palm Oil before Mill
(Efficiency)   7/                     66,261   66,733   67,442   67,914   68,623   69 095
1/ Source EDP Commodity Forecast Tables, November, 1976.
2/ At the rate of US$l=CFAF 245.
3/ This figure is used for the Benefits and Cost Tables 6 and 9.
4/ With adjustments of domestic handIling and transport costs by Standard Conversion Factor.
Value used in Economie Rate of Return Calculations.
5/ See Table 1, Annex V.
6/ This figure is used in the outgrowers' Benefits and Costs Tables 7,8 and 9.
7/ With adjustments of domestic,handling and processing costs by SCF. Value used in Economic
Rate of Return Calculations.



ANIC EX P 
Table 3
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Projected Palm Cil Kernel
in constant 1976 terms
(in CFAF/ton)
1980     1981      1982     1983      1984      1985 on
OIL PAL'IM KERNELS
Price forecast in 1976 /
Constant Prices
$/MT Cif Europe                     240      248       256       264      272       281
CFAF/ton   2/
-58800_  6Q,760_  62760   64_680   6684o   68,845
Variable Costs in %
of Cif Value
Insurance 1.25%                   2,117    2,187    2,259    2,328    2,399    2,478
Brokerage 2.35%     3.6%
Fixed Costs per Ton
Freight    8,ooo
Transit    1,100
Unloading    800
Bank Charges  80                  9,980    9,980    9,980    9,980    9,980    9,980
Internal Transport                   1, 620    1,620    1,620    1,620    1,620    1,620
Total Costs           13,717   13,787   13,859   13,928   13._q,.  14,078
Value ex-mill                 45,083   46,973   48,901   50,752   52,641   54,767
Value ex-mill (Efficiency)i/ 45,555   47,445   4n,377   51,22R   53,117   55,2)J3
1/  Source EPD Comnodity Forecast Tables, November 1976.
2/ At the rate of US$ 1 = 245 CFAF.
3/  Value used in the ?eefits aiuj Costs Tables 6, 7  and 9
t]  With adjustments of domestic hanUiing and trajisport costs by Stan.dard
Conversion Factor.  Value used in Eccnoric Rate of Return Calculations.



IVORY COAST                         Table 4
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Projected Copra Prices in 1976 Terms
(in CFAF/ton)
1980     1981     1982      1983     1984      1985 on
Price Forecast in 1976 -/
Constant Terms
$/MT Cif Europe                 339      351       362      374       385      397
CFAF/ton  2/                 83-055   8s,9Q5   0RqQo  91 63n   94h325  907,65
Variable Costs in ,
c'f Cif Value
Insurance    1.25%
Brokerage    2.35%  3.6/o    2,990    3,096    3,193    3,297    3,396    3,502
Fixed Costs Der Ton
Freight      8,000
Transit      1,100
Unloading      800
Bank Charge  _  80            9,980    9,980    9,980    9,980    9,980    9,980
Internal Transport                f1,620    1,620    1,620    1,620    1_,620    1,620
Total Costs       14,590   14,696   14,793   14,897   14,996   15,102
Value ex-Quay                68,465   71,299   73,897   76,733   79,329   82.163
Less Processing Costs 3           13,750   13,750   13,750   13,750   13,750   13,750
4/
Value ex-Estate, CFAF/ton         54,715   57,549   60,147   62,983   65.579   68,413
Value ex-Estate (Efficiency)5/   57,529   6o.M3   62i961   65,797   68,393   71,227
1/  Source EPD Commodity Forecast Tables, November, 1976.
2/ At the rate of US$ 1 = 245 CFAF.
3/ See Table I, Annex V.
4/ Value used in Benefits and Costs, Tables 5, 8 and 9
5/  With adjustments of domestic handling and processing costs by Stanctarc
Conversion Factors. Value used in Economic Rate of Return calculations.



IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Coconut Estates
Economic Benefits and Costs Streams
(in million CFA)
1990
1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   2005
BENEFITS 1/
Value of Copra                                               16   143      553   1181   1753   2133   2299   2380    2380   2380   2380
Value of Coconut Char-
coal n                                                   12       45      92    130    152    164    168        168    168    168
Total                                              17   155      598   1273   1883   2285   2463   2548    2548   2548   2548
Adjusted Total 2/                                  18   162      626   1330   1972   2394   2579   2668    2668   2668   2668
COSTS
Land Clearing and Access
Roads              683    423    133       28    4h        40     4o      37      32     28      28      28       28     28      28
Agricultural Costs           152    285    284    183    199    202    204    211    209    207    207    207             207    207    207
Estates Expenses              49      90     96    1o6    108    114    120    128    132    136    138    140            ih0    140    140
Harvest                                                       1     il      28      45     54      62      67      70       71     71      71
Investments                  280    308      4o      22      46     99      81      66     77    116       91      75     136    136    136
Southwest Management          25      37     19      35      35     4o      35      35     4o      35      35      4o       35     35      35
Total            1,189  1,1143    572   -3Y7    1429    506    508    522  -W -         585   -5 5-  -5-2-   -         711 -
Adjusted Totar  1095  1,032    492    314    367    439    438    449    468    505    477    480               533    533    533
1/ Processing costs have been deducted
2/ Used for Economie Rate of retura.  See Annex x,para 6.                                                                                     (Dx



IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Oil Palm Estates (Project Area only)
Ecoaomic Benefits and Costs Streams
(in million CFA)
1990 -
1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989 2005
BENEFITS
Value of Palm Oil                                                        871   1512   1910   2390    2584  2584   2584   2584   2584  2584
Value of Kernels                                                          93    176    236    307        348   348    348    348    348   34R
Total                                                      964   1686   2146   2697    2932  2932   2932   2932   2932  2932
Adjusted Total 1/                                          970   1696   2157   2711    2947  2947   2947   2947   2947  2947
COSTS
Land Cearing and Access Roads  357    774    833          18     49      49      49     49      31      4o      4o     4o      40      4o    4o
Agriculture Costs                   83    272    279    140    131    127    114    116    108    107    105    105    105    105   105
Estate Expenses                      9     96    154    154    154    154    154    154    154    154    154    154    154    154   154
Harvest and Collection                                            27    111    171    170    182    184    175    175    187    195   194
Investments                       105    480    345       17      30    155    222    116        50    154    195       86    150    150   150
Southwest Management               25      37      19      35     35      4o     35      35      40      35      35     4o      35      35    35
Industrial Investments                                           720    450    720
Processing Costs                                                          89 32    153    192    239    257    257    257    257    442   442
Tot      a       l                          :3a6   L......46  1 5     618    _3_    822    922    91       57    928  1,121 1,120
&dJueted  cotal 1/   541  1,526  1,404    255  1,D17  1,032  1,445    715    70    902    81O    74P    RM               9     987
-               -  =   -                              -   -    _=_
1/ Used for Economic rate of return. See Annex X, para 6.



IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Oil Palm Outgrowers Program
Ecoinomic Benefits and Costs Straans
(in million CFAF)
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986 to
_____                                                     2005
BENEFITS   1/
Value of Palm Oil                                                                   40      72       78      107      116       116
Value of Kernels                                                                     5      10       14       17       19        19
45      82       92      124      135       135
Total
Adjusted total 2/                                                   47       86       96      130      142       142
COSTS
Project Cests and Cther Investments              23       36       36                2        2                2         3       3
Extension W'brk during Yaintenance                                          6        6        6        6        6       6        6
Farm Labor                               6       il        4       4        4        5        5        5       5        5        5
Small tools                              1        2                1                 1                 1                1        1
Fertilizers                                                                 1        2        2        2       2        2        2
Total                     |       36      4o       41       il       15      15       14       15       17       17
&djusted Total 4          1      23       34       34               10       10        9       10      12       12
1/ Processing costs have been deducted.
2/ Used for Economic rate of Return. See Annex X, para 6.
019



IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Coeonut Outgrowers Program
Economic Benefits and Costs Streams
(in million CFAF)
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987-
2005
BENEFITS 1/
Value of CDpra                                                            1     14        67      200     376      486      527      561
Value of Coconut Charcoal                                                _       1         5       16      28       35       38       40
Total                                                   1     15        72     216      404      521     565       601
Adjusted Ubtal 2/                                       1     16        77     228      426      550     5a7       634
COSTS
Project Costs and other Investments  21         80     168      173      82       61       31       2        4        4       4        4
Extension Work during Mu&ntenance                                19      19       20       20      21       21       21      21       21
Farm Labor                              5      16       24        7       4        3        4       8       il      15       16       16
Small Tools                             1        1       1        1       1        1        1       1        1        1       1        1
Fertilizers                                -           -                 39       39      39       39       39      39       39       39
Total                 27      97      193     200      145     124                71      76       80       81      81
AdJusted Total 2/    21        76     159      178     131      113      86       61       62       63      63      63
S/    Processing costs have been deducted
2/   Tjsed for economic rate oa return. See Annex X, para 6.
CO



IVORY COAST
Fourth Oil Palm and Coconut ProJect
Feonomic Benefits and Costs Streams
(in million CFAF)
1990
to
1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986  1987    1988   1989   2005
Benefits                                               _ _ __ _ _            _ _ _  _ _ __ _ _            _ _ _    _ _            _ _
Value of Palm Oil                                              911   1584   1988   2497   2700    2700  2700    2700   2700   2700
Value of Kernels                                                98    186    250    324    367    367   367        367    367    367
Value of Copra                                          17    157    620   1381   2129   2619   2826  2941    2941   2941   2941
Value of Coconut Charcoal                                1      13     50    108    158    187    202   208        2C,F   20e    208
Total                              18   1179   2440   3727   5108   5873   6095  6216    6216   6216   6216
Adjusted Total 1/                  19   1195   2485   3811   5239   6033   6265  6391    6391   6391   6391
Costs                                                                                                                           ----se-Toal- 
Oil Palm Estates          579  1,659  1,630    364  1,146  1,175  1,618    832    822    922    961    857    928  1,121  1,120
Coconut Estates         1,189  1,143    572    374    429    506    508    522    544    585    556    560    617    617    617
Oil Palm Outgrowers         7     36      40     41     il      15     14      15     17      17     17      17     17      17     17
Coconut Outgrowers         27     97    193    200    145    124       95      71     76      80     81      81     81      81     81
Total             .802  -2935  2          979  1,731  1,820  2       1,439  1,457                   1,              0 1,615  1,515  1,6  1,835
Adjusted Total 1/ 1,657  a,b>o 2,089      782 1,523  1,594  1,98o  1,234  1,,o4  1,3o2  1,390 1, 296  1,416  1,59o  1,595
1/ Tlsed for economie rate of return.  See  -nnex Y, para 6.
(D X
\D X



ANNEX XI
IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
blonitoring Requirements
1.        The Southwest Management will keep annual report of performance
and measure accomplishments against appraisal estimates. These data would
serve both as an essential management tool during the life of the project
and as a major input for the eventual preparation of any follow-up project.
2.        Indicative tables have been proposed (Table 1 for the coconut
sector and Table 2 for the oil palm) and would be finalized with the ex-
ecuting agency during the first supervision mission.
3.        For each item, for each component, and for each project year, the
tables provide for the actual performance (A), the estimate made at appraisal
(E) and a third column for A as a percentage of E. Performance would be com-
pared with the addition of inflation factors, applied to base costs plus
physical contingencies as indicated in Table 1 of Annex 6.
4.        The Southwest M4anagement would, in addition, prepare quarterly
reports on physical progress and expenditures for submission to the Bank.
The format of this report would be prepared and discussed with the executing
agency during the first supervision mission.



IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Reporting Requirements
P 1                                            PY 2                                            PY 3
Actual             Appraisal              A     Actual              Appraisal             A    Actual               Appraisal           A
Unit    Performance (A)    Estimate (E)          -*-    Performance (A)    Estimate (E)          -      Performance (A)    Estimate (E)         T
A.  COCONUT SECTOR
(a) Estates
Land clearing for PY 1           ha                          2000
Land clearing for PY 2           ha                          2000                                            1250
Land clearing for PY 3           ha                                                                          1500                                             750
Plantings                        ha                          2000                                            3250                                            2250
Land Preparation Costs  I/          CFAFm                          776                                             481                                             152
Land Development Costs              CFAFm                          167                                             314                                             312
Estates Expenses
Salaries                       CFAFm                           37                                              63                                              64
Transport expenses             CFAFm                           10                                              21                                              21
Others                         CFAFm                            7                                              15                                              19
Subtotal                                                  54                                               99                                             104
Housing and Buildings               CFAFm                          201                                             233                                               37
Vehicles                            CFAFm                           34                                              42                                                8
Installations and Equipment         CFAFm                           84                                              75                                                _
Staff
Total personnel needed                                        255                                             551                                             648
of whom, field workers                                        204                                             449                                             540
(b) Outgrowers program
Clearing and planting            ha                           200                                             550                                            1250
Loans: Inputs                  CFAFm                           15                                              44                                             105
Cash                    CFAFm                           7                                               20                                              48
1/ All costs are base costs; performance will be compared with the addition of contingencies as indicated in Table 1 of Annex VI



IVORY COAST
FOURTH OIL PALM AND COCONUT PROJECT
Reporting Requirements
PY 1                                              PY 2                                               pY 3
Unit    Actual               Appraisal            A        Actual               Appraisal             A      Actual               Appraisal            A
Performance (A)    Estimate (E)         -E-       Performance (A)    Estimate (E)            -r-    Performance (A)    Estimate (E)           -
A.    OIL PALM SECTOR
(a) Estates
Land clearing for PY 2        ha                           2000                                               1000
Land clearing for PY 3        ha                                                                              3500                                              1500
Plantings                     ha                                                                              3000                                              5000
Land Preparation Costs  1/    CFAFm                             406                                                879                                                338
Land Development Costs           CFAFm                            89                                                292                                               300
Estates Expenses
Salaries                    CFAFm                             6                                                 59                                                99
Transport expenses          CFAFm                              3                                                32                                                42
Others                      CFAFm                             1                                                 13                                                 26
Subtotal                                                  10                                                104                                               167
H     Housing and Buildings            CFAFm                            78                                                357                                               238
Vehicles                         CFAFm                            42                                                114                                                79
Installations and Equipment   CFAFm                                _                                                 75                                                75
Staff
Total personnel needed                                           327                                               1144                                              1283
of whom, field workers                                           300                                               1011                                              1074
(b) Outgrowers roegram
Clearing and planting         ha                              -                                                200                                                300
Loans:  Inputs              CFAFmi                                                                              13                                                 21
Cash               CFAFm                                                                                38                                                14
i/  All costs are base costs; performance will be compared with the addition of contingencies as indicated in Table 1 of Annex VI
ta
SMx






BRID125
APRIL 197
IVORY COAST
FOURTH CIL PALM AND COCONUT
13                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJ ECT
SOUTHW EST
OUTGAOWEH PLANTINGS
OPT ONAL PANCELS
I978~~~~~~~~~~~ 2.500h. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AREAS ANDEA INAESTG.ITION
1979 31300W                                                               8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SECTOR NMEl
- SCONDARY EARTA RO-05
9      --- RACES
INTERNATIONAL BOLND3AEIEA
4 ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                               
NERO COCCNUT
LJ TOTAL- 4,00 1a                                    <fj{4                                                 6  GL'KE COCONUT ESTATE
1AcboA,,n2        o,  tt.m.hd  n
1977  1d,50.n       o.eptoh  b
1 VC    c'o   A  s T
o,,. 
1<  p\<'t~~~~~~~~~~>   oeSt2'<2    ~~~~~~~~~~~~.>r' yA V 






<MALI~~
-~ r ^7 _ r  t >   >,   ,{ UPPER VOLTA
t                                    LTA ~ s    9                                                IVORY COAST
.0M oOD Ne  KORHOO; (  <            '9SODEPALM   OIL PALM
R  Y 0   2 g   }   A                                    EAST OF SASSANDRA
u-i      I   \VOUO OUR OUY 
r      S SEGUELA    /   KeLA   < .OUNDDUKOUp                                             SODEPALM PLANTATIONS
Esisting or in the Coorse of Establishment
j   (DALOAo  gn,oon0o CEN   '   t iOTHERS
,DIc O O AD                           maKORO<tf +tS Stafe and Prlivate Estates
's-        000GAGNOA    <    O  0 I                                                   OIL PALM OUTGROWERS
A~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                          i O41  R.di-LL  f. Mi                                    , l   2 q
LIBERIA         ,            IDAN                                                       Q                                                                               KILOMETERS
-_   Man Roads
-  Secondary Roads
oIcnSfJYo ~ ~    ~     A L"I
OS. SASSANOR   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OS 
r                     I                    X                                      /////--s/   I                          i  XJ'-a                                    0\~~~~~~~~~~~~~tOnt  d45
J 4E(a\MRl>\\W8O8  .  3 4 W      h      a     Vj                                                REPLANTlNGS 9EDaI  k f9  
IB ,BO E,       0.0h.  LoiJ_YA                     N                'L -
IHH0 GRAND DREWIN 
;70        ASSANORA                                          A  T Z A iv F/ C                           O C f A N
BOLO & 3600~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
aS,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.
Ae  aVft bo rOV  on fd mqr do 00*   e
f.d    rnOOOS8nOf ~   taffanO  fy  50 
woddBankonAArnfffiaw;t



