LOAN NUMBER 1382 IVC
Project Agreement
(Substitution)
(Fourth Oil Palm and Coconut Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE PALMINDUSTRIE
Dated      j                         , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1382 IVC
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Substitution)
AGREEMENT, dated $b4-f"k, 1980, between
,INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and SOCIETE PALMINDUSTRIE (hereinafter called
PALMINDUSTRIE).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement (Substitution) of even date
herewith between REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
nineteen million dollars ($19,000,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Loan Agreement (Substitution), but only on
condition inter alia that PALMINDUSTRIE agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a financing agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and PALMINDUSTRIE, the proceeds of the loan provided for
under the Loan Agreement will be made available to PALMINDUSTRIE
on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS PALMINDUSTRIE, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement (Substitution) with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PALMINDUSTRIE shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (except the exten-
sion services under Part E thereof, which shall be furnished by


﻿-2-
SODEPALM) with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, commercial and agricultural
practices.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement by PALMINDUSTRIE of the goods and civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) PAIMINDUSTRIE undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by PALMINDUSTRIE to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, PALMINDUSTRIE
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) PALMINDUSTRIE shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) PALMINDUSTRIE: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (inclu-
ding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such


﻿-3-
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between PALMINDUSTRIE
and the Bank, PALMINDUSTRIE shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by PALMINDUSTRIE and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the PALMINDUSTRIE Project Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) PALMINDUSTRIE shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of PALMINDUSTRIE and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 2.05. PALMINDUSTRIE shall duly perform all its
obligations under the PALMINDUSTRIE Financing Agreement. Except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, PALMINDUSTRIE shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the PALMINDUSTRIE Financing
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) PALMINDUSTRIE shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agree-
ment and under the PALMINDUSTRIE Financing Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) PALMINDUSTRIE shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by PALMINDUSTRIE of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the PALMINDUSTRIE Financing Agreement.
Section 2.07. PALMINDUSTRIE shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire, as and when needed, all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be needed for carrying out
of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PALMINDUSTRIE
Section 3.01 (a) PALMINDUSTRIE shall at all times be managed
by a qualified and experienced Directeur G6n6ral, Directeur
General Adjoint; and a Directeur Technique the terms of refer-
ence of whom shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-4-
(b) PALMINDUSTRIE shall at all times employ experienced and
qualified persons in all of their respective senior management
positions.
Section 3.02. (a) PALMINDUSTRIE shall at all times manage
its affairs and maintain its financial position in accordance with
sound agricultural, commercial and financial practices and, in
particular, shall adequately maintain all the equipment and fixed
assets relevant or necessary for the carrying out and operation of
Parts A, B and C of the Project and promptly make all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the generality
of the foregoing, PALMINDUSTRIE shall, from time to time, review,
in consultation with the Bank, the level of its production costs
to ensure that it operates at all times with due respect to
appropriate agricultural, commercial and financial practices.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PALMINDUSTRIE
shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew
all rights, powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business.
(d) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PALMINDUSTRIE:
(i) shall obtain title to all goods financed in whole or in
part with the proceeds of the Loan free and clear of all encum-
brances; and (ii) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its property and assets which are necessary or
useful in carrying out its operations, except in the ordinary
course of its business.
Section 3.03. (a) PALMINDUSTRIE shall not, without the
prior approval of the Bank, take any action to create any
subsidiary.
(b) The obligations of PALMINDUSTRIE expressed in this
Agreement shall be applied to any subsidiary of PALMINDUSTRIE
as though such obligations were directly binding on any such
subsidiary, and PALMINDUSTRIE shall cause any such subsidiary
to carry out such obligations.
Section 3.04. PALMINDUSTRIE shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) PALMINDUSTRIE shall maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the generality
of the foregoing, PALMINDUSTRIE shall, at all times prepare,
on an annual basis, financial statements (balance sheets, state-
ments of income and expenses, statements of changes in financial
position and related statements) and cost accounting data (comp-
tabilite analytique) for its activities.
(c) Without limitation or restriction upon the generality
of the foregoing, PALMINDUSTRIE shall maintain separate accounts
for the Project, identifying investment cost of operations and
financial results related to the Project.
(d) PALMINDUSTRIE shall compute, on an annual basis and in
accordance with appropriate accounting practices, provisions
and depreciation allowances required for the renewal of its
fixed assets (immobilisations).
Section 4.02. PALMINDUSTRIE shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses, statements of changes in financial position and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of PALMINDUSTRIE and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. PALMINDUSTRIE shall take all action required on
its part to request and obtain promptly as needed such funds as
the Borrower has undertaken to provide or cause to be provided
under Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of PALMINDUSTRIE thereunder shall terminate on the date
on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with
its terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify PALMINDUSTRIE
thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
For PALMINDUSTRIE:
Sociftf PALMINDUSTRIE
B. P. 2049
Abidjan
Ivory Coast
Cable address:
PALMABIDJAN
Abidjan
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of PALMINDUSTRIE may be taken or executed
by its Directeur G4nfral or such other person or persons as he
shall designate in writing, and PALMINDUSTRIE shall furnish to
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their .respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOCIETE PALMINDUSTRIE
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts C and E hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to PALMINDUSTRIE of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Ivory Coast may be granted a margin of preference in accor-
dance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Ivory Coast if the bidder shall have estab-
lished to the satisfaction of PALMINDUSTRIE
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such


﻿-9-
goods includes a value added in the Ivory Coast
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importee would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for buildings will be advertised locally and
awarded in accordance with local procurement procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
2.   Contracts for goods will be advertised locally and awarded
in accordance with local procurement procedures acceptable to
the Bank, provided, however, that the cost of such individual
contracts is less than $100,000 equivalent (including taxes) and
the total cost thereof does not exceed $1,000,000 equivalent.


﻿- 10 -
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, PALMINDUSTRIE shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documehts shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, PALMIN-
DUSTRIE shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform PALMINDUSTRIE and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, PALMINDUSTRIE shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall


﻿reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform PALMINDUSTRIE and state the reasons
for such determination.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works consisting of land clearing and building of
estate feeder roads may be carried out through the use of force
account by PALMINDUSTRIE.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  if      day of        198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


