97
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1382 IVC
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Fourth Oil Palm and Coconut Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT
ET L'EXPLOITATION DU PALMIER A HUILE
(SODEPALM)
Dated March 30, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 30, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and SOCIETE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT ET L'EXPLOITATION DU PALMIEi A
HUILE (hereinafter sometimes called the Borrower or SODEPALM).
WHEREAS (A) The Republic of the Ivory Coast (hereinafter
sometimes called the Ivory Coast) has issued Decree No. 76-854,
dated December 10, 1976 to be published as provided in paragraph (d)
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement, which assigns to the Borrower
the responsibility in the territory of the Ivory Coast for the
execution of the palm tree and coconut tree projects as well as
related regional agricultural and industrial diversification
programs (hereinafter called the Decree);
(B) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(C) by an agreement of even date herewith between the Ivory
Coast (hereinafter sometimes also called the Guarantor) and the
Bank (such agreement hereinafter called the Guarantee Agreement),
the Ivory Coast has agreed to guarantee the respective obligations
of the Borrower in respect of such Loan;
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from Banque Nationale
de D9velopement Agricole (hereinafter called BNDA) a loan (here-
inafter called the Second BNDA-SODEPALM Loan) in an amount of five


﻿-2-
hundred million CFA francs (CFAF500,000,000) to assist in financ-
ing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (hereinafter called the Second BNDA-SODEPALM Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and BNDA;
(E) the Borrower and SOCIETE PALMINDUSTRIE (hereinafter
called PALMINDUSTRIE) have entered into a Contrat de bail
d'ensembles industriels dated March 9, 1977 (hereinafter
called the SODEPALM-PALMINDUSTRIE Contrat de bail) making
arrangements for the Borrower to lease from PALMINDUSTRIE oil
products facilities and related facilities as well as housing
facilities and vehicles;
(F) the Ivory Coast has purchased all of the B and C shares
of SOCIETE PALMIVOIRE (hereinafter called PALMIVOIRE) and all
of the B and C shares of PALMINDUSTRIE and, thereupon, has taken
all action required to dissolve PALMIVOIRE and to cause the
Statuts of PALMINDUSTRIE to be amended accordingly;
(G) the Ivory Coast, SODEPALM and/or PALMINDUSTRIE have
eterminated (i) the Protocole d'Accord (as such term is defined
hereinafter), and (ii) the mandats d'investissement and de gestion
(as such mandats are more fully described hereinafter) whereby
SODEPALM and PALMINDUSTRIE had entrusted to PALMIVOIRE the manage-
ment of industrial oil palm plantations and related operations and
installations and the management of all aspects of business, re-
spectively; and


﻿(H) (a) the proper implementation of the actions referred to
in the foregoing Recitals (F) and (G) has duly taken place, (b)
certain prior agreements among the Ivory Coast, the Bank, SODEPALM,
PALMINDUSTRIE and/or PALMIVOIRE have been amended or terminated,
in whole or in part, accordingly, and (c) such nodifications in-
corporated into an agreement of even date herewith among the
Y'Vory Coast, the Bank, SODEPALM and PALMINDUSTRIE (hereinafter
called the Amending Agreement) have come into full force and
effect;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and con-
ditons hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-4-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being herein-
after called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement (including Sched-
ule 5 hereto), unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) The terms "1969 Loan Agreement No. 611", "1969 Guarantee
Agreement No. (11" and "1969 Companies Guarantee Agreement No. 611"
mean, respectively, the Loan Agreement between the Bank, SODEPALM
and PALMIVOIRE, the Guarantee Agreement between the Ivory Coast and
the Bank, and the Companies Guarantee Agreement between the Bank,
PALMINDUSTRIE and PALMIVOIRE, all entered into on June 13, 1969 for
the purpose of the Industrial Oil Palm Plantation Project;
(b) The terms "1969 Loan Agreement No. 612", "1969 Guarantee
Agreement No. 612" and "1969 Companies Guarantee Agreement No. 612"
mean, respectively, the Loan Agreement between the Bank, PALMINDUSTRIE


﻿5-
and PALMIVOIRE, the Guarantee Agreement between the Ivory Coast
and the Bank, and the Companies Guarantee Agreement between the
Bank, SODEPALM and PALMIVOIRE, all entered into on June 13, 1969
for the purpose of the Palm-Oil Processing Project;
(c) The terms "1969 Loan Agreement No. 613" and "1969 Guar-
antee Agreement No. 613" mean, respectively, the Loan Agreement
between the Bank and SODEPALM, and the Guarantee Agreement between
the Ivory Coast and the Bank, both entered into on June 13, 1969
for the purpose of the Oil Palm Outgrowers and Coconut Project;
(d) The terms "1971 Loan Agreement No. 759", "1971 Guarantee
Agreement No. 759" and "1971 Companies Guarantee Agreement No. 759"
mean, respectively, the Loan Agreement between the Bank, PALMINDUSTRIE
and PALMIVOIRE, the Guarantee Agreement between the Ivory Coast and
the Bank, and the Companies Guarantee Agreement between the Bank,
SODEPALM and PALMIVOIRE, all entered into on June 22, 1971 for the
purpose of the Second Palm-Oil Processing Project;
(e) The terms "1971 Loan Agreement No. 760" and "1971 Guar-
antee Agreement No. 760" mean, respectively, the Loan Agreement
between the Bank and SODEPALM, and the Guarantee Agreement between
the Ivory Coast and the Bank, both entered into on June 22, 1971
for the purpose of the Second Oil Palm Outgrovers and Coconut
Project;
(f) The terms "1974 Loan Agreement No. 1036" and "1974 Guar-
antee Agreement No. 1036" mean, respectively, the Loan Agreement
among the Bank, SODEPALM and PAIMIVOIRE and the Guarantee Agreement
between the Ivory Coast and the Bank, both entered into on July 31,
1974 for the purpose of the Third Oil Palm Project;


﻿-6-
(g) The term "FED PrGt Sp$cial" means the loan agreement
dated June 16, 1969 between, on the one side, the European Econo-
mic Comunities (hereinafter called EEC) and the European Invest-
ment Bank (hereinafter called EIB) acting as agent of the EEC, and
on the other side, the Borrower, in accordance with which funds
have been provided by the European Development Fund (hereinafter
called FED) of the EEC to assist in financing 5,400 ha of indus-
trial oil palm plantations;
(h) The term "First Caisse Centrale SODEPALM Loan Agreement"
means the loan agreement dated June 3, 1969 between the Borrower
and Caisse Centrale de Coopgration Economique (hereinafter called
Caisse Centrale) in accordance with which Caisse Centrale under-
took to assist in financing the industrial oil palm plantation
project described in Schedule 1 to the 1969 Loan Agreement No. 611;
(i) The term "Second Caisse Centrale SODEPALM Loan Agreement"
means the loan agreement dated June 3, 1969 between the Borrower
and Caisse Centrale in accordance with which Caisse Centrale under-
took to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
the 1969 Loan Agreement No. 613;
(a) The term "Caisse Centrale PALMINDUSTRIE Loan Agreement"
means the loan agreement dated June 3, 1969 between PALMINDUSTRIE
and Caisse Centrale in accordance with which Caisse Centrale under-
took to assist in financing five palm-oil mills in Anguededou, Bolo,
Boubo, Soubrg and Tiegba;


﻿-7-
(k) The term "EIB Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement
dated June 16, 1969 between EIB and PALMINDUSTRIE in accordance
with which EIB undertook to assist in financing five palm-oil
mills at Anguededou, Bolo, Boubo, Soubr and Tiegba;
(1) The term "Caisse Centrale - BNDA Loan Agreement" means
the Loan Agreement between Caisse Centrale and BNDA in accordance
with which Caisse Centrale provided BNDA with a loaxt in an amount
of thirty-nine million forty-four thousand French francs for re-
lending by BNDA, (i) in an amount of five hundred thirty-four mil-
lion two hundred thousand CFA francs (CFAF 534,200,000) to PALMIN-
DUSTRIE pursuant to the BNDA-PALMINDUSTRIE loan agreement, dated
November 23, 1971, and (ii) in an amount of one billion four hun-
dred eighteen million CFA francs (CFAF 1,418,000,000) to the Bor-
rover under a loan agreement, dated November 23, 1971 (hereinafter
referred to as the First BNDA-SODEPALM Loan Agreement);
(m) The term "contributions" wherever used in this Loan Agree-
ment has the same meaning as defined in Section 2.02 of the Guarantee
Agreement;
(n) The term "advances" wherever used in this Loan Agreement
has the same meaning as defined in Section 2.02 of the Guarantee
Agreement;
(o) The term "subsidiary" means any corporation, a majority
of whose outstanding voting stock shall be owned, or which shall
be effectively controlled, by the Borrower or by one or more
subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or more
of its subsidiaries;


﻿-8-
(p) The term "FER" means the Fonds d'Extension et de Renou-
vellement, an autonomous fund with full legal personality, estab-
lished pursuant to Law No. 69-246, dated June 12, 1969, and Decree
No. 69-264, dated June 12, 1969, of the Guarantor;
(q) The term "CSSPPA" means the Caisse de Stabilisation et
de Soutien des Prix des Productions Agricoles, a soci4t9 d'ftat
established and organized under the laws of the Guarantor;
(r) The term "outside debt" means the Loan and the loans
provided for under the 1969 Loan Agreement No. 613, the 1969 Loan
Agreement No. 611, the 1971 Loan Agreement No. 760, the 1974 Loan
Agreement No. 1036, the First and Second BNDA-SODEPALM Loan Agree-
ments, the First and Second Caisse Centrale SODEPAIM Loan Agree-
ments, the FED Prit Special and any other loans which the Borrower
may hereafter contract (other than contributions and advances made
by the Guarantor) and which, by agreement between the Bank and the
Borrower, shall be deemed to constitute outside debt for purposes
of this Agreement;
(s) The term "CFA francs" and the letters "CFAF" mean francs
in the currency of the Ivory Coast; and
(t) "Project Directorate" means the directorate referred to
in Section 4.01 (c) of this Agreement.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the-Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for amounts
disbursed with respect to Sub-categories 4 (b) and (c) of Schedule
1 hereto and for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.


﻿- 10 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural, commercial and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services, personnel
in sufficient numbers and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out Part E of the Project in
accordance with the credit policies and procedures as set forth
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be modified
from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower,
and to that end the Borrower shall employ a standard form of oil
palm outgrowers agreement and a standard form of coconut outgrowers
agreement, both of which shall be in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-12-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, con-
tract documents and construction and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions there-
to, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify 1he goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loa= and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire, as and when needed, all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be needed for carrying out
the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.


﻿- 13 -
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the SODEPALM-PAIMINDUSTRIE Contrat de bail. Except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the SODEPALM-PALMINDUSTRIE
Contrat de bail or any provision thereof.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall review the conditions under
which the Project Director shall be located in the Project area
and shall by March 31, 1978, or such other date as the Bank may
agree, consult with the Bank on the date on which such Director
shall be located in the said area.


﻿-14-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times be managed
by a qualified and experienced Dircteur G9n4ral and Directeur
Ggneral Adjoint acceptable to the Bank and employed on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times employ experienced and
qualified persons in all of their respective senior management
positions, and shall consult with the Bank prior to appointing the
Directeur des Plantations and the Directeur des Services Comptables,
both of whom shall be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall at all times maintain a directorate
for the Project and operate such directorate with a qualified and
experienced Directeur du Projet and Cadre Administratif acceptable
to the Bank and shall ensure that such directorate be, at all times,
staffed with competent personnel in adequate numbers.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs and maintain its financial position in accordance with
sound agricultural, commercial and financial practices and, in
particular, shall adequately maintain all the equipment and fixed
assets relevant or necessary for the carrying out and operation of
the Project and promptly make all necessary renewals and repairs
thereof.


﻿- 15 -
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the generality
of the foregoing the Borrower shall, from time to time, review,
in consultation with the Bank, the level of its production costs
to ensure that it operates at all times with due respect to appro-
priate agricultural, commercial and financial practices.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in
the conduct of its business.
(d) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, tb Borrower:
(i) shall obtain title to all goods financed in whole or in part
with te proceeds of the Loan free and clear of all encumbrances;
and (ii) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of
any of its property and assets which are necessary or useful in
carrying out its operations, except in the ordinary course of its
business.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall not, without the prior
approval of the Bank, take any action to create any subsidiary.
(b) The obligations of the Borrower expressed in this
Agreement shall be applied to any subsidiary of the Borrower as
though such obligations were directly binding on any such subsidiary,
and the Borrower shall cause any such subsidiary to carry out such
obligations.


﻿-16-
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records adeouate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the generality
of the foregoing, the Borrower shall, for its own account and on
behalf of PALMINDUSTRIE (within the framework of the SODEPALM-
PALMINDUSTRIE Contrat de bail), at all times maintain accounts
and prepare, on an annual basis, financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses, statements of changes
in financial position and related statements) and cost accounting
data (comptabilite analytique) for their respective activities.
(c) Without limitation or restriction upon the generality
of the foregoing the Borrower shall maintain accounts for the
Project, separately, identifying investment cost operations and
financial results related to the Project.
(d) The Borrower shall, for,its own account and for the
account of PALMINDUSTRIE (within the framework of the SODEPALM-
PALMINDUSTRIE Contrat de bail), compute, on an annual basis and
in accordance with appropriate accounting practices, provisions
and depreciation allowances required for the renewal of their
respective fixed assets (immobilisations).


﻿- 18 -
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
those of PALMINDUSTRIE (within the framework of the SODEPALM-
PALMINDUSTRIE Contrat de bail) and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses, statements of changes
in the financial position and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year
as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and those of PALMINDUSTRIE (within the framework of the SODEPALM-
PALMINDUSTRIE Contrat de bail) and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.


﻿- 19 -
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,
at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the
Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or
(B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions
and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt (other than contributions or
advances provided pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Guarantee Agree-
ment) maturing more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.


﻿- 20 -
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take all action required on its part to request and
obtain promptly as needed such funds as the Guarantor has under-
taken to provide or cause to be provided under Sections 2.01, 2.02
and 2.03 of the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall inform the Bank prior to
undertaking or executing any new project or development other than
the Project or making any investment not related to the Project
(other than investment of idle funds in securities readily conver-
tible into cash) and shall not undertake or execute for its own
account or for the account of any third party or parties any such
project, development or investment if in the judgment of the Bank
such action would materially and adversely affect the financial
condition of the Borrower or the ability of the Borrower to carry
out the Project or to operate the facilities provided under the
Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall not declare or pay dividends
on its share capital if, or if as a result thereof, advances shall
be required to be made by the Guarantor under Section 2.02 of the
Guarantee Agreement.
Section 5.08. The Borrower shall make no payments to FER
after December 31, 1979 if, or if as a result thereof, advances
shall be required to be made by the Guarantor under Section 2.02
of the Guarantee Agreement.


﻿- 21 -
Section 5.09. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) the Borrower shall not repay in advance of maturity any
part of its indebtedness other than under its outside debt; and
(b) if the Borrower shall repay in advance of maturity any
part of its outside debt other than the Loan or the loans provided
for under the 1969 Loan Agreement No. 611, the 1969 Loan Agreement
No. 613, the 1971 Loan Agreement No. 760 or the 1974 Loan Agreement
No. 1036, the Borrower shall simultaneously prepay the same propor-
tion of the Loan and of the loans provided for under the Loan Agree-
ments mentioned above in this Section then outstanding and all the
provisions of the General Conditions relating to repayment in
advance of maturity shall be applicable to any prepayment by the
Borrower pursuant to this Section.
Section 5.10. In the event of liquidation, termination, dis-
solution or winding up of the Borrower the principal and other
amounts payable on the outside debt of the Borrower shall first
be paid before any payment is made on account of advances made by
the Guarantor.


﻿- 22 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely:
(a) that assurances satisfactory to the Bank have been
received by the Bank with respect to the Second BNDA-SODEPALM
Loan to be extended by BNDA to the Borrower;
(b) that the Guarantor shall have earmarked or allocated,
for the first year of the Project execution, all necessary funds
as provided in Section 2.03 of the Guarantee Agreement;
(c) that the Bank shall have dispatched to the Guarantor,
SODEPALM and PALMINDUSTRIE notice of its acceptance of the legal
opinions and/or other evidence referred to in Section 3.02 of
the Amending Agreement; and
(d) that the Decree has been published and is in full
force and effect.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that:


﻿- 23 -
(a) the funds to be provided by the Guarantor, pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Guarantee Agreement, have been duly allocated
for the first year of the Project execution, as set forth in such
Section.
(b) the Decree has been published and is in full force and
effect, in accordance with the laws of the Ivory Coast.
Section 6.03. The date June 27, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-24-
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For the Borrower:
SODEPALM
P. 0. Box 2049
Abidj an
Ivory Coast
Cable address:
PALMABIDJAN
Abidjan
Ivory Coast


﻿- 25 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Xavier de la Renaudigre
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOCIETE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT ET
L'EXPLOITATION DU PALMIER A HUILE
(SODEPALM)
By /s/ Timothge Ahoua N'Guetta
Authorized Representative


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Preparation costs           7,520,000         75%
(including land
clearing and
access roads) for
Part A of the
Project
(2) Development costs           2,980,000         60%
for the Plantations
under Part B of the
Project
(3) Buildings, equipment        3.500OO          100% of foreign
and vehicles under                           expenditures
Part C of the Project                        or 65% of local
expenditures
(4) Part E of the Project
(a) Extension                190,000         80%
services


﻿- 27 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(b) Credits in kind         600,ooo         80%
(c) Credits in cash         290,000         80%
(5) Operating the                41o,ooo         80%
Project Directorate
under Part F of the
Project
(6) Unallocated                4,510,000
TOTAL      20,000,000


﻿- 28 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Guarantor; provided, however, that if the currency of the Guar-
antor is also that of another country from the territory of which
goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for
such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures";
and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.


﻿- 29 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000, may
be made in respect of Categories 3, 4 and 5 on account of payments
made for such expenditures before that date but after January 1,
1977.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category or Sub-category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category or Sub-category, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category or Sub-category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Loan which are then allocated to another Category or Sub-category
and which in the opinion of the Bank Pre not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category or Sub-category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿30
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises the first three years of the four-year
(1976-1979) program of the Borrower for developing, in the South-
West Region of the Ivory Coast, oil palm and coconut estates and
outgrovers' oil palm and coconut plantations, together with (i)
the provision of ancillary facilities such as roads, buildings,
vehicles and equipment, (ii) the operation of a Project director-
ate and (iii) the provision of loans and extension services to
the outgrovers.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Preparation of about 18,500 ha of land for the creation
of oil palm and coconut estates.
Part B:   Establishing of about 8,000 ha of oil palm and about
7,500 ha of coconut estates.
Part C:   Providing infrastructure for the estates included in
Parts A and B hereof, such as feeder roads, housing,
social, medical and administrative buildings, store
sheds, vehicles and equipment.
Part D:   Establishing an outgrower program of about 2,000 ha
coconut and about 500 ha oil palm plantations on land
cleared by the outgrowers.


﻿- 32 -
Part E:   Providing such outgrowers with credits in kind or cash,
extension services and infrastructure, as needed for
the development of their plantations.
Part F:   Operating the Project Directorate with authority
over the Project and providing for offices, housing,
vehicles, equipment and operating funds required
by such directorate.
*               e            e
The Project is expected to be completed by June 1979.


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (exPressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 1982
through October 15, 1996                       645,000
On April 15, 199T                                   650,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-34
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment
or Redemption                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.30%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.60%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4. 80%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                        6.95%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                        7.85%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                              8.50%


﻿- 35 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for buildings will be advertised locally and awarded
in accordance with local procurement procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
2.   Contracts for goods will be advertised locally and awarded in
accordance with local procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank,
provided, however, that the cost of such individual contracts is less
than $100,000 equivalent (including taxes) and the total cost thereof
does not exceed $1,000,000 equivalent.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their


﻿- 36 -
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Ivory Coast may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Ivory Coast if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in the Ivory Coast equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.


﻿- 37 -
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Ivory Coast.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 38 -
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works consisting of land clearing and estate feeder
roads may be carried out by force account by the Borrower.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for the procurement of goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders;
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its rcview, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank


﻿- 39 -
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination;
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited; and
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


﻿- 40 -
SCHEDULE 5
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Loan Agreement the provisions of the
General Conditions shall be deemed to be modified as follows:
(1) By the deletion of paragraphs (a) to (k) of Section 6.02
and by the substitution therefor of the following new paragraphs:
"(a) The Borrower shall have failed to make payment (not-
withstanding the fact that such payment may have been made by
the Guarantor or a ttird, party) of principal or interest or
any other payment required under: (i) the Loan Agreement, or
(ii) any other loan or guarantee agreement with the Bank or
any bond or similar instrument delivered pursuant to any such
agreement, or (iii) any development credit agreement with the
Association, or (iv) the 1969 Companies Guarantee Agreement
No. 612, or (v) the 1971 Companies Guarantee Agreement No. 759.
(b) The Guarantor shall have failed to make payment of
principal or interest or any other payment required under:
Ci) the Guarantee Agreement; or (ii) any other loan or guar-
antee agreement with the Bank or any bond or similar instru-
ments delivered pursuant to any such agreement; or (iii) any
development credit agreement with the Association.
(c) The Borrower or PALMINDUSTRIE or the Guarantor
shall have failed to perform any other obligation under the
Loan Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement.


﻿-41-
(d) The Bank or the Association shall have suspended in
whole or in part the right of the Borrower or the Guarantor
to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or
any development credit agreement with the Association because
of a failure by the Borrower or the Guarantor to perform any
of its obligations under such agreement or any guarantee agree-
ment with the Bank.
(e) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Project
can be carried out or that the Borrower or PALMINDUSTRIE or
the Guarantor will be able to perform its obligations under
the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement.
(f) The Guarantor: (i) shall have been suspended from
membership in or ceased to be a member of the Bank; or (ii)
shall have ceased to be a member of the International Monetary
Fund.
(g) After the date of the Loan Agreement and prior to
the Effective Date any event shall have occurred which would
have entitled the Bank to suspend the Borrower's right to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account if the Loan Agreement had
been effective on the date such event occurred.
(h) Any material adverse change in the condition of the
Borrower or PALMINDUSTRIE, as represented by the Borrower or
PALMINDUSTRIE, shall have occurred prior to the Effective Date.


﻿-42-
(i) A representation made by the Borrower or PALMINDUS-
TRIE or the Guarantor in or pursuant to the Loan Agreement or
the Guarantee Agreement, or any statement furnished in connec-
tion therewith, and intended to be relied upon by the Bank in
making the Loan, shall have been incorrect in any material re-
spect.
(j) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Second BNDA-SODEPALM Loan
made to the Borrower for the financing of
the Project shall have been suspended, can-
celled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the Second BNDA-
SODEPAIM Loan Agreement, or
(B) The Second BNDA-SODEPALM Loan shall have
become due and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
faction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under such
agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from


﻿-  43-
other sources on terms and conditions con-
sistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
(k) Any event specified in paragraphs (f), (g), (h), (i),
(j), (k), (1), (m) or (n) of Section 7.01, as amended, of the
General Conditions, shall have occurred."
(2) By the deletion of paragraphs (a) to (h) of Section 7.01
and by the substitution therefor of the following new paragraphs:
"(a) A default shall occur in the payment of principal
or interest or any other payment required under the Loan Agree-
ment and such default shall continue for a period of thirty
days.
(b) A default shall occur in the payment of principal
or interest or any other payment required under the Guarantee
Agreement and such default shall continue for a period of
thirty days.
(c) A default shall occur in the payment of principal
or interest or any other payment required under any other
loan or guarantee agreement referred to in Section 6.02 (a),
as amended, of the General Conditions, between the Bank and
the Borrower or under any bond or similar instrument delivered
pursuant to any such agreement or under any development credit
agreement between the Association and the Borrower and such
default shall continue for a period of thirty days.


﻿(d) A default shall occur in the payment of principal
or interest or any other payment required under any loan or
guarantee agreement between the Guarantor and the Bank or under
any bond or similar instrument delivered pursuant to any such
agreement or under any development credit agreement between
the Association and the Guarantor under circumstances which
would make it unlikely that the Guarantor would meet its obli-
gations under the Guaranteer. Agreement and such default shall
continue for a period of thirty days.
(e) A default shall occur in the performance of any other
obligation on the part of the Borrower or the Guarantor under
the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement, and such default
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the
Guarantor.
(f) The Borrower or PALMINDUSTRIE shall have become un-
able to pay its debts as they mature or any action or proceed-
ing shall have been taken by the Borrower or by others whereby
any of the assets of the Borrower or PALMINDUSTRIE shall or
may be distributed among its creditors.
(g) The Guarantor or any other authority having juris-
diction shall have taken any action: (i) for the dissolution
or disestablishment of the Borrower or PALMINDUSTRIE; or (ii)
for the suspension of all or any substantial part of their
operations; or (iii) for the compulsory acquisition of the


﻿-  45-
ownership or control of the property and assets of PALMINDUS-
TRIE necessary for the proper and efficient operation of its
business, or for the effective control of its management; or
(iv) which, in the opinion of the Bank, would adversely affect
the operations, or the financial condition of the Borrower
or its ability to perform its obligations under the Loan Agree-
ment.
(h) The loans provided under the First or the Second
Caisse Centrale SODEPALM Loan Agreement, the FED Pr@t
Spcial, the First or Second BNDA-SODEPALM Loan Agreement or
any loan or credit to the Borrower having an original maturity
of one year or more shall have become due and payable prior
to its agreed maturity pursuant to the terms thereof, or the
loans provided for under the Caisse Centrale-PALMINDUSTRIE
Loan Agreement, the EIB Loan Agreement, the Caisse Centrale-
BNDA Loan Agreement, the BNDA-PALMINDUSTRIE Loan Agreement or
any loan or credit to PALMINDUSTRIE having an original maturity
of one year or more shall become due and payable prior to its
agreed maturity pursuant to the terms thereof.
(i) PALMINDUSTRIE shall, without the prior approval of
the Bank, have taken any action for its termination, dissolu-
tion or winding up or shall have merged into or consolidated
with any corporation.
(j) The First or Second Caisse Centrale SODEPALM Loan
Agreement, the FED Pr@t Sp6cial, the First or Second BNDA-
SODEPALM Loan Agreement, the Caisse Centrale-BNDA Loan Agreement


﻿or any other agreement providing for a loan to the Borrower
having a maturity of one year or more, shall have been in any
material respect terminated (other than in accordance with
the terms thereof), amended, suspended, waived or assigned
without the prior approval of the Bank.
(k) The SODEPALM-PALMINDUSTRIE Contrat de bail shall
have been terminated, amended suspended, waived or assigned
without the prior approval of the Bank or either party thereto
shall have failed to perform its obligations thereunder.
(1) The Statuts of the Borrower or PALMINDUSTRIE shall
have been amended, suspended, or abrogated without the prior
approval of the Bank.
(m) The Decree shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived without the Bank's prior
approval or the laws and decrees governing the organization
and the administration of CSSPPA shall have been amended in
such a way as to materially and adversely affect the carrying
out of the Project or the financial situation of the Borrower.
(n) Law No. 69-246 dated June 2, 1969, and Decree No.
69-264 dated June 12, 1969, establishing and governing the
operations of FER, shall have been amended, suspended or
terminated without the prior approval of the Bank.
(o) Any event specified in paragraph (f) of Section
6.02 of the General Conditions, as amended, shall have
occurred."


﻿SCHEDULE 6
Lending Policies and Procedures for Oil Palm and Hybrid-
Coconut Outgrowers
The following policies and procedures shall be applied by the
Borrower in making loans under Part E of the Project as described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, except as the Bank may otherwise
agree:
I.   Oil Palm Outgrowers
Each oil palm outgrower shall receive a loan of up to
CFAF 141,000 per hectare for a maximum of 10 hectares of oil palm
plantings. The loan shall be partly in cash and partly in kind,
including, among others, seedlings, fertilizers, and insecticides.
Each outgrower will repay the loan over 13 years, after 5 years
of grace. Other matters related to these loans are covered in
the standard form of oil palm outgrowers agreement between the
Borrower and the oil palm outgrowers.
Each outgrover shall sell all his crop to the Borrower or
its nominees until his loan is fully repaid at a price sufficient
to produce a reasonable revenue for such outgrower and to produce
a reasonable return on the loan made to such outgrower. Such
loan arrangements and buying price shall not be changed without
the prior consent of the Bank.


﻿- 48 -
II. Hybrid-Coconut Outgrovers
Each hybrid-coconut outgrower shall receive a loan of up to
CFAF 208,000 per hectare for a maximum of 4.5 hectares of hybrid-
coconut plantings. The loan shall be partly in cash and partly
in kind, including among others, planting materials, fertilizers,
and pesticides. Each outgrover shall repay the loan over 17 years,
after 6 years of grace. Other matters related to these loans are
covered in the standard form of coconut outgrovers agreement
between the Borrower and the coconut outgrowers.
Each outgrower shall sell all his crop to the Borrower or
its nominees until his loan is fully repaid at a price sufficient
to produce a reasonable revenue for such outgrower and to produce
a reasonable return on the loan made to such outgrower. Such
loan arrangements and buying price 3hall not be changed without
the prior consent of the Bank.


