                                 Document of
                                The World Bank



                                                  Report No: ICR00002864



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IDA-39240 IDA-47840)



                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 132.2 MILLION
                       (US$ 200 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO

                    THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                                     FOR A

           NATIONAL URBAN WATER SECTOR REFORM PROJECT



                                  May 6, 2014




Urban Development and Services Practice (AFTU2)
Country Management Unit AFCW2
Africa Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective February 28, 2014)

                Currency Unit = United States Dollars/Naira
                         1.00 Naira = US$ 0.0061
                         US$ 1.00 = 163.95 Naira

                             FISCAL YEAR


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB       African Development Bank
BMPIU      Budget Monitoring and Price Intelligence Unit
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA       Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR       Country Procurement Assessment Review
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
FCT        Federal Capital Territory
FD/FPIU    Finance Department of FPIU
FGN        Federal Government of Nigeria
FMenv      Federal Ministry of the Environment
FMF        Federal Ministry of Finance
FMS        Financial Management System
FMWR       Federal Ministry of Water Resources
FPA        Federal Project Account
FPIU       Federal Project Implementation Unit
FPM        Financial Procedures Manual
FSA        Federal Special Account
GoN        Government of Nigeria
ICR        Implementation Completion and Results Report
IPF        Investment Project Financing
JMP        WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Program
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR        Mid-Term Review
NEEDS      National Empowerment and Economic Development Strategy
NUWSRP 1   First National Urban Water Sector Reform Project
NUWSRP 2   Second National Urban Water Sector Reform Project
NUWSRP 3   Third National Urban Water Sector Reform Project
NWP        National Water Policy
OSAG       Office of State Accountant General
PFMU       Project Financial Management Unit
PHRD       Japan Policy and Human Resources Development
PIM        Project Implementation Manual

                                     i
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
PPP     Public-Private Partnership
PSP     Private Sector Participation
SEEDS   State Empowerment and Economic Development Strategy
SOE     Statement of Expenditure
SPA     State Project Account
SPIU    State Project Implementing Unit
SSA     State Special Account
SWA     State Water Agency
SWRA    State Water Regulatory Agency
UFW     Unaccounted for Water
WSS     Water Supply and Sanitation Services




                   Vice President: Makhtar Diop
                 Country Director: Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly
                  Sector Manager: Alexander E. Bakalian
             Project Team Leader: Hassan Madu Kida
                ICR Team Leader: Sanyu Lutalo




                                 ii
                          FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                  NATIONAL URBAN WATER SECTOR REFORM PROJECT


                                                      CONTENTS
Data Sheet

     A. Basic Information………………………………….………………………………………v
     B. Key Dates………………………………………………………………………………….v
     C. Ratings Summary………………………………………………………………………….v
     D. Sector and Theme Codes…………………………………………………………………vi
     E. Bank Staff…………………………………………………………………………………vi
     F. Results Framework Analysis……………………………………………………………..vi
     G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs…………………………………………………..x
     H. Restructuring ……………………………………………………………………………..xi
     I. Disbursement Graph……………………………………………………………………….xi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 13
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 22
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 26
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 27
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 28
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 37
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 41
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 43
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 48
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 49
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 53
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 54
   MAP




                                                               iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                             National Urban Water
Country:                  Nigeria                     Project Name:
                                                                             Sector Reform Project 1
Project ID:               P071075                     L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-39240, IDA-47840
ICR Date:                 03/31/2014                  ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                             FEDERAL MINISTRY
Lending Instrument:       SIL                         Borrower:
                                                                             OF FINANCE
Original Total
                          XDR 81.70M                  Disbursed Amount:      XDR 132.16M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:           XDR 132.16M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Federal Ministry of Water Resources1
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:
 Not applicable.

B. Key Dates
                                                                                     Revised / Actual
      Process               Date                Process             Original Date
                                                                                         Date(s)
Concept Review:          12/05/2000       Effectiveness:             12/14/2004         12/14/2004
                                                                                        07/23/2010
Appraisal:               03/01/2004       Restructuring(s):                             11/20/2010
                                                                                        09/27/2012
Approval:                06/15/2004       Mid-term Review:           12/18/2007         04/01/2008
                                          Closing:                   09/30/2010         09/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                             Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                          Substantial
Bank Performance:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings                Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:     Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory


1
  The implementing agencies of the state components of the project were the State Project Implementation
Units (SPIUs) of the respective states, while the Federal Project Implementation Unit (FPIU) was
responsible at the Federal level.


                                                     iv
                                                   Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                                Moderately Satisfactory
                                                   Agency/Agencies2:
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                            Quality at Entry
                          Yes                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
Problem Project at any                               Quality of
                             No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                        5                     5
Sub-national government administration                                   2                     2
Water supply                                                            93                  93


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery                           50                  50
Infrastructure services for private sector development                  33                  33
Regulation and competition policy                                       17                  17

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Makhtar Diop                         Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:            Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly          Mark D. Tomlinson
Sector Manager:              Alexander E. Bakalian                Inger Andersen
Project Team Leader:         Hassan Madu Kida                     Alexander A. McPhail
ICR Team Leader:             Hassan Madu Kida
ICR Primary Author:          Sanyu Lutalo




2
 The implementing agencies performance includes the SPIUs. The FPIU is considered under Government
performance.



                                                 v
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives

The objectives of the Project were to: (i) increase access to piped water networks in
selected urban areas; and (ii) improve reliability and financial viability of selected urban
water utilities, in Kaduna, Kano, and Ogun States. Progress toward these principal
development outcomes was measured through i) the increase in water delivered through
existing and extended networks; ii) improvements in cost recovery, and iii) increase in
the number of household connections to the piped water network.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The PDO was not substantively revised. However, the wording was later aligned with the
states participating in the project after Kano state dropped out and was replaced by Enugu
state.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                      Original Target Formally         Actual Value
                                       Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
  Indicator      Baseline Value
                                          approval         Target     Completion or
                                        documents)3        Values      Target Years
             Increase in water delivered through existing and extended networks (in
Indicator 1:
             million litres per day)

                                                                   Enugu: 170       Enugu: 220
Value
                                              See footnote 3       Kaduna: 350      Kaduna: 420
quantitative or 04
                                              below.               Ogun: 240        Ogun: 225
Qualitative)
                                                                   Total: 760       Total: 865

Date achieved 12/31/2004                03/31/2010        09/30/2013 09/30/2013
Comments
                The combined target for the three states was fully achieved and exceeded
(incl. %
                (114%). The individual targets were also exceeded in all three States.
achievement)
Indicator 2: Improvement in cost recovery (million Naira increase in cash flow)5.
Value           Enugu: 0                                                 Enugu: 65
quantitative or Kaduna: 0               See footnote 3. Average: 120 Kaduna: 85
Qualitative) Ogun: 0                                                     Ogun: 60


3
  Outcome targets were not given in the original PAD, but were availed in subsequent supervision reports
and formally revised in the Project Paper (June 2010).
4
  The baseline is considered zero by the ICR, given the definition of the indicator, which measures the
incremental amount of water delivered.
5
  This indicator is defined as the increased annual cash flow in each state.


                                                   vi
                                                                         Average: 70
Date achieved 12/31/2004               03/31/2010        09/30/2013 09/30/2013
              Based on available data from all three states for this indicator as defined6,
Comments      the cost recovery target was only partially achieved (58 percent).

                Original Indicator: Increase in number of house connections.
Indicator 3: Revised Indicator: Number of people in urban areas provided with access
                to improved water source.
                                                                           Kaduna:
Value           Baseline data not                                          2,430,000
quantitative or available in original    See footnote 3. 5,000,000         Ogun: 2,140,449
Qualitative) PAD.                                                          Enugu: 807,000
                                                                           Total: 5,377,449
Date achieved 12/31/2004                 03/31/2010         09/30/2013 09/30/2013
Comments
                The target was fully achieved and exceeded (108%). The indicator was
(incl. %
                formally revised as part of the project restructuring in June 2010.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                   Original Target         Formally   Actual Value
                                                    Values (from            Revised    Achieved at
     Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                      approval              Target    Completion or
                                                    documents)              Values    Target Years
                Component 1
                Original Indicator: Existing water supply networks rehabilitated.
Indicator 1:
                Formally Revised Indicator: Number of existing water supply networks
                rehabilitated to installed capacity.
Value
(quantitative 0                           8               13           13
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                  03/31/2010      09/30/2013 09/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        The target was fully achieved. All 13 networks were rehabilitated.
achievement)
                Component 1
                Original Indicator: Number of new household water connections.
Indicator 2:
                Revised Indicator: New household water connections that are resulting
                from the project intervention.
Value           0                         50,000          Not


6
    This indicator is defined as the increased annual cash flow in each state.




                                                        vii
(quantitative                                             applicable. 70,846
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                03/31/2010        09/30/2013 09/30/2013
Comments        The target was fully achieved and exceeded. The number of new water
                connections exceeded the original target by 20,846 connections ( 142%).
                Piped household water connections that are benefitting from rehabilitation
Indicator 3 :
                works undertaken under the project.
                                        Not applicable.
                                        The indicator                   Kaduna: 140,802
Value
                                        was introduced                  Ogun: 43,867
(quantitative 0                                           250,000
                                        as part of the                  Enugu: 23,559
or Qualitative)
                                        2010                            Total: 208,228
                                        restructuring.
Date achieved 12/31/2004                03/31/2010        09/30/2012 09/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        The target was substantially achieved (83%).
achievement)
Indicator 4: Component 2 - PPP contracts in effect.
Value
                0                       2                 5             2
Date achieved 12/31/2004                  03/31/2010       09/30/2012 09/30/2013
Comments
                The target was 40% achieved. Two PPP contracts out of five planned were
(incl. %
                in effect at the end of the project.
achievement)
                Component 2 - Additional states ready to enter into PPP contracts at
Indicator 5:
                project closing.
Value
(quantitative 0                           2                N/A            0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                  09/30/2010       09/30/2012 09/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        The target was not achieved.
achievement)
                Component 3
                Original Indicator: At least 20% increase in billing and collection
Indicator 6:
                efficiency.
                Revised Indicator: Increase in collection efficiency in all three SWAs7
                                                                          Enugu: 80
Value           Enugu: 0                  Enugu: 20%
                                                                          Kaduna: 85
(quantitative Kaduna: 0                   Kaduna: 20%      80%
                                                                          Ogun: 70
or Qualitative) Ogun: 0                   Ogun: 20%
                                                                          Average: 78%



7
    Collection efficiency is defined as the ratio of revenue collected compared to the amount billed (%).


                                                      viii
Date achieved 12/31/2004                 09/30/2010         09/30/2012 09/30/2013
Comments
                The average revised target was substantially achieved (98%). The target
(incl. %
                was revised as part of project restructuring in 2010.
achievement)
                Component 3
                Original Indicator: At least 20% increase in water availability to end
Indicator 7: users.
                Revised Indicator: Increase in water availability to end users in all three
                SWAs8.
                                                            80%. The
                                                            target was
Value           Enugu: 0                 Enugu: 20%
                                                            revised as     Average: 80%
(quantitative Kaduna: 0                  Kaduna: 20%
                                                            part of the
or Qualitative) Ogun: 0                  Ogun: 20%
                                                            2010
                                                            restructuring.
Date achieved 12/31/2004                 09/30/2010         09/30/2012 09/30/2013
Comments
                The revised target was fully achieved. Capacity utilization is being limited
(incl. %
                by insufficient power supply experienced in all the States.
achievement)
                Original Indicator: 100% O&M coverage from revenues.
Indicator 8 :
                Revised Indicator: O&M coverage from revenues in all three SWAs.
                                                                           Enugu: 65%
Value           Enugu: 15%
                                                                           Kaduna: 75%
(quantitative Kaduna: 20%                100%               100%
                                                                           Ogun: 40%
or Qualitative) Ogun: 25%
                                                                           Average: 60%
Date achieved 12/31/2004                 09/30/2010         09/30/2012 09/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        The target was partially achieved (60%).
achievement)
Indicator 9 : Component 4 - State Water Regulatory Agencies established.
                                                                           The frameworks
                                                                           for establishment
                                                                           of the regulatory
                                         3 State Water                     agencies and the
Value
                No Regulatory            Regulatory                        enabling laws
(quantitative                                               N/A
                agencies.                Agencies                          were prepared and
or Qualitative)
                                         established.                      are currently
                                                                           under review by
                                                                           the respective
                                                                           State


8
  The indicator is defined as water available to users, as measured at bulk meter exit from water production
facilities.



                                                     ix
                                                                             Governments.
Date achieved 12/31/2004                 09/30/2010         09/30/2012       09/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        The target was partially achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 10 : Component 4 - National Water Policy Completed.
Value
                                                                       Policy was
(quantitative No policy in place.        Policy prepared. N/A
                                                                       prepared.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                            09/30/2010                    09/30/2013
Comments
                The National Water Policy was prepared, hence the target was fully
(incl. %
                achieved.
achievement)
                Component 4 - Establishment of national strategy to increase low income
Indicator 11 :
                household connections.
Value
                                                                       Strategy
(quantitative No strategy.               Strategy in place. N/A
                                                                       completed.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                 09/30/2010         09/30/2012 09/30/2013
Comments
                The National Low Income Household Strategy was completed and States
(incl. %
                are implementing it.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
        Date ISR
No.                           DO                             IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
 1     12/03/2004        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
 2     04/26/2005        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     3.43
 3     11/01/2005        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     5.82
 4     11/10/2005        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     6.03
 5     05/24/2006    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              9.35
 6     11/22/2006        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   14.09
 7     06/05/2007        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   20.45
 8     11/30/2007    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            28.72
 9     05/22/2008    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            39.81
 10    11/22/2008    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            55.34
 11    05/04/2009        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   68.66
 12    12/16/2009        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   89.65
 13    06/04/2010        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  105.98
 14    02/12/2011        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  121.68
 15    10/19/2011        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  130.22
 16    06/12/2012    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory           148.56
 17    08/07/2012        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  154.72


                                               x
 18    04/22/2013         Satisfactory         Satisfactory               173.58


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Changes entailed provision of
                                                     SDR55.5 million (US$80
 07/23/2010               S       S         110.12
                                                     million equivalent), and 24
                                                     months Closing Date extension
                                                     12 month extension of the
 09/27/2012               S       S         155.56
                                                     project closing date.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         xi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation, was in the midst of a difficult
political and economic transition at the time the project was identified in the early
2000s. Emerging from 30 years of military rule, the country was facing an array of
complicated issues, including a deterioration of government institutions and inadequate
capacity and resources at all levels of government to deliver basic services to its
population effectively. The country was also undergoing rapid urbanization, with steady
growth averaging about 5.7 percent per annum. Urban poverty was on the rise, and an
estimated 48 percent of urban dwellers and 54.7 percent of the country were living in
poverty by 2004.

2.      The rapid growth in urban population was not proportionately accompanied
by increased access to essential services such as water supply and sanitation. Access
to safe water supply was low in most parts of the country; an estimated 50 percent of the
urban population and just 20 percent of the peri-urban population had access to reliable
water supply of acceptable quality. Vulnerable groups such as the poor, many of whom
lived in low-income areas with limited or no direct access to piped water supply, often
paying more for basic services or relying on unsafe sources, were disproportionately
affected. The non-poor also spent substantial amounts of money on coping measures
such as drilling of private boreholes entailing high capital and operating costs, and
purchase from water tankers.

3.      Underlying reasons for the poor access, quality, and reliability of water
supply services were attributed to various technical, operational, financial, and
institutional factors. Technically, most SWA systems were operating below capacity
due to ageing infrastructure, inadequate preventive maintenance of production,
transmission, and distribution facilities, and unreliable power supply, leading to frequent
system breakdowns and intermittent services. Unaccounted for water (UFW) was
estimated to be as high as 63 percent. In addition to physical losses linked to the poor
state of infrastructure, many utilities faced heavy commercial losses due to factors such
as illegal connections and poor demand management. Investment deficits in urban water
supply rehabilitation and new infrastructure to restore and expand services were
estimated at about US$6.8 billion, with an additional US$100 million a year required for
operations and maintenance nationally.

4.      Institutionally, responsibility for delivery of water supply and sanitation
services in Nigeria was, and remains shared at several levels, in line with the
country’s decentralized federal governance structure. The Federal Ministry of Water
Resources (FMWR) is responsible for formulating and coordinating national water
policies and for planning and approving development projects nationwide, while state




                                            1
governments, through designated State Water Agencies (SWAs) 9 , are responsible for
management of potable water supply at the state level. The SWAs were established under
edicts to develop and manage water supply facilities within their jurisdictions and to meet
sound financial objectives. However, most SWAs were not financially viable and they
operated inefficiently due to factors such as inconsistent billing, low tariffs that did not
reflect the full cost of operations, and low revenue collection rates. They also lacked the
fiscal and operational autonomy from state governments to make decisions on key
financial and operational aspects such as tariffs, investments, and staffing. Most states
lacked the policy, legal, and regulatory instruments and expertise to attract and sustain
private investment and state laws were unclear on the roles, rights, and obligations of
private parties in the provision of public services like water. Consequently, small scale
vendors dominated the growing informal market with no regulation of quality or pricing.

5.       To improve the efficiency of service delivery, the Federal Government of
Nigeria (GoN), with support from the Bank, decided to fundamentally reorient the
concept of service provision by separating infrastructure investment and ownership
from service operation. In addition to addressing the poor state of infrastructure to
improve quality and reliability of services, the private sector participation (PSP) approach
was widely considered at the time by many in the sector as a promising solution to
improving sector performance efficiency. On the one hand it was recognized in view of
the magnitude of needs, that investments could not be fully financed publicly, and would
need substantial financing from private sources. However, the poor state of basic water
and energy infrastructure, combined with the absence of sound regulatory agencies were
potential deterrents to many private sector operators. The original project development
objectives defined in the Project Concept Note (PCN) were to: (i) establish a pro-private
sector participation (PSP) regulatory, policy and legal framework at federal and state
levels; (ii) build management and technical capacity of SWAs through appropriate
institutional reform; and (iii) facilitate PSP transactions between SWAs and private
operators. The approach however evolved over the course of project preparation, based
on findings from baseline and transaction surveys and studies, as well as prevailing
conditions in the sector which highlighted existing market risks and raised concerns with
the sector’s ability to hedge such risks. The final project design therefore included a
combination of investments and institutional measures which remained open to the option
of strengthening the public sector to make utilities more attractive to investors while
continuing to deliver services efficiently and effectively.

6.     Rationale for Bank Assistance. The Bank was the most active International
Financing Institution (IFI) in Nigeria’s urban water sector at the time the project was
designed. In view of prevailing challenges in the sector given Nigeria’s political and


9
  In most states, State Water Agencies (SWAs) are responsible for management of urban and peri-urban
water supply, while State Water Ministries and/or Local Government Authorities (LGAs) are generally
responsible for rural water supply.




                                                 2
economic transition, including the nascent stages of decentralization, the sheer magnitude
of investment needs, and limitations in the sector’s enabling environment, most donors
and IFIs were looking to the World Bank to lead the development assistance agenda and
to help the GoN re-establish the development framework. The Bank was willing to
provide long-term financial support to help strengthen the sector and support investments
to improve services in a sustainable manner. The Bank had supported numerous large
scale water supply projects globally, including some involving various models of public
private partnership (PPP) and reform, and it was uniquely positioned in terms of expertise
and knowledge to assist the GoN in establishing the necessary enabling environment to
implement the project.

7.       The NUWSRP followed six Bank supported water projects in Nigeria, which
had been rated marginally satisfactory or unsatisfactory. Most of the earlier projects
were largely investment focused and they did not adequately focus on strengthening the
utilities responsible for service delivery at the state level. The National Water
Rehabilitation Project (NWRP), which immediately preceded the current project,
attempted to address some of the institutional weaknesses of urban water utilities and was
instrumental in raising awareness and initiating implementation of policy reforms in the
water sector. Its impact however, was limited given the project’s broad national focus,
leading to the conclusion that a more lasting impact was more likely to be achieved by
focusing reform and investment efforts on a few states that were already undertaking
reforms and could thus demonstrate positive results. Design of the NUWSRP considered
lessons from this and earlier projects, as discussed later.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

8.       The PDO, as described in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), was: (a) to
improve the reliability and financial viability of selected urban water utilities; and (b) to
increase access to piped water networks in selected urban areas. The original PDO, as
stated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) dated September 10, 2004, was to:
(i) increase access to piped water networks in selected urban areas; and (ii) improve
reliability and financial viability of selected urban water utilities, in Kaduna, Kano, and
Ogun States.

9.      According to the PAD, progress toward achievement of the PDO was to be
reflected through three key performance indicators: i) increase in water delivered through
existing and extended networks; ii) improvements in cost recovery; and iii) the increase
in the number of household connections to the piped water network.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

10.    No changes were made to the PDO in the Project Appraisal Document
(Project Paper). However, the description of the PDO was slightly revised in the
amended DCA dated November 20, 2010, to reflect changes in the beneficiary states,



                                             3
specifically to include Enugu State and remove Kano State which had dropped out of the
project for reasons discussed below.

11.    Several changes to the Key Performance Indicators were introduced during
implementation to align the project results monitoring framework with the Bank’s
core water sector indicators. The changes, which were introduced in supervision
documents such as the Implementation Status reports, specifically entailed addition of
PDO indicators on: (i) number of people in urban areas provided with access to improved
water sources under the project; and (ii) number of direct project beneficiaries
(percentage of which are female).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

12.    The project’s primary target group was the people in the selected urban
areas in the beneficiary states of Kaduna, Kano10, Ogun, and later Enugu which
replaced Kano, who were provided with increased access to piped water supply and
improved service reliability through the network rehabilitation and expansion
works. These outcomes were expected to contribute to higher level benefits such as
reduced health risks from waterborne diseases, and improved convenience, wellbeing,
and ultimately productivity among beneficiaries. The project performance indicators
however focused on measurable outcomes that could be fully attributed to the current
operation.

13.     Participating SWAs or utilities were also expected to benefit directly from
the capacity building and institutional development activities supported by the
project, in terms of improved staff skills and capacity to perform their roles in order
to deliver services in a more efficient and effective manner. These activities included
training and technical assistance to manage their operations and maintenance functions,
as well as provision of operational and office equipment and facilities to perform these
functions. The envisaged support for reforms, including for PPP as well as public utility
management models, were also envisaged to contribute to improved operational and
financial performance and quality of services delivered by the utilities that would benefit
from such arrangements.

14.     Finally, at the federal level the FMWR, through the Policy Reform and
Institutional Development Component, was expected to benefit directly in terms of
improved capacity and skills to: (a) conduct its role in developing policy and supporting
states in pursuing sector reforms needed to improve water supply and sanitation services;
and (b) support improvements in the sector’s enabling environment to attract private
sector participation.




10
  Kano eventually dropped out of the project, hence the state’s residents were ultimately not primary
beneficiaries to the project.


                                                    4
1.5 Original Components (as approved)

15.     Component 1: Rehabilitation and Network Expansion (US$105.5 million):
This component was to finance support for: (a) rehabilitation of water production
infrastructure to restore water systems to operate at installed capacity; (b) purchase of
essential vehicles and specialized rolling stock for the SWAs; (c) supply and installation
of production and zonal meters to provide vital operational information; (d) safety
enhancements of dams located within the project states, including those that are owned
by the Federal Government but located within states; (e) distribution system expansion
once PPP contracts are in place or the relevant SWA demonstrates a high degree of
operational capacity and efficiency, as well as financial autonomy; and (f) preparation of
a follow on project. The cost of this activity was increased with support from the
Additional Financing.

16.     Component 2: Public-Private Partnerships (US$16.5 million): This component
was to support Public Private Partnerships in selected states which were expected to enter
into such partnerships for management of their SWAs, to rebuild technical and
commercial capacity and assure adequate operation and maintenance arrangements. The
private sector operator contracts were expected to be five year management contracts,
and costs covered design, tendering, and payment of operators’ fees.

17.     Component 3: Capacity Building and Project Management (US$9.85
million): This component was to support capacity building and project management in
the FMWR and the State Water Authorities. Expenditures were to include project
management costs, stakeholder communication programs, training, and office equipment.
Additionally support was to be given to the FMWR for its work in sector coordination
and reform and capacity building, including helping in raising the performance of non-
participating states to be able to participate in the continuing national reform program, as
well as monitoring and evaluation. Further studies to prepare additional states for PPP
contracts would be included. The total cost of this component was increased with support
from the Additional Financing.

18.     Component 4: Policy Reform and Institutional Development (US$5.3
million): This Component was to: (a) support the FMWR to develop a national low
income household service strategy; (b) assist in the establishment of State Water
Regulatory Authorities; (c) complete and implement a National Water Policy and carry
out an initial, and then annual, Water Investment Mobilization and Application
Guidelines (WIMAG) conferences. In regard to the regulatory framework, the project
was to: (i) support establishment of the regulators as quickly as possible; (ii) support
training of the regulators’ staff over several years so that they are capable of carrying out
their mandate; and (iii) help the state governments determine when the regulators have
gained sufficient expertise and capacity to practically assume regulatory functions.




                                             5
1.6 Revised Components

19.    The project components were not substantially revised. Changes were made
however to reflect: (a) replacement of Kano State with Enugu State early during
implementation; and (b) increased estimated costs or allocation for Component 1 in light
of the additional financing provided for the project in 2010. These issues are discussed
below in more detail.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

20.     Changes in Geographic Scope: The scope of the project was revised to
significantly scale down activities in Kano State, and to include activities in Enugu State.
Following changes in Kano’s executive leadership soon after the project became effective,
the state wrote to the Federal Ministry of Finance (MoF) on May 20, 2005 advising of an
executive decision to finance sector investments from its internal resources, and
requesting to accordingly withdraw from the project. The state’s withdrawal resulted in
the release of SDR26.4 million (approximately US$40 million), most of which was
reallocated to Enugu State. In the amended DCA, Kano’s share of the project was
reduced from about US$34.7 million to US$5.5 million, although it was not utilized by
the state. The other states, Ogun and Kaduna, also received some additional funds
through the reallocation.

21.    Project Restructuring and Additional Financing: The project underwent a
Level One restructuring, approved on July 23, 2010 with provision of additional
financing. The restructuring entailed the following specific changes.

       a)      Provision of an additional IDA Credit in the amount of SDR50.5 million
       (US$80 million equivalent), and Counterpart funding in the amount of US$4
       million from the Government of Nigeria. The additional Credit was intended to
       cover costs associated with a financing gap caused by the global increase in unit
       prices of pipes, electromechanical, and electrical equipment, and by an
       unexpected increase in the scale of rehabilitation works due to the greater than
       anticipated level of deterioration of existing assets. The additional Credit also
       supported increased provision of household and bulk water meters. The
       restructuring was reflected through an amendment to the DCA approved by the
       Bank’s Board on July 29, 2010 and signed on November 20, 2010.

       b)      Extension of the project closing date: The project closing date was
       extended by 24 months from September 30, 2010 to September 30, 2012, as part
       of the restructuring associated with the above additional financing.

       c)     A second extension by an additional 12 months, from September 30, 2012
       to September 30, 2013, was made through a Level Two restructuring approved by
       the Regional Vice President (RVP) for the Bank’s Africa Region on September 27,
       2012. The additional extension was requested by the Government to allow for
       completion of already committed activities valued at about US$38.7 million



                                             6
       which required additional time for installation, testing, and handing over to the
       client.

22.     Changes in Disbursement Categories: The approved disbursement percentages
from the original DCA were revised through an amendment dated June 29, 2006, which
made 95 percent of expenditures eligible for financing out of the Credit proceeds across
all categories, with 5 percent to be financed from counterpart funds. The change was
retroactive to September 2005.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

23.     The background analysis which informed project design and rationale for
Bank support was generally sound. The analysis reflected a clear understanding of the
fundamental challenges facing Nigeria’s water sector. The project supported the
Government’s sector development priorities and strategy which sought to improve
service delivery by separating infrastructure investment and ownership from operation
through optimal PPP in investment, management, and delivery of water services. The
analysis drew upon lessons from what were considered global good practices for PPP as
well as experience with previous water supply and sanitation projects in Nigeria.

24.     Extensive stakeholder consultations were conducted as part of preparation,
and Federal and State Governments committed to the project. The relatively long
project preparation timeframe is attributed to consultation and consensus building with
stakeholders on the suitability of the original project design introducing private sector
participation in the Nigerian context. Government commitment, both the Federal and
participating state governments, was adequate at entry and Government signed a letter of
sector policy committing to the project. The apparent shift in Kano’s commitment to
participating in the project soon after its approval was mainly attributed to changes in
strategic priorities of the state’s new executive leadership. This experience highlights the
fact that h


25.     The PDO was clear and aligned with Nigeria’s development priorities as well
as the Bank’s CAS, and appropriate activities were included under the components
to achieve them. The strategic choice to focus on three states based on their assessed
commitment to reform and likelihood of meeting the project objectives, rather than on the
six states originally considered in the PCN, was appropriate to optimize the project’s
impact in the participating states. Project components were selected on the basis of
appropriate technical, economic, social, and political considerations based on:
professional engineering assessments of system conditions and projected needs in the
participating states. The selection process also involved dialogue, sector work, and
baseline studies on legal, regulatory, and institutional reforms needed to enhance the
enabling environment for private participation in the states, as well as public opinion
polls that signaled enhanced levels of service as a pre-requisite to putting in place



                                             7
adequate tariffs, and expert opinion that a private sector intervention was the fastest and
most secure way of restoring the SWAs to financial sustainability.

26.      The project design recognized and tried to address realities based on the
Nigerian context in terms of both market risks and the sector’s ability to hedge such
risks, as well as operational risks and mitigation measures. The failure under a
parallel International Finance Corporation (IFC) financed operation to attract suitable
private operators to manage the Lagos water activities resulted in the decision to adopt a
more pragmatic approach which broadened the options for design of the NUWSRP1. The
design therefore built in flexibility to allow for strengthening of the public sector in order
to make it more attractive for investors in the event that envisaged private investment did
not materialize. The PAD also identified other critical risks to achieving or sustaining
project outcomes, including issues relating to intermittent power supply and inadequate
tariff adjustments, and presented mitigation measures for the risks.

27.    Moderate shortcomings at entry are noted in two key aspects: (i) design of
the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) framework, and (ii) project implementation
readiness. Shortcomings in respect to M&E design mainly related to weaknesses in the
Results Framework discussed in more detail under Section 2.3 on M&E below.
Implementation readiness aspects related to delays in completion of detailed designs,
which contributed to implementation delays in the initial phase.

2.2 Implementation

28.    Project restructuring and provision of additional financing allowed the
project to address the critical financing gap due to investment cost increases an
unexpected increase in the scale of rehabilitation works. Changes made as part of the
project restructuring and the approval of the additional financing in 2010 were
instrumental in addressing the financing gap, as well as in providing additional time for
completion of project activities.

29.     Implementation Agency capacity, particularly at state level, affected
progress early during implementation; however capacity was progressively built
with support from the project. At the start of the project, state PIU staff, most of whom
were employees of state governments, was not sufficiently experienced with execution of
Bank financed projects. Moreover, in states such as Kaduna and Ogun, staff seconded to
the PIU initially maintained responsibility for roles unrelated to the project further
limiting available capacity. These factors contributed to some initial delays in the
procurement and subsequent commencement of project activities in all three states.
Implementation capacity was strengthened through capacity building activities including
training in Bank procurement, FM, and other skills needed to support project
implementation, as well as through provision of basic equipment such as computers and
vehicles to facilitate implementation. Through dialogue with the state governments, the
project was also able to promote supportive policies, for instance ensuring that PIU staff
were relieved of most of their other duties to be able to work at least 90 percent of their




                                              8
time on the project. Direct technical support was also provided to PIUs through
experienced consultants in states such as Enugu.

30.     Centralized state bureaucratic procedures outside of the Project
Implementation Manual (PIM) affected efficiency in carrying out critical
administrative procedures in some states. For example, after receipt of Bank ‘no
objections’, approval procedures for contract awards and payment approvals in some of
the states involved additional approval levels including but not limited to State Executive
Councils and Governors. This caused implementation delays and affected the cost of
some contracts. At one point in Ogun state project accounts were frozen for several
months pending a review of all state finances by a new administration, precluding any
payments during that period. Issues relating to the effect of the bureaucratic procedures
such as these were raised through dialogue between the Bank and state officials, allowing
the project to move forward. However, they were not always fully resolved in a timely
manner, leading to some administrative delays.

31.    Project costs were impacted by price escalations and budget overruns in
some states. Budget overruns and outstanding payments were registered on contracts in
Ogun and Enugu states after the project closing date, due to a combination of
administrative and contract management issues on the part of the state implementing
agencies. These issues are discussed briefly below.

        a) Ogun State. Total payments due to contractors in Ogun for eligible
           expenditures completed and certified before the closing date amounted to
           about US$4.8 million11.
        b) Enugu State. Enugu state over-committed its budget under the project by an
           amount of US$6,767,744. Liabilities for eligible payments for activities
           completed by the project closing date in the state amount to about
           US$2,077,869. The remaining costs, amounting to about US$4,689,875,
           pertain to activities that were not fully completed by the project closing date,
           making them ineligible for financing from the credit, including one contract
           for which advance payment was issued but goods were not delivered at the
           time of the ICR. Reasons for the budget over-commitments in Enugu State are
           largely attributed to inadequate monitoring of allocated budgets by the state
           PIUs, some weaknesses in contract management, and cost increases resulting
           in contract variation orders during implementation.

32.     Although all participating SWAs registered improvement in overall cost
recovery, they remained dependent on state governments to finance part of their
operations. Factors that contributed to the states achieving only partial financial
viability included: (a) the limited political will at state level to grant SWAs full autonomy


11
   Cost overrun amounts are based on findings of a Financial Management Special Audit Report
commissioned by the FMWR in March 2014, to assess the cost overruns. Details concerning the overruns
and final accounts are presented in the report.



                                                 9
and to progressively raise tariffs in line with costs; (b) lower than expected increase in
revenue collections due in part to failure of government institutions to pay their water
bills in a timely manner and limited autonomy by SWAs to make decisions such as
disconnection of customers; and (c) the high costs of energy, which increased beyond
projected operational costs. These issues were constantly raised as part of dialogue with
Federal and State executives and officials, but progress remained slow.

33.
                         . For instance, Enugu and Ogun states had four and five Project
Coordinators, respectively, over the life of the project, while Kaduna had three
Coordinators. There were also frequent changes in specialist staff after they were trained
through the project. Reasons for the high turnover included frequent reassignment of PIU
staff, who were state government employees, voluntary transfer of experienced staff to
other projects and agencies with better compensation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design

34.     Design of the M&E framework. Responsibility for M&E at state level was
devolved to the respective state PIUs, while responsibility for overall coordination,
monitoring, and submission of reports was maintained at the FMWR level PIU to ensure
that results were captured effectively, collated, and submitted in a coordinated and
efficient manner. Sufficient resources were allocated under the project’s Capacity
Building and Project Management component to facilitate the process. The ICR notes
some shortcomings in design of the results framework, although it recognizes that at the
time the project was designed Bank requirements for M&E frameworks were much less
rigorous. The shortcomings mainly pertained to: (a) the absence of baseline data and
targets for critical indicators at approval, given the unreliable data situation faced at the
time; and (b) the unsuitability of the PDO indicators selected for service reliability and
financial viability. Service reliability for water supply is best measured through
assessment of water service continuity or pressure. However potential practical
limitations within the existing network to reliably measure the selected indicators,
including intermittent supply, must be taken into consideration.

M&E Implementation and Utilization

35.     Efforts were made to improve M&E during implementation. Efforts were
made as part of the project restructuring to refine the results indicators to reflect corporate
core sector indicators. Regular progress reports were prepared and submitted by the states
and FMWR throughout project implementation and progress was reflected in Bank
supervision documentation. The main challenges faced in M&E during implementation
related to: (a) the lack of regularly reliable data, especially concerning state utility
financial performance; and (b) uneven monitoring of contract management issues at state
level. For future projects, use of an independent technical auditor on an annual or bi-




                                              10
annual basis would enhance the integrity and reliability of the M&E implementation and
allow issues to be identified and addressed early.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards

36.      Overall safeguards compliance under the project was satisfactory,
considering handling of safeguards issues for project activities during the
preparation and implementation phases of the project. The project triggered four
Bank Safeguards Policies: (a) OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment (EA); (b) OP 4.12
on Involuntary Resettlement; (c) OP/BP 4.37 on Safety of Dams; and (d) OP/BP 7.50
Projects of International Waterways. The project was appropriately classified as Category
B in respect to OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), given the nature of investments.
This categorization was maintained at project restructuring and additional financing. An
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) were prepared as part of project preparation, and needed
Environmental Impact Assessments, Environment Management Plans, and Resettlement
Action Plans were prepared and generally followed for project investments. Safeguards
activities were closely supervised by the Bank, and there were no major issues related to
management of Safeguards under the project.

Fiduciary Compliance

37.     Financial Management (FM) compliance under the project was moderately
satisfactory. Responsibility for FM at the federal level lay with the Finance Department
of the FPIU, which was staffed by experienced accountants, whose capacities were
generally adequate to perform required tasks. FM responsibilities in the states lay with
state Project Financial Management Units (PFMUs) located in the offices of the
respective state Accountant Generals, which had experienced staff, and were assessed as
having effective internal controls and internal audit systems, and computerized FM
systems. The overall FM risk was assessed as Moderate at appraisal and appropriate
actions needed to address identified risks were included in the project design. Quarterly
financial reports were submitted to the Bank in a timely manner, and annual audit reports
of the project accounts by independent external auditors raised no significant issues. The
MTR noted some FM issues in form of internal control lapses and failure to follow Bank
procedures in Enugu State, which were addressed through regular supervision, audits, and
support from the Bank FM team. Some challenges in the internal control systems with
regard to budget monitoring appear to have remained in Enugu however, contributing to
the over-commitment of funds at the end of the project (see section 2.2).

38.     Implementation of the Procurement function was moderately satisfactory,
based on its overall compliance with Bank and country procedures during project
preparation and implementation for most contracts. Procurement was generally
conducted in accordance with the Bank’s Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits and specific provisions stipulated in the DCA. The FMWR PIU had
overall responsibility for management of procurement functions at the federal level, while


                                           11
the State Water Agencies were responsible for management of procurement functions at
the state level. A Procurement Capacity Assessment for the project was conducted as part
of preparation. Some weaknesses from implementation of the previous Bank financed
project were identified in respect to procurement planning, filing, and supervision.
However, the agencies responsible for managing procurement at both federal and state
levels were assessed as having considerable experience in implementing Bank financed
projects with good procurement track records in general.

39.     The Procurement Capacity Assessment in hindsight appears to have
somewhat over-estimated the PIU capacity at the state levels given that some of the
states had not been involved with previous Bank projects. The project supported
measures to strengthen capacity at all levels through training in procurement and contract
management, as well as provision of technical support from experienced external
consultants, where needed. Procurement capacity subsequently improved and
procurement activities were reviewed periodically and found to be generally satisfactory.
A post-procurement review conducted for the project confirmed that there were no major
issues procurement in any of the states.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

40.     Most project financed investments and services are currently operational
and they are contributing to the development outcomes of improved service
reliability and access to water supply in participating states. While the project has
made efforts to ensure that appropriate technical and institutional provisions are in place
to operate the facilities, issues affecting financial viability of SWAs are still a potential
threat to sustainability, unless the States continue to provide the required subsidies in the
short- to medium-term.

41.     The FMWR has initiated a program of activities to sustain reforms and
institutional capacity gains achieved through the project to advance the unfinished
reform agenda and support SWAs to improve their overall performance efficiency.
This program is being financed through Additional Financing approved in 2012 under the
ongoing Second National Urban Water Project (NUWSRP 2) financed by the Bank.
Activities in this regard include but are not limited to, establishment of the State Water
Regulatory Agencies, granting full operational autonomy to the SWAs, and promotion of
appropriate models and measures to improve operational efficiency. States such as
Kaduna intend to continue to pursue activities initiated during implementation such as its
Delegated Management Program, an internal arrangement similar to a model used in
Uganda, where the SWA jurisdiction area is divided into districts and each district office
has the responsibility for operation of its services and for generating enough revenue to
cover staff salaries as well as O&M costs. Since January 2012, Kaduna State Government
stopped providing subsidies to the SWA to cover costs for staff salaries and part of O&M.
A similar approach has been initiated on a smaller scale in Ogun.

42.   Follow on Bank Operation –Nigeria Third National Urban Water Sector
Reform Project (NUWSRP 3). In response to the continued need for addressing urban



                                             12
water supply needs in Nigeria, the GoN has prepared a new Bank financed operation that
seeks to increase access to improved water supply service in selected cities and urban
centres in Bauchi, Ekiti, and Rivers States, and to improve the financial viability of
existing water utilities in those states. While that operation will not finance investments
in any of the states that benefitted from the completed project, it includes a federal
component to strengthen the FMWR’s capacity to monitor and benchmark sector
performance and ensure increased accountability from the states for their performance.
Through this component, the FMWR will continue monitoring sector activities in Ogun,
Kaduna, and Enugu, together with activities across the country. A follow up workshop to
review lessons from the project and chart out a way forward for the sector, including for
improving planned and ongoing projects, is planned for May 2014. States are also
pursuing additional funding from other sources. Kaduna State Government has for
instance secured funding from the African Development Bank (AfDB) to finance other
infrastructural development projects.

43.    Design of the NUWRSP III has taken into consideration important lessons
from the current project. Key lessons include: (a) state selection based on performance
and demonstrated commitment to reforms, as opposed to upfront assurances for reform;
(b) creation of a limited competitive environment among states, that will allow high
performing states to access more funds; (c) concentration of investments in specific
geographic areas to enhance impact; and (d) devolution of responsibilities to states while
ensuring that there are adequate measures to ensure more intensive oversight by the
FMWR.

3Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

44.    The overall rating for relevance of objectives, design, and implementation is
Substantial on balance. The relevance of objectives is rated High, while relevance of
design and implementation is rated Substantial, as discussed below.

45.     The PDO remains highly relevant to Nigeria’s development priorities and the
Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). The GoN has long recognized the
challenges the water sector is facing, and has prioritized improvement of access to
sustainable WSS services on its development agenda. Government commitment to
addressing this issue is demonstrated through its National Transformation Agenda for
2011-2015, which reflects the national focus on infrastructure and human development,
and the provision of basic infrastructure as critical enablers of the country’s development.
The project is also relevant to the Bank’s priorities and development objectives in
partnership with Nigeria, articulated in both the CPS (FY10-13), as well as the CPS
(FY14-17). The FY10-13 CPS focused on three themes to transform and diversify
Nigeria’s economy: (i) improving governance; (ii) maintaining non-oil growth; and (iii)
promoting human development. The project supported governance reforms and
infrastructure to improve urban water supply services in Nigeria. The CPS FY14-17 has
also identified improved access to water supply and delivery of water services as central



                                            13
to improvements in health in Nigeria, alongside improvements in education, urban and
rural development, development of industry, and general economic development. The
project also contributes to improving Nigeria’s progress towards meeting its MDG with
respect to access to improved water supply service.

46.     Relevance of Design and Implementation - Rating: Substantial. The project
design rightly balanced support for physical infrastructure investments with policy
reform and institutional development activities such as exploration of PPPs at a
decentralized level. At the time the project was appraised, PSP in the water sector was
considered one of the fastest and most secure approaches to achieving utility financial
sustainability and the institutional interventions were largely focused on promoting this
approach. Considerable effort during project preparation was devoted to attempting to
determine whether the approach was the best fit for Nigeria. In view of identified risks
that not all PPP contracts would be implemented given investor perception of Nigeria as
too risky, the project design although maintaining a strong PPP focus, allowed flexibility
for states to access financing and continue implementation if they were able to
demonstrate improvements in efficiency based on public sector solutions. Indeed,
emerging experience globally has since confirmed that private sector involvement in
water supply is not necessarily a panacea and global best practice may not fit certain local
contexts. The implementation approach has taken this lesson into consideration in
applying various public sector models that have proven successful in countries such as
Uganda. Issues earlier identified in regard to the design of M&E arrangements to assess
project results (see Section 2.3) slightly downgrade the overall design and
implementation relevance in the ICR from high to substantial.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

47.      Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The ICR assesses efficacy with respect to
project outcomes as Moderately Satisfactory, based on the aggregated achievement of the
development objectives. This section assesses the extent to which the project achieved
each objective, highlighting key outputs that contributed to the outcomes. Details on the
outputs under each project component are presented in Annex 2. While the PDO as
stated in the PAD was presented as having two principle objectives: (i) to improve
reliability and financial viability of selected urban water utilities; and (ii) to increase
access to piped water networks in selected urban areas, the ICR further separates the first
objective into two distinct elements for purposes of assessing the efficacy: reliability of
services, and financial viability of selected utilities. Accordingly, in respect to efficacy,
achievement of the PDO is assessed on three equally weighted criteria: service reliability,
financial viability of utilities, and increased access to water supply.

PDO 1 - Improved reliability of services in the selected urban water utilities.
Key Outcome Indicator: Increase in water delivered through existing and extended
networks.

48.    The project fully achieved its objective of improving service reliability by
increasing the overall amount of water delivered to more than five million people in



                                             14
the participating utility service areas, exceeding the original targets in all states.
Based on the outcome indicators at project completion, achievement of the targets in
terms of increased water supplied varied from state to state, with Kaduna, Ogun, and
Enugu States exceeding the targets by 31 percent, 12.5 percent, and 37.5 percent,
respectively; the combined target for the three states was exceeded by about 14 percent.
The overall improvement in service reliability was further reflected in the achievement of
the intermediate outcome in terms of increased water availability to end users, defined as
at least 20 percent increase in water availability in all three SWAs. This target was
exceeded in all SWAs. Additionally, most customers surveyed through a Beneficiary
Impact Assessment12 commissioned by the FMWR at the end of the project confirmed
significant improvement in the quality, quantity, regularity, and pressure of water
supplied by their respective SWAs, even though there were some disparities in perceived
impact, based on factors such as location, elevation, and availability of power supply.
Improved regularity and pressure further confirm water service reliability improvements.
While the Beneficiary Assessment confirmed the project’s overall positive impact on
service reliability, it pointed to the need for continued investment in water supply by the
states to address remaining service quality and reliability issues.

49.      Outputs to Improve Service Reliability: The project, through the Rehabilitation
and Network Expansion component, financed water production and distribution network
rehabilitation and expansion activities, which contributed directly to improving the
reliability of water services and reaching more unserved people. Thirteen water treatment
plants were rehabilitated and restored to operate at their installed capacity, increasing
production from an average baseline of about 250 million cubic meters per year to 865
million cubic meters a year. Production was however curbed in many cases by the
availability of power supply, and production facilities are operating at an average of
about 85 percent of their capacity. In addition, about 492.5 km of distribution network
were rehabilitated in the three states, resulting in increased service performance in terms
of water delivery and pressure, which also contribute to service reliability.

PDO 2 - Improved financial viability of selected urban water utilities.
Key Outcome Indicator: Improvement in cost recovery (million increase in cash flow).

50.      The project partially achieved its objective of improving financial viability,
and is putting in place measures to sustain the reforms initiated. While notable
improvements towards financial viability have been achieved in all three states, which all
registered substantial revenue increases as a result of the project, progress towards full
viability has been slower than envisaged due to a range of factors, including: tariffs that
do not cover full operations and maintenance costs, low collections from large
institutional customers including federal and state government agencies, and high energy
costs. The three utilities were able to achieve an average of 60 percent operations and
maintenance cost coverage (Intermediate Outcome Indicator 8), ranging from 75 percent
in Kaduna to 40 percent in Ogun state. There have also been significant improvements in


12
     Details on the findings of that Assessment are presented in Annex 5.



                                                      15
performance in terms of collection efficiency in all three states, with Enugu and Kaduna
achieving 80 and 85 percent, respectively while Ogun achieved 70 percent, against a
target of 80 percent on average. These improvements represent positive progress towards
financial viability.

51.      Outputs. The project, through the Capacity Building and Project Management, as
well as the Public Private Partnerships Development components, supported institutional
strengthening, capacity building, and reform activities intended to improve the
operational and commercial capacity of the SWAs to deliver water supply services in an
efficient manner, including improving the SWA financial viability. While the above
activities have contributed to some improvements in cost recovery, there is still need for
substantial support to the SWAs in terms of activities geared to enhance their financial
viability. Recognizing that the financial viability of low-performance utilities requires
consistent attention and perseverance within the local political economy context, post
completion action plans to advance the reform process are being developed and
advanced with support from the on-going NUWSRP2 (Additional Financing) project.

PDO 3 – Increased access to piped water networks in selected urban areas.
Key Outcome Indicator: Increase in number of household connections.

52.     The project fully achieved and in fact exceeded its objective of increasing
access to piped water networks in the selected urban areas of Ogun, Kaduna, and
Enugu States. The network extensions in all three states enabled connection of about
70,846 households to the piped water network, significantly exceeding the targeted
50,000 households, providing access to 4.3 million people. While not explicitly measured
as part of monitoring, access to improved water supply services is expected to bestow
benefits on many levels, including greater convenience to beneficiaries in accessing water
on their premises, and associated impacts on health from reduced risk of waterborne
disease, as well as on productivity through reduced time spent collecting water, especially
for women who are primarily responsible for water collection in many households.

53.     Outputs. The distribution network was extended by about 284 km, providing
improved access to more people that were previously unserved, mostly in the peri urban
areas adjacent to the state capitals. These extensions, combined with about 492.5 km of
distribution network rehabilitations in the three states, resulted in improved access to
piped water for over 70,800 new registered households or 4.3 million more people.

Table 3.1. Summary of Efficacy of Achievement of Development Objectives by State

 Description     Improved reliability of   Improved financial    Increased access to piped
                     water supply           viability of SWA         water networks
                     (Weight 1/3)             (Weight 1/3)             (Weight 1/3)
Kaduna              Fully achieved          Partially achieved        Fully achieved
Ogun                Fully achieved          Partially achieved        Fully achieved
Enugu               Fully achieved          Partially achieved        Fully achieved
Total               Fully achieved          Partially achieved        Fully achieved



                                            16
54.     Based on the above, the project achieved its two objectives relating to physical
investments and associated service improvement outcomes in terms of reliability and
access to water, but only partially achieved its objective regarding improved financial
viability of the SWAs. The overall efficacy of achievement of the project objectives is
therefore considered as having been Moderately Satisfactory on balance.

3.3 Efficiency

55.    Rating: Moderate. Efficiency of the project is rated Moderate on balance, based
on the aggregated result of the economic and financial analysis conducted as part of the
ICR, as well as other pertinent factors such as the implementation time, and the project
costs. A summary of the results of the financial and economic analysis is presented
below.

56.     Economic Analysis. The main objective of the economic analysis was to confirm
the economic viability of the overall operation projected during project preparation. It
took into consideration direct and indirect costs and benefits, and converted the financial
prices into economic costs through shadow pricing aimed at eliminating the effects of
participating state governments’ interventions and market distortions. Details are
provided in Annex 3. Two main sets of benefit streams were considered: revenue from
water supply, and expected health benefits. Environmental and employment benefits,
which represent additional returns of significant value for the project, were however not
quantified or applied in determining the Economic Rates of Return (ERRs), due to lack of
usable data. The total benefits quantified in the cost-benefit analysis should thus be
interpreted as a conservative lower bound estimate. The project’s viability is based o n the
ERRs and NPVs of the measurable, incremental benefits and total project costs using
actual investment expenditures from IDA and Government, as well as annual O&M costs
throughout the 20-year period through 2024 at a 12 percent discount rate.

57.      The analysis reveals that actual economic indicators (ERRs) are close to
those projected during appraisal. In fact, if non-quantified environmental and
employment benefits were accounted for, the ERRs would be greater than those
projected at appraisal. All the assumptions considered during the production of the
initial analysis have been kept unchanged. The benefit streams were estimated under the
following additional assumptions: (i) increase in billing and collection rates observed
would be 40% and 78% respectively from 2014 to 2024; (ii) the average increase in
operating and maintenance costs of 9% observed during the 9-year period of project
implementation would be sustained through 2024; and (iii) the Federal and State
Governments would not provide subsidies to the three SWAs. Table 3.2 below
summarizes ERRs and NPVs in the three states based on these assumptions.




                                            17
Table 3.2: Results of the Economic Analysis of NUWSRP
                         Overall Project Economic Viability
                     ICR (at completion)                 PAD (at appraisal)
                   ERR            NPV (USD)          ERR           NPV (USD)
Kaduna             23%            70,990,000         25%            21,854,000
Ogun               14%             8,697,000         16%            18,543,000
Enugu              15%            12,189,000           -                 -

58.      Financial Analysis: The financial analysis focuses on a cost-benefit analysis and
zeroes in on productive investments financed under Component 1 (Rehabilitation of
Water Supply System). The main objective of the analysis was to verify whether
implementation of project activities positively impacted the financial viability of water
utilities in the three participating states, taking into account only related direct costs and
benefits. The analysis covers 20 years, including 9 years of project implementation
(2005-2013), and 11 years of projected costs and benefits (2014-2024). Results of this
analysis in terms of Internal Rates of Return (IRRs) and Net Present Values (NPVs) at 12
percent discount rate are summarized in Table 3.3 below.

Table 3.3: Results of the financial analysis of NUWSRP
                          Overall Project Financial Viability
                                   ICR                                            PAD
                            IRR          NPV (USD)          IRR                      NPV (USD)
Kaduna                      15%           23,203,000        22%                      19,867,000
Ogun                         7%          (24,764,000)       21%                      16,556,000
      13
Enugu                       13%            5,836,000          -                           -

59.     Based on the analysis, Kaduna and Enugu water utilities are considered to
have been financially viable given that their respective IRRs exceed the 12 percent
cost of capital, even though the projected financial efficiency at appraisal was not
fully achieved for Kaduna and Ogun SWAs. The substantial difference between the
PAD and ICR financial IRRs for Kaduna and Ogun SWAs is attributed to factors such as:
(a) the project cost overruns due to the significant increase in prices of materials and
equipment worldwide; (b) the slow increase in billing rates during implementation; (c)
high O&M costs – especially energy - compared to revenues; and (d) the substantial
difference in appraisal and final project costs14.




13
   Economic and financial analysis was not conducted for Enugu at appraisal since the state was not
originally included in the project.
14
   In both the financial and economic analyses, IRR, ERRs and NPVs estimated for the ICR are based on
US$210 million (175% of project appraisal costs). PAD financial and economic indicators were based on
the project’s initial investment amount of US$120 million which were based on very preliminary designs
(as opposed to detailed designs).



                                                  18
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

60.     Rating: The project’s overall outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory
considering the aggregate of its relevance, the efficacy of achieving the PDO, and
efficiency. The relevance of PDO and design and implementation was Substantial, and
the project was able to achieve Moderately Satisfactory efficacy with Moderate
efficiency. The project has resulted in improved service reliability and access to water
supply to about 5,377,449 people in the participating states, exceeding the target by over
375,000 people. While utility financial viability outcomes are not fully achieved yet,
there have been improvements and resources have been allocated to ensure that the
momentum of reforms initiated through the project is maintained towards this end.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

61.    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development. While no formal
assessment of the project’s poverty impacts has been made, it can be reasonably
concluded that in targeting the water supply investments to improve the living conditions
of people in peri-urban as well as state capitals, many of whom are poor, the project
improved the well-being of these people to some extent and as such, contributed to
conditions that would alleviate poverty in these areas. The project also financed a
National Strategy to Increase Low Income Household Connections under its Federal
component. States are already implementing this strategy through their customer
enumeration exercises. In terms of gender, the burdens related to poor access to water
supply services fall disproportionately on women and children in Nigeria, as in many
other developing countries. It can therefore be reasonably concluded that the project’s
impacts on gender among the beneficiary population have been positive even though a
formal impact assessment was not conducted.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

62.      The project has strengthened institutional capacity in FMWR and
participating states to manage water supply service delivery in their jurisdictions.
The project has registered achievements in terms of capacity built in these institutions to
manage water supply services more effectively, and has been instrumental in establishing
the basic support structures to set the stage for further development of the sector. The
project has also set the stage for improving the enabling environment for promotion of
PPPs and other models for improved service delivery and accountability through the
establishment of the National Water Policy and drafting of enabling laws to establish the
State Water Regulatory Agencies. Given the history of slow progress on these reforms,
accession to the laws and establishment of the Regulatory Agencies will require political
will at the state level, as well as continued engagement of the FMWR to hold the states
accountable for implementation of these activities. The project has also supported efforts
to initiate the establishment of public and private sector management models, including
the use of Delegated Management Contract arrangements and the use of Performance
Contracts between states and SWAs to improve commercial orientation of utilities and
performance accountability, based on models that have worked in countries such as
Uganda. Preliminary results indicate that the approaches are achieving some


                                            19
improvements in terms of revenue collection and staff motivation in Kaduna and Ogun
State SWAs. The ICR notes that there is still need for further strengthening and continued
support, and full achievement of the needed reforms will be a long-term undertaking. The
Additional Funding under the NUWSRP 2 will provide continued support to the SWAs to
support initiatives to implement such reforms.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

63.    There were no significant unintended outcomes.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

64.     A Beneficiary Survey commissioned by the FMWR in the three participating
states in January 2014 to assess the extent to which the project achieved desired
development outcomes confirmed the substantial achievement of the PDO, with the
shortcomings as discussed under the section on Achievement of Outcomes. Overall,
service improvements were generally higher for customers residing in the state capitals
compared with those in the peri-urban areas. A more detailed summary of the main
findings is presented in Annex 5 and the full report is in the project files.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

65.     The ICR considers that the risk that development outcomes from the project
will not be maintained is Substantial, and the Government should ensure that
adequate mitigation measures are in place to address the pertinent issues.
Maintenance and/or further improvement of the project’s development outcomes will
depend on a number of financial, institutional, political, social, and economic factors. The
sustainability of reliable water supply service delivery and uptake by all users is subject
to issues such as: adequate operation and maintenance of systems; cost recovery; and
continuing support and enforcement of enabling policies to maintain services, the failure
of which could pose a risk to maintaining the outcomes.

66.     Financial and Institutional Risks. Risks to development outcome from a
financial and institutional perspective are considered substantial. Financial risks mainly
relate to threats to the long-term financial viability of SWAs. While the project has
helped SWAs to improve their overall collection efficiency, they are yet to recover their
costs, and states will have to make adequate budgetary provisions for subsidies to
maintain service provision in the short- to medium-term. Mitigation of this risk will
depend on a combination of political will and further support for institutional
development, primarily involving state governments granting the SWAs greater financial
and operational autonomy, and provision of continued support for implementation of
needed reforms and policies to improve cost recovery and ensure sound operational
management of services and resources. As mentioned earlier, the SWAs are expected to
benefit from continued support for further implementation of reform and institutional
development under the Additional Financing for the NUWSRP 2.




                                            20
67.     Technical and Operational Risks. Risks to development outcome from a
technical perspective are not considered significant in the short to medium term.
Technical risks to maintaining development outcomes mainly relate to factors affecting
operations, such as; (i) the lack of reliable power supply, which limit capacity utilization
of water production and distribution systems; (ii) the quality of investments; and (iii)
inadequate operation and maintenance of facilities leading to asset deterioration and
unreliable services, an issue inter-linked with the financial and institutional risks
discussed above. While the quality of construction of investments and technologies used
were appropriate for achieving the desired improvements in service reliability and access,
unreliable power supply continues to be a major constraint to the SWAs operations,
especially in respect to water production and treatment. The SWAs have adopted
measures such as the use of stand-by generators to try to mitigate this risk. However costs
are high and difficult to sustain due to high fuel costs in Nigeria.

68.    Economic and Social Risks. Finally, risks to development outcome from a social
and economic perspective are considered modest. Risks relate in part to motivation for
consumers to use the services based on concerns such as affordability for instance in light
of new policies requiring payment of higher tariffs. This is not considered a major risk
given the dire need for water supply services in the targeted areas, as well as the
implementation of policies supported through the project to ensure acceptable
arrangements for low income customers.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

69.     Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry
is rated Moderately Satisfactory. Overall, Bank allocation of staff and resources were
adequate and substantial preparatory analytical work was carried out to facilitate sound
preparation and appraisal of the Project. The Bank team helped to mobilize resources to
support project preparation, though a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) and a Japan
Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant and overall the design was
prepared in close consultation with the GoN. Project appraisal took into consideration
pertinent technical, financial, and economic principles. Fiduciary and safeguards
arrangements were well prepared, consistent with the Bank’s fiduciary and safeguards
requirements. The one area that could clearly have received more attention from the Bank
team during project preparation was the M&E system (see Section 2.3 above).

(b) Quality of Supervision

70.     Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The quality of supervision is rated Moderately
Satisfactory on balance because most elements of project supervision, including the


                                              21
fiduciary, safeguards, and technical support for implementation were conducted in a
satisfactory manner with moderate shortcomings. The ICR notes on the one hand that
adequate budget was allocated throughout the Project implementation period, and project
supervision was carried out at least twice a year, with a mix of country and headquarter-
based staff complementing each other. Having a country based task team leader for the
larger part of implementation allowed most issues to be proactively followed up as
needed with counterparts, and addressed as they occurred through continuous dialogue.
For instance, the dialogue and support provided to the Borrower to restructure the project
and provide additional financing was critical to the final achievement of the project’s
objectives in the face of implementation delays and cost overruns earlier in the project.
Moderate supervision shortcomings noted by the ICR relate to the fact that: (a) the Bank
team paid less attention to monitoring of SWA financial status compared to physical
investment components; and (b) the weak contract management observed in the final
stages of implementation in Enugu and Ogun were not detected by the Bank team
sufficiently early on to address them.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

71.     Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The ICR rates the overall Bank performance
as Moderately Satisfactory given the Moderately Satisfactory project quality at entry and
quality of supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

72.     Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The ICR assesses Government performance as
Moderately Satisfactory on balance as well, considering the aggregate of performance of
the Ministry of Finance (MoF) as the Borrower and the line Ministry (FMWR) which
implemented the project on behalf of the Borrower through its PIU, during project
preparation and implementation. Federal Government commitment to the project was
considered to have been adequate at the time of entry. The FMWR provided the overall
vision and direction for the sector, and was instrumental in defining the project design
with the Bank through an extensive consultation process. Once an appropriate approach
was agreed upon, Government’s commitment to the project was confirmed through a
Letter of Sector Policy from the FMWR, dated December 30, 2003.

73.     FMOF and FMWR generally complied with agreed covenants in accordance with
Legal Agreements with the Bank. The FMWR, through its Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), maintained close coordination and dialogue with relevant government entities and
the Bank to address policy and implementation issues as they arose. The FMWR PIU was
able to manage implementation of activities at the Federal level in a satisfactory manner
and to provide general oversight and backstopping to the SWAs on aspects such as
procurement for many of the project activities. There were some shortcomings however
in the Federal PIU’s monitoring of some implementation issues at the state level. While
the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) was clear on the roles and responsibilities of



                                           22
the different implementing parties, it appears that the span of control and coordinating
responsibilities of the FMWR PIU were not properly understood or followed by some
state PIUs. The FMWR PIU was therefore sometimes by-passed on critical information
flows. This contributed to the failure of the FMWR to detect the over-commitments that
occurred in Enugu State and the delayed withdrawal applications in Ogun at the closing
of the project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

74.     Implementation for state components was managed by the SPIUs which were
overseen by the respective state governments. Given the mixed performance of the
individual state implementing agencies relative to one another, the ICR rates the
implementing agency performance Moderately Satisfactory on balance, considering the
aggregate of the different states PIU and state governments’ performance in effectively
supporting project preparation and implementation to contribute to achievement of the
overall project development outcomes.

75.     State PIUs. The performance of the project implementing agencies varied
from state to state, and while it is noted that some PIUs performance was stronger
than others, the ICR considers the aggregate of the extent to which the three PIUs
were able to effectively support project preparation and implementation. The ICR
recognizes the SWAs’ overall commitment to project preparation and implementation.
The design of project implementation arrangements acknowledged existing capacity
constraints within SWAs at the individual state level and included measures to strengthen
their PIU capacity through training and support from experienced consultants and the
PCU. Successful implementation of most investments as well as management of fiduciary,
safeguards, and other implementation aspects for most activities with minor or moderate
shortcomings is testament to the capacity built through the project and the support
provided. While Kaduna and Ogun PIU’s performance was generally satisfactory with
moderate shortcomings, there were substantive performance shortcomings in Enugu as
earlier discussed in relation to the findings of the Financial Audit commissioned by the
FMWR, which highlighted issues with contract management.

76.     Ogun, Kaduna, and Enugu State governments played their mandated roles in
providing general oversight and financial support to the water utilities, and they generally
supported progress towards achievement of the project’s development objectives in terms
of improved service reliability and increased access to water supply based on
implementation of physical investments. There were however shortcomings, to varying
extents, in state performance as also reflected in the performance of the SPIUs.

77.     The ICR rates the relative performance of the individual state implementing
agencies based on consideration of criteria such as management of fiduciary aspects,
overall management of the investment and reform activities, and timely resolution of
implementation issues. Table 5.1 below provides a summary of the relative performance
of the individual state PIUs based on a scale of 1-6, with 1 representing Unsatisfactory, 2-


                                            23
Unsatisfactory, 3-Moderately Unsatisfactory, 4-Moderately Satisfactory, 5-Satisfactory
and 6-Highly Satisfactory.

Table 5.1 Ratings of Individual State PIU performance
Description                         Score
Kaduna State PIU                    5             Satisfactory
Ogun State PIU                      4             Moderately Satisfactory
Enugu State PIU                     3             Moderately Unsatisfactory
Average Rating                      4             Moderately Satisfactory

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

78.     Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The ICR rates the overall Borrower
performance as Moderately Satisfactory, based on the Federal Government (FMoF and
FMWR) Moderately Satisfactory rating, the State Governments and PIUs Moderately
Satisfactory rating, and the overall Moderately Satisfactory project outcome.

6. Lessons Learned

79.     Appropriateness of reform program for local context. Projects involving the
introduction of significant reforms to improve sector outcomes based on global good
practice should set realistic timeframes and targets based on candid assessment of the
local context, including the political economy, market risks and the sector’s ability to
hedge them, and sector readiness for proposed changes, as well as recognition of the fact
that reform is a long-term process that requires the engagement, commitment, and
support of all key stakeholders.

80.    Need for incentives and champions for states to advance reforms.


              rojects need to identify strong national and local champions to advance
needed reforms. Project design should also include incentives to make Borrowers more
accountable for achieving results on all critical activities, including reforms required to
ensure achievement of development outcomes. Incentives such as state selection to
participate in projects based on demonstrated achievement of critical reforms, or to
access additional funds during implementation should be built into projects. This
approach is the backbone of the NUWSRP 3 design.

81.     Need for appropriate internal controls. The design of project implementation
arrangements that are decentralized to the sub-national level such as state level, should
ensure that adequate checks and controls are included and enforced in supervision
arrangements, especially where capacity is an issue. While the addition of extra layers of
oversight is not desirable, there is value in including mechanisms at federal level to
ensure closer monitoring of critical activities such as award of large contracts at the sub-
national level. Detailed arrangements should be agreed by all parties and included in the
Project Implementation Manual. Project design should also ensure that adequate contract


                                            24
management capacity is built in implementing agencies at both federal and state level to
support these activities.

82.     Incentives for project staff and need for appropriate skills mix. The design of
project implementation arrangements should ensure that staffing policies include
incentives that promote the retention of experienced staff seconded by government or
externally sourced who have benefitted from capacity building opportunities provided
through the project. The high turnover of project staff could have been reduced through a
combination of incentives, such as, appropriate competitive compensation and/or benefits
compared to the market, contractual policies to maintain services for a given period, and
policies that allow government staff working on the project to be maintained for
reasonable periods of time. Additionally, projects with significant reforms aiming to
improve utility performance should include an adequate skill mix, including staff with
sound institutional reform experience, as well as Financial Analysts with experience in
Water Supply and Sanitation Utility management.

83.      Independent technical audits to strengthen M&E. The use of an independent
technical auditor on an annual or bi-annual basis would enhance the integrity and
reliability of the project monitoring data. There were gaps in respect to the integrity and
reliability of some of the data and information generated for the project, for instance in
respect to financial performance of utilities. This finding also underscores the need for
M&E during implementation to not only focus on the limited scope of indicators in the
results framework, but also to regularly review other important aspects of sector
performance and contract management.

84.      Assessment of implementation readiness. Assessment of project implementation
readiness should not only focus on having a procurement plan for the first year of
implementation, but also pay adequate attention to completing critical preparatory
activities such as detailed designs for investments, to allow for timely commencement
and implementation of activities once the loan or credit becomes effective. Project start
up in this case was delayed due to the lack of ‘shovel ready’ sizeable investments when
the project became effective.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
85.    Not applicable.

(b) Cofinanciers
86.    Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
87.    Not applicable.




                                            25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                                            Percentage of
           Components                              Estimate15 (USD
                                  (USD millions)                                               Appraisal
                                                       millions)
Component 1: Rehabilitation and
                                       105.50             149.4                                   142
Network Extension
Component 2: Public-private
                                        16.50               3.6                                    22
Partnership Development
Component 3: Capacity Building
                                         9.85              28.5                                   289
and Project Management
Component 4; Policy Reform and
                                         5.30               2.5                                    47
Institutional Development

                 Total Baseline Cost                137.15                   184.0                131
Contingencies (Physical and
                                                                                                  1363
Price)                                                  1.35                  18.4
             Total Project Costs                    140.00                   202.4                145
Front-end fee PPF                                     0.00                     0

                  Total Project Costs               140.00                   202.4                145

(b) Financing
                                                             Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                             Estimate    Estimate
                                                  Type of                            Percentage of
              Source of Funds                                  (USD       (USD
                                                Cofinancing                           Appraisal
                                                              millions   millions
                                                            equivalent) equivalent)
                                               Counterpart
Borrower                                                       20.00        2.4           12
                                               funds
International Development
                                               Credit               120.00           200.00             167
Association (IDA)
Total                                                               140.00           202.4              145




15
     The actual/final costs in the table include the additional financing.



                                                         26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The project comprised the following four broad components.

Component 1: Rehabilitation and Network Expansion (US$105.5 million): This
component was to finance support for: (a) rehabilitation of water production
infrastructure to restore water systems to operate at installed capacity; (b) purchase of
essential vehicles and specialized rolling stock for the SWAs; (c) supply and installation
of production and zonal meters to provide vital operational information; (d) safety
enhancements of dams located within the project States, including those that are owned
by the Federal Government but located within States; (e) distribution system expansion
once PPP contracts are in place or the relevant SWA demonstrates a high degree of
operational capacity and efficiency, as well as financial autonomy; and (f) preparation of
a follow on project.

Component 2: Public-Private Partnerships (US$16.5 million): This component was to
support Public Private Partnerships in selected States which were expected to enter into
such partnerships for management of their SWAs, to rebuild technical and commercial
capacity and assure adequate operation and maintenance arrangements. The private sector
operator contracts were expected to be five year management contracts, and costs
covered design, tendering, and payment of operators’ fees.

Component 3: Capacity Building and Project Management (US$9.85 million): This
component was to support capacity building and project management in the FMWR and
the State Water Authorities. Expenditures were to include project management costs,
stakeholder communication programs, training, and office equipment. Additionally
support was to be given to the FMWR for its work in sector coordination and reform and
capacity building, including to help in raising the performance of non-participating States
to be able to participate in the continuing national reform program. Further studies to
prepare additional States for PPP contracts would be included.

Component 4: Policy Reform and Institutional Development (US$5.3 million): This
Component was to: (a) support the FMWR to develop a national low income household
service strategy; (b) assist in the establishment of State Water Regulatory Authorities; (c)
complete and implement a National Water Policy and carry out initial, and then annual,
Water Investment Mobilization and Application Guidelines (WIMAG) conferences. In
regard to the regulatory framework, the Project was to: (i) support establishment of the
regulators as quickly as possible; (ii) support training of the regulators’ staff over several
years so that they are capable of carrying out their mandate; and (iii) help the State
governments determine when the regulators have gained sufficient expertise and capacity
to practically assume regulatory functions.

A summary of key outputs by State is detailed below.




                                             27
A. SUMMARY OF KEY OUTPUTS IN ENUGU STATE

Component 1 - Rehabilitation and Network Expansion (Enugu)

The NUWSRP targeted rehabilitation and network expansion of the water supply system
in order to restore the water treatment plants to the installed capacity. This component
had the highest budget allocation and most of the planned activities covering the
consultancy and construction works have been undertaken. Key outputs under
Component 1 in Enugu included the following.

(i)    Rehabilitation of water treatment plants/schemes at Ajalli-Owa, Nsukka, Iva
Spring were completed, while the rehabilitation of Oji Augmentation scheme is still
ongoing. The schemes were rehabilitated in phases depending on the availability of funds.
Ajalli water scheme has now been rehabilitated to almost 90% design capacity and is
ready for commissioning.
(ii)   A total of 98.2 km of distribution network was rehabilitated. This involved
replacement of old AC lines and new extensions. The project also financed procurement
of 16 operational vehicles for the Corporation. The project also embarked on metering of
customer connections and as at the time of the evaluation a total of 3,500 prepaid meters
were being installed. The project also rehabilitated the ENSWC office block.

Component 2 - Public-Private Partnerships (Enugu)

It was anticipated that ENSWC would enter into a PPP for the management of the water
supply facilities to rebuild technical and commercial capacity and ensure adequate
operation and maintenance arrangement in the State. The project intended to; - finance
studies to confirm and refine the appropriate PPP model; - transaction preparation,
bidding and award. The PPP Operator was to - improve service delivery through
contractual performance benchmarks; - improving ENSWC performance; - system
rehabilitation; - network expansion; and - environmental management. The Corporation
has not made much progress in the PPP aspect. ENSWC still manages the water system
directly and has not engaged any PPP for the management of the water supply system as
envisaged at project inception. Key outputs under Component 2 in Enugu included the
following.
(i)     About 2 years ago Enugu State Government piloted a private contractor financed
project aimed at replacing most of the old A.C distribution pipe network of up to
1000Km. However, the Contracts were terminated for poor performance by the
Contractors.
(ii)    A private company (Electrictel Nig Ltd) has been engaged to supply, install, and
maintain prepaid water meters. A total of 489 pre-paid water meters have so far been
installed. About 5% of the ENSWC’s Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) comes from
this source.




                                           28
Component 3 - Capacity Building & Project Management (Enugu)

It was planned that the Project would support Capacity Building and Project Management
of Enugu State Water Corporation. The envisaged support included: project management
costs, stakeholder communication programs, training and office equipment. ENSWC has
made progress in implementation of this component. Key outputs under Component 3 in
Enugu included the following.
(i)     The installation of accounting software (Navision) which has helped in
automation of the accounting system.
(ii)    Installation of a billing software (Access based) that is being used for bill
generation and accessing historical customer information. This is a big Not consistent
with Para. 32improvement from the previously manual billing system. However, the
billing system doesn’t capture the prepaid meter information and this is stored separately.
There is need for a more robust system that can have all the customer information stored
in one place. Designated staff of the SWA have been dully trained and are already
working with the accounting and billing Software.
(iii) A series of trainings and international benchmarking tours were undertaken both
within and outside the Country by staff. However, training has mainly been for PIU and
senior management staff. The middle and lower operational staff have not benefited from
the trainings.
(iv)    Stakeholder outreach was undertaken, mostly in the form of media releases and
street campaigns.
(v)     A financial model (excel-based) for the utility was developed and introduced
under the project to develop scenarios that would enable ENSWC to break-even. The
limitation is that the quality of the input data available is not good and a lot of
assumptions are made in the computations and therefore the results of the model are not
very reliable.

Component 4 -Policy Reform & Institutional Development (Enugu)

Under this component, Enugu State was supposed to undertake the following activities:
formulation and/or amendment of appropriate legislation, establishment of regulatory
body; public communication outreach and information dissemination; and environmental
regulation. The project planned to support staff of the regulatory body over several years
until they are capable of carrying out their mandate.

Outputs from this component in Enugu are summarized below.
(i)    Draft State water policy and laws for establishing regulatory commission have
been done but are not yet approved by the State Government. The draft water bill to
address Institutional and regulatory frame- work is yet to be presented to the State
Executive Council for approval. This has dragged on for several years. The point of
contention is partly on provision in the draft law that creates a separate entity for small


                                            29
towns in addition to the traditional rural and urban entities. More strategic engagement of
the State government is required to get the legislation passed.
(ii)    No progress has been made in establishment of the regulatory body and training
of the regulator staff.
(iii) The Enugu State Government has established a Water Mobile Court to address
issues associated with revenue collection, illegal connections, and meters by-pass among
others. The appropriateness of this strategy is yet to be established.




                                            30
B. SUMMARY OF KEY OUTPUTS IN KADUNA STATE

Component 1: Rehabilitation of water treatment plant and network expansion
(Kaduna)
The NUWSRP targeted rehabilitation and network expansion of the water supply system
in order to restore the water treatment plants to the installed capacity. The initial scope of
the project included rehabilitation and expansion of existing infrastructure in the towns of
Kaduna, Zaria, Kafanchan, Kagoro, Zonkwa and Saminaka; as well as rehabilitation of
dams in the towns of Kaduna, Zaria, Birnin Gwari, Ikara, and Saminaka. However, only
eight Water Works have been substantially rehabilitated under the project; Kaduna -
North Old and Kaduna- New Water Works, Kaduna South Water Works, Zaria water
scheme, Saminaka Water scheme, Kafanchan/Kagoro scheme, and Zonkwa scheme.


Component 2: Public –Private Partnerships Development (Kaduna)
Under the project, it was anticipated that KSWB would enter into a PPP for the
management of the water supply facilities to rebuild technical and commercial capacity
and ensure adequate operation and maintenance arrangement in the towns of Kaduna and
Zaria. The project intended to; finance studies to confirm and refine the appropriate PPP
model, as well as transaction preparation, bidding and award. The PPP Operator was to
improve service delivery through contractual performance benchmarks; improving
KSWB performance; system rehabilitation; network expansion; and environmental
management.
The KSWB engaged a Private Operator, Oretch Nig Ltd, in July 2008 to operate and
maintain Kaduna and Zaria Water Treatment Plants and Booster Stations. This contract
was later integrated into the project by Government with effect from July 2009 to July
2011. KSWB benefited from the contract through improved capacities, both systems and
staff, to provide efficient service to the people of Kaduna State. One of the criticism of
the contract was that it lacked performance-based incentives/penalties and the Operator
would be paid his fees regardless of the level of performance.
Component 3: Capacity Building and Project Management (Kaduna)
The objective was to develop the core competences of KSWB to ensure service
sustainability and the achievement of the statutory functions of the board especially in
staff capacity development and improvement in systems and procedures. In addition,
under this component, the project also intended to conduct a number of studies including;
willingness-to-pay and tariff studies; investment planning and sanitation/environmental
studies; financial modeling, customer enumeration, preparation/updating of assets
register; public communication outreach and information dissemination.



                                             31
(i)     The project provided a series of capacity building opportunities to KSWB staff,
especially the PIU staff, through formal and informal training, study tours, conferences,
project annual reviews, workshops, among others. More than half of the utility staff
benefited from the capacity building programmes of the project.

(ii)     The following system improvements and studies were also carried out;
        Financial model for forecasting and modelling the long term financial viability of
the utility under different scenarios
        Monitoring and evaluation system both for the project and utility operations
        Customer enumeration to update the customer details
        Improvement in the billing system and Human Resource Management Systems
        Updating of the asset register


Component 4: Policy Reform and Institutional Development (Kaduna)
Under this Component, Kaduna State was supposed to undertake the following activities:
formulation and/or amendment of appropriate legislation, establishment of regulatory
body; public communication outreach and information dissemination; and environmental
regulation. The following outputs were achieved.
(i)     A reform committee was established and the project supported the State in the
development of the State Water and Sanitation Policy 2013, the amendment of the
KSWB law, and the communication outreach programme. The Policy was approved by
the State Government. However, the law is still under review and KSWB is being
supported by the project to have the law amended. The establishment of a Kaduna State
Water Regulatory Commission to regulate both public and private service providers is yet
to be done.

C. SUMMARY OF KEY OUTPUTS IN OGUN STATE

Component 1: Rehabilitation of Water Treatment Plants and Network Expansion
The NUWSRP targeted rehabilitation and network expansion of the six water supply
schemes in Abeokuta , Ijebu-ode, Segamu, Ogere, Ifo-Akinside and Apoje. In addition,
the project also targeted network expansion in the areas of Abeokuta, Ilaro, Ijebu-igbo
(Apoje), Ijebu-ode, Sagamu, and Ogere.
(i)     The rehabilitation of the six water supply project schemes at Abeokuta, Ijebu-ode,
Ogere, Ifo-Akinside and Apoje have all been successfully completed. The water schemes
at Ijebu-Ode, Ogere,Ifo-Akinside and Apoje have been fully rehabilitated to the design
capacities while the rehabilitation of the treatment processes at Abeokuta scheme not
included in the initial rehabilitation under Phase 1 but which will fully rehabilitate the


                                            32
scheme to the installed capacity (82mld) is still on-going. Similarly, the construction of
the intake structures at Sagamu water scheme necessary to achieve the 7.8 mld design
capacity is also on-going.
(ii)    The following pipe network expansion works are still on-going, with support from
the State: Abeokuta (13km), Ijebu-Igbo (10km), Ogere (8km), Sagamu (3km),
Ifo/Ilaro/Papalanto (8km and transmission mains of 22km), Ijebu-Ode (5km).
Component 2: Public Private Partnerships Development (Ogun)
Under the project, it was anticipated that OGSWC would enter into a PPP for the
management of the water supply facilities to rebuild technical and commercial capacity
and ensure adequate operation and maintenance arrangement in the selected towns. The
project intended to finance: studies to confirm and refine the appropriate PPP model; as
well as transaction preparation, bidding and award. The PPP Operator was envisaged to
improve service delivery through contractual performance benchmarks; improving
OGSWC performance; system rehabilitation; network expansion; and environmental
management. State delegates from the Executive, the Judiciary, Finance, House of
assembly, other Government Officials and Management of OGWSC embarked on
benchmarking and study tours of African countries including South Africa, Uganda,
Kenya, and Ghana which have been engaged in various forms of PPP, to review
successful models and select a suitable option for Ogun. The State opted to adopt a
Public-Public Partnership model in form of Internally Delegated Management Contracts
(IDAMC), based on the Uganda National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC)
model. The OGSWC Management signed the OGSWC Internally Delegated Management
Contracts (OGIDAMC) with its nine regions with emphasis on performance target setting,
operational autonomy, use of incentives and effective Monitoring /Evaluation to enhance
performance and financial sustainability of OGWSC. The long term intention is to
upscale the internally delegated management contracts into higher forms of PPP options,
Lease or Concession.
Component 3: Capacity Building and Project Management (Ogun)
The component objective was to develop the core competences of OGSWC to ensure
service sustainability and the achievement of the statutory functions of the Corporation
especially in staff capacity development and improvement in systems and procedures. In
addition, under this component, the project also intended to conduct a number of studies
including; willingness-to-pay and tariff studies; investment planning and
sanitation/environmental studies; financial modeling, customer enumeration,
preparation/updating of assets register; public communication outreach and information
dissemination.
(i)    The project provided a series of capacity building opportunities to OGSWC staff
both locally and internationally. 329 staff (Over 37% of OGSWC staff), including
engineers, laboratory technicians, public relations officers, accounts personnel, and


                                           33
commercial and audit personnel, benefitted from the capacity building. The trainings
were aimed at developing capacity and provide exposure and vital skills to staff for
efficient service delivery.
The following system improvements and studies were also carried out:
(ii)    Preparation of a financial model for forecasting and modelling the long term
financial viability of the utility under different scenarios
(iii) Development of a Monitoring and Evaluation system for the project and utility
operations
(iv)    Customer enumeration to update the customer details
(v)     Improvement in the billing system and Human Resource Management Systems
(vi)    Updating of the asset register
Complement 4: Policy Reform and Institutional Development (Ogun)
Under this Component, Ogun State was supposed to undertake the following activities:
formulation and/or amendment of appropriate legislation, establishment of regulatory
body; public communication outreach and information dissemination; and environmental
regulation.
(i)     The project supported the formulation of the Ogun State Water Supply and
Sanitation Policy which is in its final draft before the Executive Council of the State for
approval. A revised draft bill has also been prepared and submitted to the State
Government for approval. Both the water and sanitation policy and the OGSWC law
promote Private Sector Participation and creation of an independent Regulatory Authority
to regulate both public and private service providers.

Key achievement of the reforms
It was expected that at the end of the project there would be improvement in water supply
reliability; - the production scheme would be restored to installed capacity and capacity
utilisation would be at least 90%. It was also expected that access would increase with an
addition of 23,760 new customers connection. Similarly the financial viability of
OGSWC was expected to improve; OGSWC was to cover at least 90% of its recurrent
costs and the collection efficiency was expected to improve by 20%. Lastly the enabling
environment was expected to improve in order to sustain the results of the reforms and
ensure sustainable service delivery. The table below gives a snapshot of the performance
of OGSWC against the project development objectives




                                            34
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Financial Analysis: The financial analysis conducted at appraisal and as part of the ICR
focuses on a cost-benefit analysis and zeroes in on productive investments financed under
Component 1 (Rehabilitation of Water Supply System). The main objective of the
analysis was to verify whether implementation of project activities would positively
impact the financial viability of water utilities in the three targeted States, taking into
account only related direct costs and benefits. The analysis covers 20 years, including 9
years of project implementation (2005-2013), and11 years of projected costs and benefits
(2014-2024). Results of this analysis in terms of Internal Rates of Return (IRRs) and Net
Present Values (NPVs) at 12 percent discount rate are summarized in Table A3.1 below.

Table A3.1: Results of the financial analysis of NUWSRP
                         Overall Project FinancialViability
                                  ICR                                               PAD
                           IRR          NPV (USD)         IRR                          NPV (USD)
Kaduna                     15%           23,203,000       22%                          19,867,000
Ogun                        7%          (24,764,000)      21%                          16,556,000
      16
Enugu                      13%            5,836,000         -                               -

The level of financial efficiency as measured through IRRs projected at appraisal were
not achieved for Kaduna and Ogun State Water Agencies, although based on the ICR,
Kaduna and Enugu water utilities are considered to have been modestly financially viable
given that their respective IRRs exceed the 12% cost of capital. The difference between
the PAD and ICR financial IRRs for Kaduna and Ogun SWAs is substantial due to the
following factors:(a) cost overruns in Ogun; (b) low increase in billing rates during
implementation (Kaduna: 16%; Ogun 13%); (c) weaker collection rates in Ogun; (d) high
O&M costs compared to revenues; and (e) the substantial difference in PAD and ICR
project’s costs17. The lower financial performance in Ogun State is attributed to: (a) the
lower coverage of O&M costs by revenues (40% compared to 75% and 65% in Kaduna
and Enugu, respectively); (b) lower increase in collection rate (70% compared to 85% in
Kaduna and 80% in Enugu); and (c) a lower rate of water connections (16% in contrast
with the 62% observed in Kaduna and 22% in Enugu).

Economic Analysis: The main objective of the economic analysis was to substantiate the
economic viability of the overall operation predicted during project preparation at States
levels. This was done by taking into consideration direct and indirect costs and benefits,
and converting the financial prices in economic costs through shadow pricing aimed at
eliminating the effects of participating state governments’ interventions and market
distortions. Depreciation charges, expected changes in the general price and direct

16
  The analysis was not conducted for Enugu at appraisal since it was not originally part of the project.
17
  In both the financial and economic analyses, IRR, ERRs and NPVs estimated on the ICR are based on
US$210 million (175% of project appraisal costs). PAD financial and economic indicators were based on
the project’s initial investment amount of US$120 million.



                                                   35
transfers such as taxes, direct subsidies, and credit transactions including loans, principal
repayment, and interest payments were thus excluded from the cost-benefit analysis. Two
main sets of benefit streams were considered: revenue from water supply, and expected
health benefits. On the other hand, several benefits were not quantified or applied in
determining the Economic Rates of Return (ERRs), due to lack of usable data. These
include mainly environmental and employment benefits, which represent returns of
significant value for the project. The total benefits quantified in the cost-benefit analysis
should thus be interpreted as a conservative lower bound estimate. The project’s viability
is based on the ERRs and NPVs of the measurable, incremental benefits and total project
costs using actual investment expenditures from IDA and Government, as well as annual
O&M costs throughout the 20-year period through 2024 at a 12 percent discount rate.

All the assumptions considered during the production of the initial analysis at project
design have been kept unchanged. The benefit streams were estimated under the
following additional assumptions: (i) increase in billing and collection rates observed
would be 40% and 78% respectively from 2014 to 2024; (ii) the average increase in
operating and maintenance costs of 9% observed during the 9-year period of project
implementation would be sustained through 2024; and (iii) The Federal and State
Governments would not provide subsidies to the three SWAs. Table y below summarizes
ERRs and NPVs in the three states and at the national level under the above assumptions:

Table A3.2: Results of the Economic Analysis of NUWSRP
                             Overall Project Economic Viability
                                   ICR                                          PAD
                             ERR               NPV            ERR                      NPV (USD)
                                              (USD)
Kaduna                       23%           70,990,000         25%                       21,854,000
Ogun                         14%            8,697,000         16%                       18,543,000
Enugu                        15%           12,189,000           -                            -

The analysis reveals that actual economic indicators (ERRs) are close to those projected
during appraisal (Table A3.2. If non-quantified environmental and employment benefits
were accounted for, the ERRs for the states would be greater than those projected at
appraisal.

Sensitivity of ERR / NPVto Revenue Fluctuation

A sensitivity analysis was conducted with the aim of identifying the minimum increase in
billing rate required for the project to remain economically viable in all the three states as
measured through a positive NPV and an ERR equal to the 12% cost of capital. The
sensitivity analysis considered that the average increases in collection rates and O&M
costs would remain constant through 2014 (respectively 78% and 9%). The table below
summarizes the results of the project’s ERR and NPV sensitivity to this scenario.




                                             36
Table A3.3: Results of the ERR & NPV Sensitivity Analysis
                                    Sensitivity Analysis
States               Increase Billing         ERR                         NPVs (USD)
                     Rate (BR)
Kaduna               BR = 29.5%               12%                            1,299,157
Ogun                 BR = 37%                 12%                            1,086,505
Enugu                BR = 35%                 12%                             622,246

The Project’s ERRs and NPVs Sensitivity to variation in billing rates reveals that the
minimum increase in billing rates required by the project to remain economically viable
in the three states (ERRs ≥ 12% and NPV > 0) are: 29.5% in Kaduna, 37% in Ogun, and
35% in Enugu.

Summary of Main Assumptions Used in the Economic Analysis of NUWSRP
Assumptions                                                      PAD 2004 ICR 2014
Substantial, and regular, tariff increases are implemented         Yes       No
during project implementation as service improves to
customers
System infrastructure is quickly restored to 90percent of          Yes      Yes
installed capacity, a 20 percent increase in production capacity
is accomplished by year 2010, and there is sufficient energy to
permit the systems to operate on a continuous basis;
All systems achieve at least a 10 percent reduction in leakage;    Yes      Yes

For all three systems, about 50,000 new flat rate customers are        Yes           Yes
added;                                                                              Actual
                                                                                   numbers
                                                                                     were
                                                                                  considered
Billing rates would conservatively increase by 40% in average          No            Yes
from 2014 through 2024;
The 78% collection rates would be sustained in the three states        No            Yes
from 2014 through 2024.
The 9% average increase in operating and maintenance costs             No            Yes
would be sustained through 2014.

Conclusion. The level of financial efficiencies projected at appraisal were not achieved
for Kaduna and Ogun State Water Agencies, although in Kaduna and Enugu, the project
is considered to have modestly improved the financial viability of State Water Utilities as
exemplified by their IRRs slightly above the 12% minimum required rate of return. On
the other hand, the project is considered to be economically viable for all the three States,
although the analysis reveals ERRs somewhat lower but close to those projected during
appraisal (Table A3.2). If non-quantified environmental and employment benefits were
accounted for, the ERRs for the states would be greater than those projected at appraisal.




                                             37
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
           Names                            Title               Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Alex McPhail                Team Leader                       AFTU2 Team Leader
Hassan Kida                 Sanitary Engineer                 AFTU2 Sanitary Engineer
David Henley                Sr. Sanitary Engineer             AFTU2
                                                                    Consultant
                            (Consultant)
Pinki Chaudhuri             Sr. Regulatory Specialist    AFTU2 Regulatory
                            (Consultant)                        Specialist
Wole Afolabi                                             AFTU2 Financial Analyst
                            Financial Analyst (Consultant)
Chau-Ching Shen             Sr. Finance Officer          LOAG2 Finance
Ernestina Attafuah          Sr. Program Assistant        AFTU2 Program Assistant
Edward Olowo-Okere          Sr. Financial Management     AFTFM Financial
                            Specialist                          Management
                                                                Specialist
Adenike Sherifat Mustafa Financial Management Specialist AFTFM Financial
                                                                Management
                                                                Specialist
Bayo Awosemusi           Procurement Specialist          AFTPC Procurement
                                                                Specialist
Comfort Ede              Program Assistant               AFC12 Program Assistant
Serigne Omar Fye         Sr. Environmental Specialist    AFTS 1 Environmental
                                                                Specialist
Sameena Dost             Counsel                         LEGAF Counsel
Eric Haythorne           Senior Counsel                  LEGPS Senior Counsel
Supervision/ICR
                                                                     Environmental
Amos Abu                    Senior Environmental Specialist   AFTN1
                                                                     Safeguards
Ruth Adetola Adeleru       Team Assistant                     AFCW2 Team Assistant
Oluwole Temiloluwa Afolabi Consultant                         AFTME Consultant
Akinrinmola Oyenuga        Senior Financial Management               Financial
                                                              AFTMW
Akinyele                   Specialist                                Management
Macmillan Ikemefule                                                  Senior Operations
                           Senior Operations Officer          AFMLS
Anyanwu                                                              Officer
Mary Asanato-Adiwu         Senior Procurement Specialist      AFTPW Procurement
                                                              AFTWR-
John A. Boyle               Consultant                               Consultant
                                                                HIS
Maya El-Azzazi              Program Assistant                 MNSSU Program Assistant
Jan Franck                  Consultant                        MNSSD Consultant
Saidu Dani Goje             Consultant                        AFTMW Consultant
Esther Illouz Loening       Infrastructure Specialist         GPOBA Infrastructure


                                             38
                                                                   Specialist
Jan G. Janssens            Consultant                        WBIUR Consultant
                           Lead Water and Sanitation
Hassan Madu Kida                                             AFTU2 Task Team Leader
                           Specialist
                           Lead Water and Sanitation
Alexander A. McPhail                                         MNSWA Task Team Leader
                           Specialist
Paul D. Mitchell           Consultant                        EASPS Consultant
Masud Mozammel             Senior Communications Officer     ECROC Communications
Fumiko Nagano              Consultant                        ECROC Consultant
                           Senior Social Development               Social
Chukwudi H. Okafor                                           AFTCS
                           Specialist                              Development
                                                                   Environmental
Africa Eshogba Olojoba     Senior Environmental Specialist   MNSEE
                                                                   Safeguards
                                                                   Senior Operations
Adetunji A. Oredipe        Senior Operations Officer         AFCW2
                                                                   Officer
Lars A. V. Rasmusson       Consultant                        AFTG1 Consultant
Obadiah Tohomdet           Senior Communications Officer     AFRSC Communications
                                                                   Senior Program
Armele Vilceus             Senior Program Assistant          LCC3C
                                                                   Assistant
Mary Oluseyi Zackius-Shittu Human Resources Associate        HRSEP Human Resources




                                           39
(b) Staff Time and Cost


                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY01                                     19.49                      153.48
FY02                                     13.54                      174.37
FY03                                     33.23                      179.19
FY04                                     40.50                      317.64
                          Total:        106.76                      824.68

Supervision/ICR
FY05                                      35.73                      207.17
FY06                                      46.62                      191.73
FY07                                      38.42                      123.76
FY08                                      32.72                       95.41
FY09                                      36.30                      139.85
FY10                                      17.97                       77.53
FY11                                      19.16                      102.76
FY12                                      19.97                      104.66
FY13                                      20.43                       97.20
FY14                                      15.21                       86.67
Total:                                   282.53                    1,226.74




                                       40
    Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

    Objectives of the Beneficiary Impact Assessment: The objective of the Beneficiary
    Impact Assessment was to determine the extent to which the Project achieved its intended
    impact from the beneficiaries in the localities where it was implemented.

    Methodology: The methodology employed involved interviews of water utility officials,
    observation of facilities and locations, and administration of survey questionnaire to
    businesses, institutions, and residents of the various locations.

    The major findings are as follows:

    Summary of Key Findings for Ogun State

   Categories of Customers: The Water Agency has 4 basic categories of customers,
    namely: Commercial, Institution, Public Stand-Alone and Residential. Of the 4 categories,
    residential customers make up 64.4%, Commercial 25.7%, Public Stand- Alone pipes
    6.5%, and institutions 3.4%.

   Supply of Water from the Water Agency: 51% of the Respondents get water supply
    from the Ogun State Water Corporation while 49% do not get water supply from
    OGSWC.

   Connection to the Corporation: Of the 51% respondents that get water supply from
    OGSWC, 46% were connected/ reconnected during project intervention; 28% do not
    know when their facilities were connected; while 26% were connected before the project
    intervention.

   Satisfaction with Water Supply: 15% of the respondents were very satisfied with the
    water supplied, 39% were satisfied; 16% were neutral; 17% responded they were
    dissatisfied; while 13% of the respondents said they were very dissatisfied.

   Reason for Satisfaction: most of the respondents were satisfied because of good clean
    water, representing 40.26%; 18.60% of the respondents said they were satisfied due to
    constant supply; 15.54% were satisfied due to High Pressure; 14% were satisfied due to
    High Water Quality, while 11.60% gave other reasons for satisfaction.

   Reasons for Dissatisfaction: 41.37% of the respondents in Ogun State are dissatisfied
    due to Frequent Interruptions of Supply; 10.71% were dissatisfied because of low
    pressure; 8.33% were dissatisfied due to poor water quality; 12.80% were dissatisfied due
    to seasonal interruption of water supply; 22.62% were dissatisfied due to other reasons
    while 4.17% do not know reasons for their dissatisfaction.

   Consistency of Water Supply: about 50% of the respondents said that water supply is
    constant, while the other 50% said that water supply is not constant.



                                               41
   Supply interruption: 42.94% of the respondents said interruption in water supply is a
    daily occurrence; 20.72% said interruptions occur monthly and 36.35% responded that
    interruptions occur weekly.

   Year of Meter installation: 24.13% of the respondents had their meters installed in the
    course of the project while 7.34% responded before 2004; and 68.53% are yet to have
    their meters installed.

   Frequency of Meter Reading: 1.65% of the respondents said that their meters were read
    2 times per month; 16.46% others responded once a Month; 4.94% once per quarter; and
    76.95% said rarely if at all.

   Frequency of Reception of Bills: 6.34% of the respondents get their bills at the
    beginning of the month; 15.75% at the middle; 35.79% at the end; while 42.12% do not
    get their bills.

   Frequency of Payment of Bills: 36.97% of the respondents pay their bills regularly;
    19.76% sometimes pay; while 43.27% do not pay their bills.

   Service Improvement (Quality of Water Supplied): 21.81% of the respondents
    reported impressive or total change; 38.80% good improvement; 22.97% some
    improvement; 11.58% no improvement; while 4.83% reported regression in the quality of
    water supply.

   Service Improvement (Pressure of Water Supplied): 31.75% of the respondents
    reported impressive or total change; 26.79% good improvement; 20.83% some
    improvement; 13.89% no improvement; while 6.75% reported regression in the quality of
    water supply.

    Summary of Findings for Kaduna State

   Categories of Customers: The water agency has 4 basic categories of customers, namely,
    Commercial, Institution, Public Stand-Alone and Residential. Of the 4 categories, there
    are many more residential customers (74.45%); Commercial (14.90%); followed by
    Public Stand-Alone pipes (6.01%); then institutions (4.64%) with the least customers are
    the Institutions.

   Supply of Water from the Water Board/ Corporation: 71.41% of the Respondents get
    water supply from the Kaduna State Water Board while 28.59% do not get water supply
    from Kaduna State Water Board.

   Connection to the Corporation: 46.74% of the respondents in Kaduna State were
    connected/ reconnected during project intervention; 18.04% do not know when their
    facilities were connected; while 35.22% were connected before the project intervention.




                                              42
   Satisfaction with Water Supply: 8.80% of the respondents in Kaduna state were very
    satisfied with the water supplied, 50.64% were satisfied; 19.64% were neutral; 13.52%
    responded they were dissatisfied; while 7.40% of the respondents said they were very
    dissatisfied.

   Reason for Satisfaction: 52.67% of respondents in Kaduna State were satisfied because
    of good clean water, representing; 37.54% of the respondents said they were satisfied due
    to constant supply; 8.46% were satisfied due to High Pressure; while 1.34% gave other
    reasons for satisfaction.

   Reasons for Dissatisfaction: 43.98% of the respondents in Kaduna State are dissatisfied
    due to Frequent Interruptions of Supply; 13.51% were dissatisfied because of low
    pressure; 12.78% were dissatisfied due to poor water quality; 18.43% were dissatisfied
    due to seasonal interruption of water supply; 7.62% were dissatisfied due to other reasons
    while 3.69% do not know reasons for their dissatisfaction.

   Consistency of Water Supply: 42.26% of the respondents said that water supply is
    constant, while the other 57.74% said that water supply is not constant.

   Supply interruption: 43.79% of the respondents said interruption in water supply is a
    daily occurrence; 9.54% said interruptions occur monthly and 45.66% responded that
    interruptions occur weekly.

   When was Meter installed: 13.58% of the respondents had their meters installed in the
    course of the project while 7.22% responded before 2004; and 79.59% are yet to have
    their meters installed.

   Frequency of Meter Reading: 49.32% of the respondents said that their meters were
    read 2 times per month; 30.41% others responded once a Month; 5.41% once per quarter;
    and 14.86% responded rarely if at all.

   Frequency of Reception of Bills: 19.05% of the respondents get their bills at the
    beginning of the month; 21.13% at the middle; 52.54% at the end; while 7.27% do not
    get their bills.

   Frequency of Payment of Bills: 68.84% of the respondents pay their bills regularly;
    22.60% sometimes pay; while 8.22% do not pay their bills.

   Service Improvement (Quality of Water Supplied): 18.22% of the respondents
    reported impressive or total change; 39.19% good improvement; 28.10% some
    improvement; 12.62% no improvement; while 1.87% reported regression in the quality of
    water supply.




                                               43
    Summary of Findings for Enugu State

   Categories of Customers: The water agency has 4 basic categories of customers, namely,
    Commercial, Institution, Public Stand-Alone and Residential. Of the 4 categories, there
    are many more residential customers (69.48%); Commercial (22.77%); followed by
    Public Stand-Alone pipes (5.16%); while institutions (2.58%) with the least customers
    are the Institutions.

   Water Supply from Water Board/ Corporation: 62.44% of the Respondents get water
    supply from the Enugu State Water Corporation while 37.56% do not get water supply
    from Enugu State Water Corporation.

   Connection to the Corporation: 62.26% of the respondents in Enugu State were
    connected/ reconnected during project intervention; 25.66% do not know when their
    facilities were connected; while 12.08% were connected before the project intervention.

   Satisfaction with Water Supply: 15.67% of the respondents in Enugu state were very
    satisfied with the water supplied, 48.88% were satisfied; 9.33% were neutral; 4.85%
    responded they were dissatisfied; while 21.27% of the respondents said they were very
    dissatisfied.

   Reason for Satisfaction: 39.38% of respondents in Enugu State were satisfied because
    of good clean water, representing; 47.15% of the respondents said they were satisfied due
    to constant supply; 6.22% were satisfied due to High Pressure; while 1.04% gave other
    reasons for satisfaction.

   Reasons for Dissatisfaction: 43.88% of the respondents in Enugu State are dissatisfied
    due to frequent interruptions of Supply; 10.20% were dissatisfied because of low
    pressure; 7.14% were dissatisfied due to poor water quality; 12.24% were dissatisfied due
    to seasonal interruption of water supply; 17.35% were dissatisfied due to other reasons
    while 9.18% do not know reasons for their dissatisfaction.

   Consistency of Water Supply: 63.49% of the respondents said that water supply is
    constant, while the other 36.51% said that water supply is not constant.

   When was Meter installed: 13.18% of the respondents had their meters installed in the
    course of the project while 6.35% responded before 2004; and 79.76% are yet to have
    their meters installed.

   Frequency of Meter Reading: 3.30% of the respondents said that their meters were read
    2 times per month; 15.38% others responded once a Month; 7.69% once per quarter; and
    73.63% said rarely if at all.

   Frequency of Reception of Bills: most of the respondents get their bills at the end of the
    month, this is represents 40.32%; 14.11% get theirs at the middle of the month; 12.10%
    get theirs at the beginning of the month; while 33.47% do not get their bills at all.


                                               44
   Frequency of Payment of Bills: 69.69% of Enugu State Water Board customers pay
    their bills regularly; 7.48% pays their sometimes; while 22.83% do not pay their bills.

    Conclusion

    Based on the result of the Beneficiary Assessment findings, the impact of the project is
    yet to be fully felt. Although much work was done to improve on the infrastructures for
    water production and distribution, unavailability of power to run the equipment is a major
    setback for the project. The customers who are getting the water supply attested to the
    fact that the service they get from the Water Agencies is now impressive and greatly
    improved in terms of quality, quantity, regularity and pressure. This is so for customers
    residing in the main urban areas (State Capitals). This is not the case for those living at
    peri‐urban areas. There is a large number of potential customers that are yet to be
    connected to the water supply from the Water Agencies. Metering is still at very low
    levels.




                                                45
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A final Stakeholder Workshop was not conducted at the end of the project. Rather, data
on the project’s impact on various stakeholders was collected through the Beneficiary
Survey. The findings of this survey are summarized in Annex 5, and details included in a
separate Beneficiary Impact Study prepared by an independent consultant on behalf of
the Borrower.




                                          46
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

A summary of the Borrower’s ICR is presented below. The full report is available in the
project files.

Introduction

The National Urban Water Sector Reform Project (NUWSRP) was a comprehensive 8 years
project intervention. It was geared towards reforming the Urban Water Sector in Nigeria.
Implementation took place across 3 States (Kaduna, Ogun and Enugu) with the FMWR. The
main objective of the project, was improving water supply in selected urban areas of Nigeria
through optimal investment, management and delivery of water services and eventually with
public-private partnership (PPP) collaboration. The project was coordinated by the PCU
under the FMWR and implemented mainly by the State Water Authorities.

The Project’s principal development outcomes are: (i) improved reliability and financial
viability of selected urban water utilities; and (ii) increased access to piped water networks in
selected urban areas.

The project had four components which were chosen based on (i) professional engineering
assessment of the water system conditions in the three States (ii) public opinion polls carried
out during preparation that signaled enhanced levels of service as a pre-requisite to putting in
place adequate tariffs and (iii) expert opinion that a significant private sector intervention was
faster and most secure way of restoring the State water authorities to financial sustainability.
The components are:

(i) Rehabilitation of water supply system
(ii) Public-Private Partnership Development
(iii) Capacity Building & Project Management
(iv) Policy Reform & Institutional Development

Overall, the project outcome and achievement of objective were Satisfactory. The project
achieved notable results towards its development objective.

The achievements on the implementation of the federal component are as follows:

a) Execution of some consultancy contracts which led to the establishment of National
frameworks under the project.
b) The completion of rehabilitation work on Oyan dam , which is a federal dam that provides
raw water for Ogun and Lagos water supply systems;
c) Five stakeholders’ workshops and many project review workshops have been held;
d) Water supply and Sanitation Baseline database has been established for all the 774 Local
government Councils in the 36 States and FCT of Nigeria;
e) Trainings and Seminars on policy, Procurement, Financial Management, project
Management, Skills Development, Monitoring & Evaluation, Human Resources, Regulation
and Legislation.




                                               47
    Component 1: The Rehabilitation and Network Expansion
    Thirteen (13) water works were rehabilitated, completed, tested and in operation. On average,
    all the plants can now operate at 85% efficiency. Production has increased from an average
    baseline of 250m3/year to more than 8650m3/year (i.e. when power supply has improved). A
    total of 492.5 km pipe line were replaced ranging from 150mm to 450 mm diameter made of
    ductile iron and PVC pipes while 284km of new pipe has been laid.

    Component 2: The Public –Private Partnership Development (PPP)
    The PPP management contract for Kaduna and Zaria water works was signed in 2008 with
    ORTECH Nig. Ltd. On the downstream side, the board developed a Delegated Management
    Program in 2012. Ogun State Water Corporation, adopted the Ugandan model for PPP but
    remarkable progress has not been made due to the decrease in revenue. In Enugu, there is a
    lot of progress with the revenue circle management and the State Government is also
    considering the concession of the water utilities in the towns of Enugu and Nsukka5.

    Component 3: Capacity Building and Project Management
    There has been significant improvement in the management of water utilities as a result of
    the trainings and study tours conducted. These improvements are particularly in the areas of
    financial management, procurement as well as the O&M of the waters supply system.

    Component 4: Policy Reform and Institutional Development
    There were delays in getting the State’s Laws and Policy finalized due to political issues . All
    States now have their policies signed. The Laws are not in place yet. The average target value
    at project end for increase in water delivered through the existing and extended network was
    760mm3/ year. The project achieved 865mm3/ year at the end of the project.

    Challenges Faced

    Power has remained a major challenge on the project. Power generating sets were procured in
    all the project, as a means of alleviating this challenge. However, cost of running the
    generators on diesel have increased cost of production without marginal increase in tariff
    charged. Other challenges in participating States include:

    Enugu State
   No comprehensive enumeration for customers
   Lapses on the part of the management,
   No much investment on collection,
   Customer sensitization has not be effectives,
   Information engineering is not so solid,
   There’s needs for fresh and younger people to be employed to come and do much of the
    marketing,
   Meter by pass,
   Illegal connection,
   Profit sharing by drivers,
   Tariff structure is low and cannot recover cost,
   Change of banks



                                                  48
    Kaduna State
   Inefficient network connection as in the case of Saminaka and kafanchan.
   Difficulties of the district in ascertaining the actual volume of water produced per day as
    residents connect directly to the main inlet pipe before water gets to the overhead tank for
    distribution as is the case in Kafanchan.
   No comprehensive enumeration for customers.
   Illegal connections
   Inadequate office facilities as it is in Samaru, Kafanchan and Kaduna City.
   Limited number of operational vehicles
   Delay in release of in fund due to bureaucracy.
   Lack of meters in over 80% of the facilities.
   Inadequate staff capacity both in terms of training and physical strength.

    Ogun State
   Billing system is still manually done.
   Delay in release of in fund due to bureaucracy.
   changes in government and management
   Lack of meters in over 80% of the facilities.
   Illegal connections
   Lack of continuity
   Stoppage of the Independent Power Projects –
   Unavailability of working tool – no excavator
   Inadequate staff capacity both in terms of training and physical strength.

    Lessons Learnt

   Staffing was a key issue throughout the project. There was a lot of political interference in
    the project at the State utility level. All the States were affected by this but Enugu and Ogun
    were more adversely affected. The DCA should contain clauses of conditionality that key
    project personnel be selected competitively and should not be changed on the project except
    on issues of fraud.

   For sustainability of the project and to consolidate the gains of the project, project staff can
    be locally sourced from the SWAs and adequate training be given on the project.

   In some of the participating States, there were issues as regards the effectiveness of training
    received. Training plans should be properly followed through by the Administrative or
    Human Resource Unit. Heavy investment in the infrastructural rehabilitation should be
    accompanied with adequate capacity building.

   The time taken to for Engineering Designs could have been expended on actual
    implementation. Engineering Design before actual project implementation commences
    should be emphasized.



                                                   49
   Clear program timeline/ schedule should be developed and adhered to for any future
    intervention.

   Thorough studies should be ensured before project implementation. If possible the studies
    should be driven by the FPIU, so as to reduce biases in data collected.

   Proper planning is key to achieving Project Development Objective. It should include; an in-
    depth feasibility followed by a detailed design, then the bill of quantity that will guide
    tendering procedure.




                                                 50
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not applicable.




                                    51
   Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 27884-GH, April 5, 2004.

2. Development Credit Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria and IDA,
   Credit Number 3924 UNI, dated September 10, 2004

3. Financing Agreement between Federal Republic of Nigeria and IDA, Credit Number
   4784-NG, dated November 20, 2010.

4. Project Papers on Restructuring.

5. DCA Amendment letters

6. Project Supervision Aides-Memoires

7. Project Implementation Status and Results Reports.

8. Project Financial Reports

9. Project Procurement Plans

10. Beneficiary Impact Study Report for the 1st National Urban Water Sector Reform Project.

11. Borrower Implementation Completion Report for the 1st National Urban Water Sector
    Reform Project.

12. Report of the Financial Management Special Audit of the 1st NUWSRP in Ogun, Enugu,
    Kaduna State Water Agencies and the FPIU, Federal Ministry of Water Resources,
    March 2014.




                                              52
MAP IBRD 40778




                 53
                 This map was produced by                                                   5°E                                                                                                      10°E                                                                                               15°E
                 the Map Design Unit of The
                 World Bank. The boundaries,
                 colors, denominations and        GSDPM
                 any other information shown      Map Design Unit
                                                                                                                                                                         N I G E R
                 on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                      SOKOTO                                                                                                                                                                                     e          Lake Chad




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ob
                 the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Y
                 Group, any judgment on the
                 legal status of any territory,                                                     Sokoto                                                 Katsina
                 or any endorsement or                                                                                                                                                                                                          Yobe
                 acceptance of such                                        m   a
                 boundaries.                                            Ri                                              So
                                                                                                                                                  KATSINA




                                                                                                                         ko
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ia
                                                             Birnin                                                                                                                               dej                                     a




                                                                                                                           to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      n
                                                                                                                                                                                                Ha                                 Ga
                                                             Kebbi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                aar
                                                                                                                             Gusau
                BURKINA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           gu
                                                                                                                                                                                          JIGA WA




                                                                                                                                                                                                               Jam


                                                                                                                                                                                                                         du
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         YOBE
                 FASO




                                                                                                                                                                     Kano                                                                                                    Maiduguri




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ma
                                                                                                       ZAMFARA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ko
                                                                                                                                                                                            Dutse
                                                               Ni g
                                                                   er                                                                                                   K A NO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Damaturu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BORNO                               CHAD
                                                                    KEBBI                                                                                                                                                    ngola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Go




                                                                                                                                                                                             Bunga
                                                                                                                                                     KADUNA
                                                                                                                                                        Kaduna                            BAUCH I                       GOMBE
                        BENIN                                  Kainji
                                                                                                                                                                                              G
                                                                                                                                                                                           Bauchi
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ubi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Gombe
                                                              Reservoir
                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                                  dun
                10°N                                                                                                            Ka                                                                                                                                                                                       10°N
                                                                                            NIGER                                                                                   Jos
                                                                                                                                      Minna




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MAW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ue                               Yola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  en
                                                                                                                                                                                           P LA TEA U




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              B
                                                                                                   Nige
                                                                                                        r                                              ABUJA                                                                  Jalingo
                                                                                                                                             FEDERAL
                                                                         KWARA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ADA
                                                                                                                                             CAPITAL
                                                                                   Ilorin                                                   TERRITORY                       Lafia
                                                  O Y O                                                                                               NA SA R A WA                                                          ab




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ta
                                                                                                                                                        Benue                                                                 a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         r
                                                                    Oshogbo                       EKITI
                                                                                                                                            Lokoja               Makurdi                                   TARABA                                                                                              NIGERIA
                                                                                                   Ado-Ekiti
                                                      Ibadan            OSUN                                                     KOGI                                      BENUE
                                     Abeokuta                                                      Akure                                                                                                                                               Chappal Waddi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (2,419 m )

                                                  OGUN                             O ND O
                                                                                                                 E D O                               ENUGU
                                                      L A GOS                                                                                            Enugu Abakaliki
                                                                                                                                      ANAM




                                                  Lagos                                            Benin                                       Awka                                                                                                                                                     15°E

                                                                                                     City                    Asaba                          EBONYI
                                                                                                                                            BRA




                                                                                                                                                                       CROSS                                                                                                                  NIGERIA
                                                                                                                                  r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          URBAN WATER
                                                                                                                              Nige




                                                                                                                                             Owerri      Umuahia       RIVER
                                                                                                            DELTA
                                                                                                                                             IMO                                                               CAMEROON                                                                  SUPPLY PROJECT
                5°N
                                                                                                                 Yenogoa
                                                                                                                                 RIVERS ABIA                     Uyo     Calabar                                                                                       5°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT STATES
                                                                                                                                                          AKWA-
                                      Gulf of Guinea
                                                                                                            BAYELSA                   Port
                                                                                                                                                          IBOM                                                                                                                                CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                            Ni                    Harcourt
                                                                                                                 ger                                                                                                                                                                          STATE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                       River Delta                                                                   0         50           100       150           200 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL
FEBRUARY 2014




                                                                                                                                                                                                     0                 50                     100          150 Miles                          STATE BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 40778
                                                                                                                                                              Bioko I.
                                                                                                                                                        (EQ. GUINEA)                                                                                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                        5°E                                                                                                          10°E
