 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14660

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 06/26/2015

               Country: Nigeria
             Project ID: P071075                                                    Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: National Urban Water          Project Costs (US$M):                  140.00              202.40
                         Sector Reform Project
                         1
  L/C Number:            C3924                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                    120.00              200.00
      Sector Board:      Water                        Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                             Board Approval Date :                                    06/15/2004
                                                              Closing Date:              09/30/2010           09/30/2013
          Sector(s):       Water supply (93%); Central government administration (5%); Sub-national government
                           administration (2%)
          Theme(s):        Urban services and housing for the poor (33% - P); Infrastructure services for private sector
                           development (33% - P); Other urban development (17% - S); Regulation and competition
                           policy (17% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Elaine Wee-Ling Ooi        Soniya Carvalho         Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
  The project development objectives as articulated in the original financing agreement (pg 25), and PAD (pg 4) were
the same: to (i) increase access to piped water networks in selected urban areas; and (ii) improve reliability and
financial viability of selected urban water utilities, in Kaduna, Kano, and Ogun States

PAD May 2004: “The Project’s principal development outcomes are: (i) improved reliability and financial viability of
selected urban water utilities; and (ii) increased access to piped water networks in selected urban areas.

In November 2010 the project was restructured (Restructured Financing Agreement, pg 5). The project objectives
were revised to reflect Kano State’s dropping out of the project and the substitution by Enugu State. The objectives of
the Project became "to: (i) increase access to piped water networks in selected urban areas; and (ii) improve reliability
and financial viability of selected urban water utilities, in Kaduna, Ogun, and Enugu States.”
The project objectives and components were not substantially revised over the course of the project. A number of
target indicators were not defined at entry but were defined during the course of the project and formalized during
restructuring.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
The project components were not described with great detail in either the PAD or ICR.

Component 1: Rehabilitation and Network Expansion (US$105.5M Appraisal; $149.4M Actual):
(a) rehabilitation of water production infrastructure to restore water systems to operate at installed capacity;
This target was increased from 8 to 13 systems during restructuring.
(b) supply and installation of production and zonal meters, and metering of major customers
(c) safety enhancements of dams located within the project states
(d) distribution system expansion once PPP contracts were in place or when the relevant state water authorities
(SWA) demonstrated a high degree of operational capacity and efficiency, as well as financial autonomy
(e) preparation of a follow on project.

Component 2: Public-Private Partnerships (PPP) (US$16.5MAppraisal; $3.6M Actual)
The target for this component was increased from 2 to 5 during restructuring. Additional funds were earmarked for this
component during the restructuring.

Component 3: Capacity Building and Project Management (US$9.85M Appraisal; $28.5M Actual)
(a) Project management
(b) Stakeholder communication
(c) Develop institutional capacity of the State Water Agencies (SWA) via training in financial management,
procurement, design, contract, manage and oversee PPPs, Study tours to other African PPP models
(d) Studies on "willingness-to-pay'; "tariffs"; investment planning; sanitation/environmental; financial modeling;
customer enumeration; asset enumeration/updating; and public communication

Component 4: Institutional Development and Support for Policy Reform (US$5.3M Appraisal; $2.5M Actual)
(a) National low-income household service strategy
(b) State Water Regulatory Authorities and training of staff
(c) Support to develop legal framework/law for SWAs to operate as autonomous entities
(d) Finalize National Water Policy


 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
   In 2010 SDR 50.5M (USD $80M) of additional financing was approved at a level 1 restructuring. There was no
change in objectives or targets and the project was extended by 24 months to close on 09/30/2012. Later, a lower
level restructuring took place in 2012 and extended the project by another 12 months to close on 09/30/2013.

 An unexpected increase in the prices of key infrastructure components was cited as the primary need for additional
funds in 2010. Due to the poor state of existing infrastructure, the project found that the extent of rehabilitation of the
piped network to be done was far greater than anticipated. The project had also to overcome or win over commitment
for the reforms, PPP and a new paradigm for water service delivery. This meant substantially more investments in
outreach and generating of ownership. As such the civil works and stakeholder outreach and capacity building of the
SWAs absorbed more funds than originally planned.

The restructuring allowed more IDA funds for the project. It also allowed for reduced counterpart financing to only 5%
of total project costs. The change was retroactive to September 2005. In total, IDA provided USD $200M and the
borrowers (federal and states combined) contributed USD $2.4M. The borrower amount is significantly less than the
USD $20M estimated at project appraisal.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Nigeria is a comparatively wealthy African country that struggles with a large and growing population (the largest in
Africa), faster than planned urbanization, and a culture that has not previously focused on preventive maintenance.
These factors have resulted in aging and poorly maintained public water systems that are insufficient to meet the
needs of their target populations. In Nigeria, water resources are managed at both the federal, state, and, in some
areas, especially rural areas, local level. This project is focused on improving the State Water Authorities (SWA) in
three areas and continued improvement to the federal water management agency which has been the focus of
several prior Bank projects. The ICR states that, prior to the project, the percent of the population with access to safe
water is estimated to be 50% of the urban population and 20% of the peri-urban population. Existing water facilities
were not far from operating at their planned capacity, require rehabilitation, and suffer from unreliable power supplies.
Illegal connections and unmetered connections, coupled with insufficient cost recovery (in part caused by lack of
autonomy to set higher rates and lack of political will to raise fees), have resulted in operating losses and dependency
on state subsidies. The project also supported the development of good governance mechanisms, made provisions
for the poor, financial autonomy and sustainability of the utilities, to break their dependence on the public coffers.
The project has drawn on a substantial amount of experience with the water sector in both Nigeria and other countries
to appropriately limit the project scope, improve service and fiscal performance, and help Nigeria meet its Millennium
Development Goal related to access to safe water supply. The project is designed to assist the government of Nigeria
in separating service operation from ownership and investment by promoting private sector participation (PSP). PSP
will allow the water sector to benefit from private funding investments while increasing accountability for services.

The project is consistent with the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy 2010-2013, the government of Nigeria’s
National Transformation Agenda 2011-2015, and Millennium Development Goals. The project goals (increased
access, reliability, and fiscal stability) were relevant at the time of project appraisal and remain so at project close.
Relevance of objectives is High.

 b. Relevance of Design:
The project supported the correct activities in fostering the development of water infrastructure, the development of
human capital, and development of an enabling environment for sector reforms. The water supply situation in Nigeria,
with its federalist structure, needed appropriate incentives to foster decentralization and autonomy for the utilities. For
example, as a survey prior to the PAD had indicated that increases in service quality would need to be made prior to
an increase in tariffs, the project planned for this and focused on rehabilitation and repair of existing water treatment
systems prior to expansion. Furthermore, as expansion is often politically desired, incentives were built into the project
to facilitate achievement of the key financial viability targets and increased water authority autonomy prior to
expansion of existing water systems.

Results Framework:
The project had clearly defined objectives and the causal links between project inputs to intended outcomes were
clear and logical. The framework reflected project priorities whereby public outreach and dialogue for reforms were
supported by staff training, analytical studies and study tours. And these complemented the civil works. While not
specifically included in the framework, the project did discuss (elsewhere) the risks of not achieving full water
production and distribution capability, due to the lack of reliable electricity (power) supply. The project had
contingency measures (operate own generators) which could have also been included in the framework for a more
complete picture. The framework also provided valid uses for the information/data to be collected - - they included
both reporting and project improvement/management purposes
Relevance of design is Substantial.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

(1) Increased Access to Piped Water

Outputs and Outcomes

    Two hundred and eighty four km of water pipes were added to the network, while 492 km of the existing
     distribution lines were rehabilitated (see below PDO #2)
    As a result, more than 70,800 new households became registered users/customers. This exceeded the target of
     50,000 new households. Another 208,228 households had their water connections rehabilitated/ restored to
     working level (target was 250,000)
    Water supply to all 3 states increased, with water production capacity reaching 865 cu.m/year (see below PDO
     #2)
    The project assisted the government of Nigeria to adopt a national strategy to increase low income household
     connections. The ICR states that States are implementing the strategy; but no further details about the strategy
     was provided.
    At project close, an estimated 5 million people either had piped water for the first time or had improved access.
     According to the project team, many existing household connections were in such bad shape that there was
     hardly piped water delivered, prior to the project. The 5 million estimate included new as well as existing
     customers.

Overall achievement of Increased Access is rated as Substantial

(2) Improved Reliability of State Water Utilities (SWU)

Outputs

     Water Production:
    A total of 13 water treatment plants were rehabilitated to function at 90% of designed capacity ( 4 schemes in
     Enugu, 8 schemes in Kaguna, and 6 schemes in Ogun). In Ogun additional intake structures were built.
    As a result water production increased by more than 3 fold, from an average of 250 million cu.m/year to 865
     cu.m/yr. The plants are generally operating at 85% capacity due to unreliability of power supply in Nigeria. When
     power is down, standby on-site generators are used to operate the plants.

     Water Distribution:
    492 km of the distribution networks were rehabilitated.
    Network connections to 208,228 households (target was 250,000 households) were upgraded/restored.

    Support for SWA Human Resources and Operations and Maintenance:
   The SWAs were supported with additional office equipment and vehicles. Staff were trained in procurement, and
    project management to improve performance.
  The Human Resource Management Systems in Ogun and Kaduna were updated. According to the borrower (ICR
    page 48) " management of water utilities has improved significantly due to the trainings and study tours.
    Improvements particularly in the areas of financial management, procurement, and operation and maintenance,
    were noted.”
Outcomes:

    Water supply availability has increased substantially due to enhanced water production (3 times more than
     before), and upgraded distribution capacity (see above). The revised project target of 80% increase in availability
     at utility level was therefore met. (IEG notes that the original project target of 20% increase to be measured at the
     end user level is less relevant. Measurement is more appropriately taken at the point of water exiting from the
     bulk meter at the water production facilities).

    The project's investments have improved system design, network infrastructure and staff skills at the SWAs,
     These have led to improved water availability, which is a good proxy for service reliability. The Beneficiary
     Impact Assessment Survey also reported that quality and reliability of services have improved overall with
     respect to water availability, decreased service disruptions, and water pressure.
    IEG notes that reliability of services, in the long term, will also depend on the financial and operational viability of
     the SWUs, and their provisions for O&M.

In the near term, improvement in service reliability is rated as Substantial.


(3) Improved Financial Viability

Outputs

    The National Water Policy (which provided for enhanced water access by the poor) was drafted and adopted.
     The Law establishing the State Water Regulatory Agencies was drafted but awaits state approval after which
     SWAs will have autonomy and the authority to set tariffs.
    Study tours were completed (for SWA personnel, relevant officials and state politicians) to other African states
     with functioning PPP systems. This has helped the SWAs and local politicians better understand the challenges
     ahead to achieve financial independence and sustainability.
    Studies were completed- and SWA staff trained- on performance based contracting, PPP management,
     development of financial models, assets inventory, customer enumerations, O&M etc. The project team reported
     that the high actual costs ($28.5 million) of component 3 (Capacity Building and Project Management) were due
     to the numbers involved in the study tours, studies etc.
    Ultimately only 2 out of an anticipated 5 PPPs were formed (Kaduna and Ogun). In Ogun, this took the form of
     "Internally Delegated Management Contracts (OGIDAMC) between the State Government with its nine regions,
     based on practices in Uganda. While not true PPPs these contracts would achieve the same result by creating a
     firewall between the purchaser and the provider of services. The OGIDAMC had performance goals, and
     emphasized operational autonomy, and the use of incentives and good M&E data to enhance utility performance
     and financial sustainability. Enugu State also began contracting with a private company to supply, install, and
     maintain pre-paid water meters, instead of performing those functions inhouse.

Outcomes

    The SWAs now have financial models/toolkits to help them forecast financial viability under different scenarios.
     The models are still limited by the assumptions and the quality of the data available (eg. enumeration of customer
     base, metering to measure actual consumption), but the project has helped equip the States with the needed
        skills and tools to plan for financial viability.

       Improved billing systems were established in all three States, and Enugu has been equipped with a computerized
        billing system. The assets registries in Ogun and Kaduna were updated. These have contributed to improving
        billing and collection by the SWAs.

       The political economy has improved but remains an impediment. Pending the adoption of the Law on State Water
        Regulatory Agencies, the SWAs cannot effectively raise tariffs, or suspend service to delinquent accounts (many
        of which are government agencies). Moreover about 80% of facilities in Ogun and Kaduna lack meters, and
        there are illegal connections and bypassing of meters. Enugu State has set up a mobile Water Court, but the
        appropriateness of the strategy has yet to be determined.

       Collection efficiency has improved across all three SWAs. Averaging at 78% it is a little shy of the 80% target
        established during the restructuring. Ogun State was the lowest performer with a 70% collection efficiency.

       Revenue collection has improved quite substantially in all 3 states, but tariffs are too low to support recurrent
        costs. The revenue generated did not meet the targeted 100 % costs for operations and maintenance. Ogun,
        Kaduna and Enugu achieved 40%, 75% and 65% respectively of their O&M costs.

       The project's cost recovery efforts, resulted in an increased annual cash flow of 70 million Naria for each state.
        This is a substantial increase, but is below the 120 million Naria target.

       At project end, the water authorities remain dependent on State funds. Achievement of Financial Viability is rated
        as Modest.
.

 5. Efficiency:
   At appraisal it was estimated that the economic NPV and IRR for the project would be 25% for Kaduna and 16% for
Ogun. This was based on the project closing in 2010 and spending only $120 million. It also assumed that there
would be regular and substantial tariff increases being implemented in all states; that systems would be functioning at
near 90% capacity, and that 50,000 new customers would be added. The PAD did not indicate that the health
benefits would be included in the economic IRR estimates -- it indicated that only the effect of taxes would be included
in the calculations.
The PAD also showed the importance of tariff increases. Its sensitivity analysis calculation, found that without tariff
increases, the economic IRR for Kaduna would be 14% and 0% for Ogun.

At ICR, some of the assumptions were no longer valid. Due to slower than hoped for pace of reforms, there was no
significant, nor regular, tariff increases. Instead the ICR used a different sensitivity analysis which focused on the
project's projected ability to increase billing and collections, and assumed that O&M costs would not increase beyond
9% each year. The ICR also included the quantification of health benefits into its ERR, and by this approach, arrived
at Kaduna and Ogun's ERR as 23% and 14% respectively.

The PAD and ICR approach are not comparable. Clearly the importance of tariff increases are central to the project's
financial viability and returns on investment. Since the ICR did not include its quantification of health benefits and
assumptions therein, the financial IRR would be more appropriate a gauge of project efficiency. This was estimated as
15% and 7% for Kaduna and Ogun. The associated NPV were $23 million and minus $25 million respectively, with a
discount rate of 12 percent. The reasons for the modest numbers were the lower collection rates than anticipated, the
low tariffs, and substantial increases in material and equipment costs. Project costs had risen to $200 million, and the
project had to be extended to 2013.

Efficiency is rated as Modest.


    a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
       re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                       Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

        Appraisal                           No
        ICR estimate                        No
                                               * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.
 6. Outcome:
      Relevance of objectives is high, relevance of project design is substantial, while achievement of two of the
project objectives (increased access; and increased SWU reliability) are substantial. Achievement of the third PDO is
modest, and project efficiency is modest.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   Sustained outcomes rely on adequate O&M, cost recovery, the greater efficiency gains via PPPs or the internally
delegated management contracts (as in Ogun) and continued human capacity building in the SWAs. Trends are in the
right direction but it remains to be seen how much autonomy will be given to the SWAs and how quickly. The project
received an additional three years to achieve its PPP and state water regulatory authority goals, but fell short. Simply
put, there are political issues that are not easily resolved. The SWAs are still dependent, although less so, upon state
subsidies, thus the long-term financial viability of the outcomes is in question.

Problems such as an unreliable power supply (somewhat mitigated by generators) and inadequate operation and
maintenance persist. As do the problems of illegal connections and untimely or non-payment of bills.

Two subsequent Bank funded projects targeting Nigeria’s water sector which are now operational continue to address
some policy related risks and provide oversight and limited technical assistance. Overall, the risk to development
outcome is still substantial.


   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The ICR notes, and the reviewer concurs with, weaknesses in the results framework and M&E (lack of
baselines and less than appropriate indicators to gauge service reliability).

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The various project elements – fiduciary, technical, and safeguard-related – were generally implemented as
planned and successful in achieving progress toward the project technical goals if not exceeding them. Project
supervision was sound and the TTL was based in Nigeria.
The Bank reminded the government agencies of the need for policy reform on a regular basis, but the policy
related reforms were only partially achieved in that the laws authorizing establishment of State Water Regulatory
Authorities were prepared, but not yet adopted. However, the Bank team did not adequately focus on SWA's
financial status (compared to the physical infrastructure components) and failed to detect contract management
issues in Enugu and Ogun early enough to prevent them.

Otherwise Bank supervision was satisfactory. It responded in timely manner to the construction cost overruns,
challenges with the reforms and political economy, and negotiated the additional financing package, and project
extensions.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
      The Federal Government commitment to the project appeared strong at the time of entry and throughout the
project. The government confirmed its commitment through a Letter of Sector Policy from the line ministry, the
Federal Ministry of Water Resources (FMWR), prior to project initiation in 2003.

Project implementation by the FMWR included the federal level activities (e.g., sector coordination, working with
nonparticipating states to improve conditions and increase likelihood of participation, and sector reform: National
Water Policy, national strategy to increase low income household connections to water supply) assistance to the
State Water Agencies related to procurement, and oversight, especially as pertains to M&E.

Generally speaking all procedures were appropriately procedures were followed by the FMWR, but it was
sometimes not included by the state governments and water authorities in critical information flows, so appropriate
action (eg. overcommitment, and some contract mismanagement) was not always possible. The National Water
Policy which provided for access by the poor was prepared and adopted. This helped move Nigeria towards its
MDG commitments and also the sector reforms.

The state governments generally supported the project implementation units and provided oversight and financial
support to the targeted water systems, but the governments did not enact laws authorizing the creation of State
Water Regulatory Agencies and facilitate the autonomy needed to raise rates and better establish fiscal reliability.
Additionally bureaucratic State procedures hampered project implementation, eg. in Ogun, project accounts were
frozen for several months pending a review of all state finances by a new state administration.


   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    This assesses the performance of the three State Water Agencies (SWA). Each SWA led by their project
implementation units (PIU) remained committed to the project, but was restricted by their placement within state
agencies subject to political pressures and a need for continual subsidies to remain afloat financially. As the ICR
notes on page 23, “Successful implementation of most investments as well as management of fiduciary,
safeguards, and other implementation aspects for most activities with minor or moderate shortcomings is
testament to the capacity built through the project and the support provided.”

The PIUs in the SWAs also struggled to retain trained staff. Enugu and Ogun had 4-5 project coordinators while
Kaduna had 3 coordinators. Trained specialists would be reassigned by the state or would volunteer for better
paying assignments in other projects or agencies. This affected project implementation.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   It is not clear if adequate funding was planned for the project M&E. The $9.85M USD for Component 3, which
included M&E, was not broken down in the ICR to determine how much funding was available and how much was
allocated for other projects such as special studies , stakeholder communication, training, or working with
non-participating states. The ICR states that the total allocation for this component was increased during the
restructuring, but a review of the restructuring documents and the ICR did not show the itemized breakdown.

The results framework did not have all the baseline data or specific targets for important indicators (population and
households served). This issue was addressed during the project restructuring when targets the indicators were
established. The indicators were for the most part similar or standard for infrastructure projects, except for:
One of three project objectives addressed service reliability, but standard measures of reliability (e.g., time when
water would be available, frequency of outages, water pressure at set points) were not employed. The ICR notes this
weakness.

The complete design and scope of the project’s M&E activities funded by the project, however, is not clear. For
example, the ICR does not include information about how water quality was monitored nor whether the training
provided included a post-training skills assessment. While not directly tied to the project indicators, the ICR should
have been more comprehensive in noting what M&E functions were carried out using project funds.
 b. M&E Implementation:
   The project M&E was improved during the restructuring when the indicators (except for indicators on service
reliability ) were refined, improved and specific targets were designated.
After restructuring, the operationalization of another indicator became problematic. Indicator 7 was originally “At least
20% increase in water availability to end users.” This was revised and operationalized as, “the water available to
users, as measured at bulk meter exit from water production facilities” (See ICR page ix). The water exiting from a
production facility is not a good representation of what is available to end users in terms of quality, quantity, or
reliability/frequency.

The ICR states that regular progress reports were prepared, but there appeared gaps in the reporting links between
the states and the federal agency FMWR, pertaining to the financial performance of the water utilities and monitoring
of contract management by Enugu SWA. Financial data of utilities is always hard to get at, but federal oversight of
contract management in Enugu should have been more stringent given that Enugu had joined the project late, was a
first time client, and had no prior experience with IDA's procedures.

Credit must be given for including an impact evaluation survey in the M&E system. This survey was commissioned in
January 2014. Unfortunately, the methodology is not clear in the ICR, nor is the data presented in a way that
substantive findings can be identified. For example, it is not clear from the ICR whether some questions are a subset
of respondents or all of them. Sample sizes are not reported. The beneficiary impact survey annex states that, “The
customers who are getting the water supply attested to the fact that the service they get from the Water Agencies is
now impressive and greatly improved in terms of quality, quantity, regularity and pressure. This is so for customers
residing in the main urban areas (State Capitals). This is not the case for those living at peri-urban areas.” (ICR page
45). The results reported in the ICR, however, is not broken down into urban and peri-urban areas.


 c. M&E Utilization:
   The project’s M&E data was used for bank reporting, but the ICR does not elaborate on additional areas where the
data was certain to have been used (e.g., by the Bank to follow up with state water agencies and by both the project
and Bank in communicating with policy makers regarding the need for tariffs and other issues noted in the efficiency
analysis). A stakeholder workshop was not conducted and it is unclear whether the results of the beneficiary impact
survey was communicated to stakeholders.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
The project triggered four safeguard policies: Environmental Assessment, OP 4.0 1 (Category B); Involuntary
Resettlement, OP 4.12; Safety of Dams, OP 4.37; and Projects on International Waterways, OP 7.50.

Project staff at the federal and state level received training related to the safeguards required and required
frameworks, environmental impact assessments, and plans related to Environment Management and resettlement
were created. The ICR reports that the Bank closely supervised safeguard related activities and the prepared plans
were followed. No major issues were reported and there is no indication in the ICR that any issues arose that required
specific actions. This was further confirmed by the project team, who reported that all the civil works were in existing
sites, and new pipelines laid down were within "right of way". Hence there appeared no resettlement was involved.
While the PAD anticipated minor rehabilitation of dams may be required, only one federal multipurpose dam at Ogun
was involved. The project team reported that minor rehabilitation was done, as this dam was used for household
water only in the dry season at peak periods. A specialist on dams was contracted and no safeguards issues were
identified.

The ICR stated that there were no major issues related to management of Safeguards, and that overall safeguards
compliance by the project was satisfactory.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management

An assessment of capacity was conducted prior to effectiveness and training was provided to the financial
management groups of the federal and state project implementing units. Computerized systems were provided as
needed to assist with the project. Some financial management issues in Enugu State had been noted in the MTR.
relating to lapses in internal control and failure to follow Bank procedures. These issues were addressed, but not
complete mitigated as Enugu was found to have over-committed funds at the end of the project. The ICR reports that
quarterly financial reports were submitted to the Bank on time and that the independent, external audit reports found
no significant issues. The ICR further noted that Financial Management compliance under the project was moderately
satisfactory.

Procurement

The issues related to Enugu's financial performance was linked to its procurement practices and management of
contracts. Having joined the project late as a substitute for Kano State, Enugu also had no prior experience with IDA
procedures. A Procurement Capacity Assessment had been conducted at appraisal which found Kano, Kaduna and
Ogun (original states) as experienced Bank clients with good procurement track records in general. While
experienced consultants were retained to support Enugu, there remained over commitment of budget and inadequate
supervision of some contracts in Enugu. Ultimately a post-procurement review conducted for the project found no
major issues in any of the states. The ICR stated that implementation of the procurement function was moderately
satisfactory and procurement was generally conducted in accordance with the Bank’s Guidelines.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
No substantive unintended consequences were noted during the review of the ICR and other project materials.


d. Other:
None


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR provided a number of lessons three of which are presented here:
1) Appropriateness of reform program for local context . Projects involving the introduction of significant reforms to
improve sector outcomes based on global good practice should set realistic timeframes and targets based on
candid assessment of the local context, including the political economy, market risks and the sector’s ability to
hedge them, and sector readiness for proposed changes, as well as recognition of the fact that reform is a
long-term process that requires the engagement, commitment, and support of all key stakeholders.
2) Need for incentives and champions for states to advance reforms . Having a sector policy letter from the
government at entry does not guarantee political will; political will needs to be assessed and managed throughout
the project cycle to achieve results and projects need to identify strong national and local champions to advance
needed reforms. Project design should also include incentives to make Borrowers more accountable for achieving
results on all critical activities, including reforms required to ensure achievement of development outcomes.
Incentives such as state selection to participate in projects based on demonstrated achievement of critical reforms,
or to access additional funds during implementation should be built into projects. This approach was applied in the
design of a follow on project NUWSRP 3.

3) Need for appropriate internal controls . The design of project implementation arrangements that are
decentralized to the sub-national level such as state level, should ensure that adequate checks and controls are
included and enforced in supervision arrangements, especially where capacity is an issue. While the addition of
extra layers of oversight is not desirable, there is value in including mechanisms at federal level to ensure closer
monitoring of critical activities such as award of large contracts at the subnational level. Detailed arrangements
should be agreed by all parties and included in the Project Implementation Manual. Project design should also
ensure that adequate contract management capacity is built in implementing agencies at both federal and state
level to support these activities

14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

This is a complex project with many interacting facets including four implementing agencies, several water systems,
and a wide range of activities related to rehabilitation of the water sector. For the most part, the ICR does a good job
summarizing the issues and reporting outcomes, but it is often not clear what the total number of planned activities
was and the actual results achieved. There is a disconnect between the original planned targets in the PAD/original
financing agreement, and the ICR. Each has a list of water systems to be targeted. These lists do not completely
match up and although the target and achievement number (13 systems) are listed in the ICR (100% achievement), it
is not clear which of the 21 systems listed in the original financing agreement have been excluded. In a similar
fashion, dam safety measures were to be conducted as dams were a safeguard issue triggered by the project. It is not
clear, however, what dams were targeted and which were serviced in some manner. Ultimately some of these were
clarified by the project team eg the project team reported that there was little need to work on the dams, and only one
Oyun Dam was involved. Small rehabilitation works was done (and not on the core dam). Such specific information
should have been in the ICR.
Likewise, there was a large difference between actual costs ($28.5 million) and planned costs ($9.9 million) for
component 3, Capacity Building and Project Management. This difference should have been discussed at length in
the ICR but was not. In response to IEG’s request, the Project team reported " the sheer numbers in stakeholders (the
Ministries who oversee the activities of the utility as well as the politicians who are responsible for approval of policies)
who had to be "mobilized" on behalf of the project was the sole source of the increase in costs".
The ICR is borderline of satisfactory.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
