-AJ 3 z JY  57
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9383-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
GAS INVESTMENT PROJECT
JUNE 3, 1991
Country Department III
Industry & Energy Operations Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performiance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   Egyptian Pound (LE) - 100 piastres
LE 1.0 = US$0.353 (December 1990)
US$1.0 - LE2.83 (December 1990)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
BCM (billion cubic meters)        35.3 billion cubic feet
GWh (Gigawatt hour)            -  1,000,000 kWh
cm (centimeter)                =  0.4 inch
mcf                               thousand cubic feet
mcfd                           -  thousand cubic feet per day
mcm                            =  thousand cubic meters
mmcfd                          =  million cubic feet/day
MT                             G  million tons
MTOE                              million tons of oil equivalent
MW (Megawatt)                  =  1,000 kW
One cubic meter                =  264 US gallons
= 35.31 cubic feet
One kilometer (>m)                0.6214 miles
One metric ton (mt) (1,000 kg)-  2,205 pounds
tcf                            -  trillion cubic feet
tonne                          =  1.1 short ton
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AIC         - Average Incremental Cost
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
EGPC        =  Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation
EIB         =  European Investment Bank
ENPPI       =  Engineering Company for Petroleum and Process Industries
ESMAP       =  Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
GCGDP       =  Greater Cairo Gas Distribution Project
GDP         -  Gross Domestic Product
GEF         =  Global Environment Fund
GOE         =  Government of Egypt
GPC         =  General Petroleum Company
5UPCO       -  Gulf of Suez Petroleum Company
ICB         =  International Competitive Bidding
IOC         =  International Oil Company
LPG         -  Liquified Petroleum Gas
MIS         =  Management Information System
PETROBEL    -  Belayim Petroleum Company
PETROGAS    =  Petroleum Gas Company
PPC         =  Petroleum Pipeline Corporation
PPAR        -  Project Performance and Audit Report
PRS         -  Pressure Regulation Stations
PSC         =  Production Sharing Contract
SAL         =  Structural Adjustment Loan
SCADA       =  Supervisory Control ar  Data Acquisition
SUCO        =  Suez Oil Company
TGG         - Trans Gulf Gas
TOR         -  Terms of Reference
WEPCO       =  Western Desert Petroleum Company
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCuL USE ONLY
AR"ABRMELIC OF E
Table of Contents
pare N!o..
LOAN AD PROJECT SUMRY ..                       .. .-i
I.    Il RODUCTICN   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    1
II.  SECTORAL STING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
A.  Energy Endowment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
B.  Developments in the Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Pricing.         . ....................  4
Poverty Impact Minimization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
SupplyIncreases                         .5
Value Added Increase of Products  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Private Sector Support                      .5
III. NATURAL GAS SUBSECTOR.6
A. Institutional Setting            ..                                    6
B. Gas Reserves ..                                                        7
C.  History of Gas Supply and Consumption  . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
D.  Gas Supply - Futre  . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .9
E. Development Plan   ..10
F. Gas Pricing .11
G.  Bank's Role in the Sector and Experience in Past Lending             13
IV.  THE BORER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
A. Statutory Functions .14
B. Capital Structure .15
C.  Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
D.  Functional Structure .......  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..                .   16
Exploration and Production  .....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   16
Refining and Processing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
Petroleum Pipeline  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
Distribution .16
Accounts and Audit .16
Insurance   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Egypt in
November 1990, comprising Nessrs. G. Stuggins (Task Manager), M. Shirazi, N.C.
Krlshnamurthy, M. Lavitaky, U. Klrmani, and D. McKay (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii X
able of Contents (Contlnued)
Page No.
E.  Petroleum Gas Company (Petrogia) ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   17
Background  ......  .         .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .    .   17
Capital Structure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Insurance ......  .        ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .   .   18
Project Engineering and Implementation  ... .        .   .  .    .  18
V. THEPROJECT .18
A.  Project Objectives and Scope . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    .  18
B.  Rationale for Bank Involvement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
C.  Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Greater Cairo Gas Distribution Component  . . . . . . . .  20
Trans Gulf Gas Component   ..20
D.  Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
E.  Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
F.  Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
G.  Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
H.  Monitoring and Supervision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
Retroactive Financing and Advance Contracting . . . . . .  26
I.  Environment  . . . . . . . . . i . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
Environmental and Safety Review of GCGDC  . . . . . . . .   27
Environmental and Safety Review of Trans Gulf
Gas Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
J.  Project Management and Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . .  28
Greater Cairo Gas Development Component . . . . . . . . .  28
Trans Gulf Gas Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
VI.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
A.  Historic EGPC Financial Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
B.  EGPC Accounts and Audit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .   31
C.  Historic Petrogas Financial Performance  . . . . . . . . . .  32
D.  Future Petrogas Investments and Financing  . . . . . . . . .  33
E.  Petrogas Accounts and Audit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
VII.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  ................  ......                           .   36
A.  Economic Justification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
B.  Project Economic Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
Ci.  Project Economic Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
D.  Economic Rate of Return  ......   . ..........                    .   38
E.  Risks  ..........................   39
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39



eiii 
Zble of Contents (Centinued1
ANNEX    I   Functional Structure of Oil Industry
ANNEX   I;   EGPC Organization Chart
ANNEX  III   Natural Gas Supply and Potential Demand Assessment
ANNEX   IV   Petrogas Organization Chart
ANNEX    V   Greater Cairo Gas Distritution Component
ANNEX   VI   Trans Gulf Gas Project
ANNEX  VII   Gas Market Development
ANNEX VIII   Refinery Sector Investment Planning Study - Draft TORs
ANNEX   IX   Gulf of Suez Gas Development Study - Draft TORs
ANNEX    X   Cost of Gas Distribution Study
ANNEX   XI   Project Supervision Plan
ANNEX  XII   EGPC Financial Performance
ANNEX XIII   Petrogas Financial Performance
ANNEX  XIV   Economic Analysis
IBRD Map Nos. 22905 and 22906



- i a
RAB REPUBLIC OF EG9PT
GAS INVESTMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower,:            Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation
Guarantor:            Arab Republic of Egypt
Amount:               US$84 million
Terms:                Standard IBRD terms, with 20 years maturity
Project Obiectives   The primary objectives of the project are to increase
and Descrptio5 :      the use of a nontradeable commodity, natural gas; to
release tradeable petroleum products for export; and to
decrease the environmental impact of fuel use. The
project focusses not only on increasing the supply of
natural gas by reducing flaring and debottlenecking the
supply constraints rf transporting gas to market, but
also provides the infrastructure required to maximize the
value added of the fuels being substituted. The project
enables the delivery of a clean-burning fuel to the
Greater Cairo area to displace petroleum products, thus
mitigating air pollution problems. The institution
building efforts for Petrogas initiated in the previous
Bank loan would be further enhanced to increase its
commercialization.
BenLefit$             The gas distribution network extension would allow for
and Rlisks:           the replacement of higher valued petroleum products
(primarily LPG and gas oil), thus substantially
increasing the va.ue added of natural gas. Extension of
the existing gas network would increase th& delivery
capability of the least-cost fuel to an additional
235,000 households, 5,000 commercial and 22 industrial
consumers. The Trans Gulf Gas Component would increase
gas supplies to the network by about 70 mmcfd as a result
of decreased flaring of natural gas in the Gulf of Suez.
The gas distribution component also has the environmental
benefits of substituting a cleaner burning fuel for other
hydrocarbon products and decreasing vehicular traffic in
Cairo. The Trans Gulf Gas Component would decrease the
flaring of natural gas and largely replace high sulphur
fuel oil use in dual-fired power plants, freeing up
petroleum products for export. Thus, the project would
decrease the budget deficit by lowering the cost of
energy supply and help the balance of payments by
increasing exports. The financial risks associated with
the project largely focus on energy price adjustments.
The Government has taken the first two steps in a five-
year program of energy price adjustments and is committed
to continuing this reform program. This upfront energy



. ii -
prlce action has mLnimized the risk on financial and
economic viability.
Estimated Prosect Cost
(USt MiL1ion):
Foreign
as X of      X of
LQl   fa£na    TotlL    Total         one Cot
Greater Cairo Gas Distribution Component
Materials                                    13.4     67.8      81.2     83.5         34.3
Construction                                 67.8     23.3      91.1     25.6         38.5
Technical Services and Training               4.4      8.0      12.4     64.5          5.2
Base Cost                             85.6      99.1    184.7      53.7        78.0
Trans Gulf Gas Component
Equfipment and Naterials                      4.7     31.8      36.5     87.1         15.4
Construction                                  1.8      5.3       7.1     74.6          3.0
Technical Services and Training               2.1      6.5      8.6      75.6         3.6
Base Cost                             8.6    -3L6A        5.          5       _ZZ
Base Project Cost                            94.2    142.7    236.9      60.2        100.0
Physical Contingency                             8.0      7.6      15.6     48.7
Price Contingency                             .J3j   _.6M    29.9           Ha1
Total Project Cost                          116.5    165.9    282.4      58.7
Interest During Construction (IOC)             0.0    .3L.1    1    100.0
Total Project Cost + IDC                    116.5    169.0    285.5      59.2
wu         -      uuu3



iii-
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreig      Total    X o-f Total
EGPC                        60.5       52.0     112.5        39.4
Petrogas                    56.0        0.0      56.0        19.6
IBRD                         0.0       84.0      84.0        29.4
EIB                          O.Q       33.0      33.0        11.6
Total                    116.5      169.0     285.5       100%
Estimated Disbursement
(USIS Million):
FY92   FY93   FY94   E95   FY96   FY97
Annual                          7.7   35.5   15.3   10.8   11.3    3.4
Cumulative                      7.7   43.2   58.5   69.3   80.6   84.0
Economic Rate
of Return:            18 percent
Map:  IBRD Nos. 22905 and 22906



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EGYPT
GAS-IRVESTMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Between 1973 and the early 1980s, Egypt achieved rapid economic
growth accompanied by significant social progress. Not only had GDP expanded
by about 9 percent per annum (1974-1981), but the country also benefited from
large gains in the terms of trade. The primary engine of growth was the rapid
inc:-ease in foreign exchange earnings from oil-based income: oil exports, Suez
Canal fees and workers' remittances. This growth scenario began to weaken in
1982 with decreases in world oil prices and finally ended in 1986 when oil
prices plummeted. Although the steep rise in oil prices in the August 1990 -
anuary 1991 period increased oil export revenue, lost remittances and other
costs have substantially aggravated Egypt's financial problems.
1.02     Five major economic
problems became increasingly    Figure 1: Role of OiI & Gas in Economy
acute during the 1980s.       4|_ 
First, the economy                4
experienced widening
financial disequilibria.          3___ _.__
The current account and
budget deficits averaged          3_
about 7 and 22 percent of         2__
GDP, respectively.  Second,
economic growth was achieved      2___.
at the cost of increased
vulnerability, resulting    __
from an overreliance on oil-         __ .
based revenues (see Figure
1) that made the balance of
payments vulnerable to
external shocks.  Third,                FY3  FYE4 Fy5  FYM   MI)  FYN  FY99
pervasive distortions in the                        Fr9a1 Yew
Egyptian economy caused by                      BSwtsi6 CM Gvt Aven
decades of distorted price
signals resulted in
widespread inefficiencies in investments; the economic structure does not
reflect the comparative advantage of the country and can not form the basis
for sustained growth, once oil had ceased to play a major role. Fourth, 70
percent of the industrial value added is publicly owned and suffers from
pervasive problems, including the maintenance of insolvent companies supported
by a complex set of subsidies and overdrafts, barriers to labor mobility and
an inappropriate incentive system. Fifth, external debt outstanding and
disbursed increased by 64 percent from FY82 to FY87, and debt service tripled,
resulting in a debt service ratio exceeding 60 percent. Total debt was
estimated at US$50 billion by 1988, equivalent to 147 percent of GDP.



-2-
Although recent debt forgiveness will ease debt servicing, the problem of
debt-driven development still must be addressed.
1.03     The energy sector plays a key role in all of the above macroeconomic
problems. Subsidies on domestic energy consumption have been estimated to
range from 30 percent to 50 percent of the country's total subsidy burden
between FY80 to FY88. The total level of implicit subsidies directed toward
downstream sectors in Ff9l is estimated to be 9.6 percent of GDP. As a direct
result, per capita energy consumption reached 607 kg of oil equivalent by
1988, 56 percent above the average for countries in the US$500-US$1,500 GNP
per capita range.
1.04     As Egypt's oil production is expected to begin its decline in the
mid-1990s, it may become a net importer of crude oil before the end of the
decade. To compensate for the impact this decline in exports would have on
the balance of payment and budget deficit, two specific changes in policy
strategy have been adopted. First, a five year (1990-1995) energy price
adjustment program has been initiated, directed at ending domestic energy
subsidies by June 1995. The pricing reform program is front-loaded with the
largest price increases directed to the earlier years. Such an approach is
designed: (i) to ensure that the growth in energy consumption will decline in
the near term; and (ii) to decrease the budget deficit substantively. The
first two steps of the energy price reform have been implemented (in May 1990
and May 1991) resulting in energy prices more than double what they were prior
to the start of the program. Furthermore, the Government has also addressed
structural imbalances within the mix of energy prices by focussing the largest
price adjustments on products with the largest element of subsidy. In
addition, in 1986 the Government increased the incentives for oil companies to
explore and develop natural gas potential by adopting a new gas clause. This
clause establishes the value of natural gas purchased from the oil companies
at 85 percent of the price of internationally traded fuel oil. Increasing the
role of natural gas in meeting domestic energy demand will free oil products
for export and thus mitigate the balance of payments problem. As the cost of
the supply of natural gas is economically attractive relative to the remaining
supply alternatives, the cost of the domestic energy supply will decrease.
Environmental degradation will be ameliorated by substituting high sulphur
fuel oil with a clean burning fuel. Decreasing the flaring of associated
natural gas will also address global warming by decreasing CO2 releases.
II. SECTORAL SETTING
A. BDsravy Endowment
2.01     The primary sources of the commercial energy consumption in FY88 of
27.0 MTOE were oil (67 percent), natural gas and condensates (24 percent) and
hydro power (9 percent). As of 1988, proven oil and natural gas reserves were
480 million tons (MT) and 12 trillion cubic feet (tcf), respectively.
Reserves of coal are limited, and the only mining project under consideration
is the Maghara Mine in Sinai, with estimated net proven reserves of about 27.8



- 3 -
million tons. Egypt's total hydropower potential is about 12,000 GWh/a, of
which 9,000 GWh/a were harnessed with the completion of the Aswan Dam and
1,100 (Wh/a with Aswan II. Given that oil production has stabilized and is
expecteJ to decrease over the medium to long term, an&d that the vast majority
of hydro potential has been developed, indigenous energy supply growth is
primarily restricted to natural gas'. This limitation necessitates that
natural gas exploration and development be accelerated to keep Egypt from
becoming a net importer of energy in the not too distant future.
2.02     Egypt has been                                Figure 2:
successful in attracting                    _____________S__"___
international oil companies
(IOCs) to explore, develop and            X .
produce oil.  There are some 134         X0.
production-sharing agreementc
with 50 international companiL.
acting as operators for the
state oil company, Egyptian
General Petroleum Corporation            C)
(EGPC). Successful oil
development has enabled Egypt to
supply domestic requirements and              a 0 
export about 8.3 MT of crude oil        (do_I
and 3.5 MT (net)' of petroleum                          .- .6  .
products in FY90.  The FY90                rNl                  we Om    owo "Wu
production rate is perceived to
rtpresent a plateau, which Egypt
could, at best, maintain until the mid-1990s. The growth of domestic
petroleum product consumption decelerated substantially in the FY87-FY9O
period, largely due to the modest growth in the economy, increases in the
substitution of domestic energy consumption by natural gas and energy price
increases. A continuation of this trend would help mitigate the erosion of
oil export potential, thereby increasing the revenues required by Egypt for
balance of payments support. However, even with the expected increases in
energy prices and gas supply, forecast declines in crude oil production during
the latter half of the 1990s may result in Egypt becoming a net importer of
crude oil by the year 2000 (see Figure 2).
2.03     Over the longer term (beyond 2000), Egypt may have to resort to
energy imports. Given its geographic location, a comparative advantage may be
natural gas imports from neighboring countries: a gas pipeline from the Gulf
countries may be worth exploring. Failing that, the use of alternate fuel
1J There is also a limited potential for commercially exploiting wind and
solar power; however, these sources are not expected to have a substantial
impact on the primary energy supply over the near to medium term.
2/ Egypt's exports of petroleum products were 4.8 MT consisting primarily of
bunker oil, naphtha and fuel oil, while the 1.3 MT of petroleum products
imported consisted primarily of gas oil and jet fuel.



- 4 -
efficient technolories (such as cogeneration) and the relative value of
importing coal for the production of electricity (which would have the
additional advantage of diversifying the primary energy source) should be
considered. However, it is generally felt that a substantial increase in
natural gas production is possible by developing off-shore and fragmented on-
shore gas fields.
B. Develonbments in the Setor
2.04     Pricing.  In the 1970s, the Government's perception of indigenous
energy resources was that they were plentiful. Therefore, their use was
promoted domestically through pricing incentives and investments in downstream
products with a high energy input content. This policy has resulted in an
industrial base whose capital/energy/labor mix is distorted, imposing
financial hardships on the economy. The increasing use of energy resources in
the domestic market has severely diminished export capacity by accelerating
the depletion of the nonrenewable resource base. The high domestic
consumption of natural resources during the mid-1970s to mid-1980s, and the
lack of success in finding sizable reserves, has led to projections that Egypt
will become a net importer of energy by the mid-1990s. The Government has
addressed this problem by a systematic change in policies since 1986,
including increases in energy prices and the substitution of high-valued
products with lower cost alternatives, including natural gas. Petroleum
product prices were nearly tripled betwieen 1986 and 1989, and electricitv
prices have been increased by about 30 percent three times in the same period.
Unfortunately, much of the progress made in energy price adjustments has been
eroded by inflation, which has accelerated from 12 percent to 25 percent p.a.
during this period.
2.05     As a result, the Government has adopted a revised strategy to address
the pricing issue. in 1989, the Government agreed to increase energy prices
to their economic levels by June 1995. In 1990, this agreement was enhanced
by adopting annual targets of energy prices as a percentage of their economic
levels. Thus, the target of full economic pricing of energy products by 1995
has been fortified by establishing front-loaded annual targets, which address
the immediate macroeconomic problems facing the Government. The firLt step in
achieving this goal was made in May 1990 with increases in weighted average
petroleum product prices (44 percent) and in electricity prices (38 percent).
The Government implemented the second step in May 1991 by increasing weighted
average petroleum product prices by 52 percent (including bulk sales of
natural gas, which were increased by 60 percent) and electricity prices by 50
percent. The focus of petroleum product price increases was on the heavily
subsidized products with gas oil, diesel fuel and kerosene prices, all having
been doubled. LPG prices were increased by 67 to 83 percent, depending upon
the volume of consumption. Thus, the primary products for which natural gas
is a substitute were increased by the greatest amount, considerably enhancing
the incentive to switch to natural gas use. These increases also allowed the
Government to increase the price charged for low natural gas consumpcion
levels by 83 percent, without having an impact on the relative attractiveness



of gas use. This expected increase in interfuel substitution will decrease
the cost of energy supply, free more oil for exports and decrease the
environmental impact of energy use. In addition, the Government confirmed a
further increase in petroleum product prices, which would take place no later
than December 1991, to ensure that domestic petroleum product prices reach 56
percent of world prices.
2.06     Povert3E Impagct Miniization.  Although energy plays a secondary role
in the basket of commodities purchased by the poor, the proposed energy price
adjustment program has been designed to minimize its impact on the poor.
Kerosene is the primary fuel used by the poor in Egypt (for cooking and
lighting). Because of the country's relatively high level of electrification,
electricity is also used - on a limited scale - by the poor (mostly for
lighting). In other countries, LPG tends to be a transitional fuel for people
living in the urban areas. However because of its low price in Egypt, LPG is
also a fuel used by the urban poor for cooking. Therefore, energy price
adjustments have been designed to protect the poor from the impact of the
price adjustment program: (i) the unit price of LPG in small bottles typically
used in households is slightly lower than for larger bottles; (ii) low levels
of household electricity consumption receive the highest level of subsidy; and
(iii) limited cross-subsidies of petroleum products are possible.
2.07     SunpRI  Increases.  To complement energy conservation measures, the
Government has embarked on a program of decreasing the cost of domestic energy
use by increasing the supply of natural gas (as it is the least-cost fuel).
This program was reinforced by a new gas clause introduced in 1986. Natural
gas from discoveries made by IOCs would be purchased by EGPC on the basis of
the price of internationally traded fuel oil. This new gas clause has not
only been applied to new fields but also forms the basis for the increasing
gas supplies from existing fields. Since 1986, natural gas sales have
increased by an annual average of 14 percent, substituting for higher-valued
oil products such as gas oil and LPG.
2.08     Value Added Increase of Products.  Economic efficiency is also being
addressed by reviewing the potential for increasing the value added of
products displaced by natural gas. As natural gas is increasingly utilized as
a primary energy source, it increases the availability of fuel oil for export.
Unfortunately, the international prices for Egypt's fuel oil are relatively
low, reflecting its limited market and the availability of the product.
Therefore, expanding the uarkets for natural gas, which would increase netback
value, is being considered. The primary goal is to increase supplies to urban
areas to displace the high-valued fuels used in the commercial and residential
sectors (primarily LPG and gas oil). In addition, upgrading the value of Zuel
oil through investments in existing refineries (see para. 3.17) is also under
consideration.
2.09     Private Sector Support.  The oil and gas subsector in Egypt has
consistently supported a substantial role for the private sector. Exploration
and development have primarily been the responsibility of private IOCs with
production-sharing contracts, while the development and operation of the
distribution systems have been in the custody of public sector companies.



However, the Government has recently allowed gasoline to be marketed by
private sector companies. The role of the private sector in marketing
gasoline increased dramatically when Caltex (Egypt) entered the market in 1987
and Shell in 1990, joining the long-standing Esso Standard (N.E.) Inc.
Furthermore, the Government is considering selling some of its existing
gasoline marketing assets to the private sector. An additional boost to the
private sector has also been initiated in the petrochemicals industry as the
Government is currently entertaining a proposal for an ethylene/polyethylene
plant by the private sector. It is expected to form the basis for a privately
owned petro-chemical industry in Egypt, which would further increase the value
added of natural gas by using ethylene as a feedstock to plastics, PVC and/or
polyethylene.
III.  NATURAL GAS SUBSECTOR
A. Institutional Setting
3.01     The Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources functions as the
coordinator and policymaker for the oil and gas subsector and decides upon
capital investment programs jointly with the Ministry of Planning (MOP).
Energy pricing issues are formalized at the ministry level for consideration
by the cabinet. In addition, an autonomous planning department within the
Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources, the Organization for Energy
Planning, provides technical and policy-oriented energy research.
3.02     The government-owned Egypt General Petroleum Company was created in
1956 to oversee all matters relating to the petroleum industry. With the
general restructuring of the public sector in 1962, this authority was
converted into the Egyptian General Petroleum Organization. With the
promulgation of Law 20 of 1976, the Egyptian General Petroleum Organization
was converted into the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC), the
beneficiary of the proposed loan. The Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral
Resources, which was created in 1973, acts as a link between EGPC and other
government bodies, while the primary responsibility for managing all
exploration, production, and the refining of oil and gas rests with EGPC. The
distribution and marketing of oil and gas is largely carried out by EGPC and
its subsidiaries, but private companies are involved in the distribution and
marketing of gasoline and LPG. EGPC dominates the sector through its wholly
or partly owned affiliates and the operating companies formed in partnership
with foreign oil companies (see Annex I for details). Each of the major
market functions - production, refining, transmission, distribution, and
ancillary services - are represented by different organizations (outlined in
Annex II). EGPC, as the holding company, acts as the operational and
financial coordinator implicitly setting transfer prices between subsidiaries.
While the organizations have some financial autonomy, they are generally
dependent on EGPC.
3.03     Natural gas activities are dominated by six organizations: EGPC
through its Natural Gas Department; three joint operating companies --WEPCO,



- 7 -
PETROBEL, and GUPCO; and two wholly owned EGPC subsidiaries-- Petroleum
Pipeline Corp (PPC) and PETROGAS. PPC constructs and operates the gas
transmission network, and PETROGAS is responsible for all gas distribution and
most of the LPG distribution. Other EGPC affiliates perform ancillary
services, such as Egypt Gas, which carries out distribution network
construction. Although EGPC may, in principle, be in charge of developing a
long-term gas plan, in practice there is little long-term planning, and
planning coordination with major consumers (especially the Egyptian
Electricity Authority) seems to be limited.
B. Gas Reserves
3.04     Egypt has substantial gas reserves; a large proportion of which have
either already been developed or are currently under development.
Authoritative sources put reserves at around 12 tcf as of end-1989, with some
8.5 tcf of this nonassociated gas. By comparison, reserves at end-FY80 were
around 3.0 tcf. Reserves in producing fields at end-FY90 were 6.4 tcf, and
reserves under development were some 2.5 tcf. Most of the balance of 3.1 tcf
of unutilized gas is accounted for by fields that require further appraisal,
by fields that are far from existing pipelines, or by Gulf of Suez gas that
cannot be used at present due to processing and pipeline constraints.
3.05     Egypt's undiscovered gas resources are generally held to be
substantial, and the country is now viewed by many IOCs as having more
undiscovered gas than oil. The enactment of a revised Petroleum Law in 1986,
giving companies the right to sell gas to EGPC at a price equivalent to 85
percent of fuel oil, was, thus, essencial in encouraging continued
exploration. Several new concession agreements in areas with potential gas
reserves have been signed, but drilling in recent years has not identified any
new giant gas structures; much more investment will be required to assess the
potential of relatively underexplored areas.
C. Historr of Gas SUoIXv and ConsumRtion
3.06     Egypt's gas production comes from four main regions: the Eastern Nile
Delta (Abu Madi field), the Western Nile Delta (Abu Qir field), the Western
Desert (Abu el Gharadig field) and the Gulf of Suez (the Ras Shukeir
Processing Plant). Production grew from 230 mmcfd in FY81 to 730 mmcfd in
FY90. Egypt's gas production has generally been very low cost, due to the
good qualities and favorable location of onshore fields and the low marginal
cost of associated gas utilization.
3.07     The development of gas usage has involved the construction of a
national pipeline network of 2,000 km. The core of the network, known as the
National Grid, connects Alexandria with Cairo, Suez and Port Said and has
achieved a high degree of flexibility. The system should be able to cope with
anticipated production increases in the next few years with only modest



- 8 -
upgrading. However, pipelines from peripheral supply areas to the national
grid, particularly from the Western Desert and the Gulf of Suez, have limited
potential to cope with additional deliveries.
3.08     Natural gas plays an increasing role in supplying the energy of
Greater Cairo, in which about one fourth of the country's 55 million people
reside. The city is located in the central junction of the national gas
transmission network, which by the end of FY90 had a total capacity of about
12 billion cubic meters per annum. The gas from Abu Madi and Abu Qir in the
northern part of the country flows through a 20-inch pipeline and enters a 24-
inch, high pressure (31 bars) distribution feeder main. This main stretches
in two directions and encircles a major port of the city. Towards the west,
it crosses the Nile to reach the western part of Cairo; towards the northeast,
it receives gas at the Heliopolis pressure regulating station through a new
16-inch pipeline from the Gulf of Suez; towards the south of Cairo it connects
to the 24-inch pipeline from the Abu Gharadig field, about 270 km west of
Cairo. This pipeline also crosses the Nile in the south of Cairo, and a
third, recently completed, crossing supplies gas from the network in the
western part of the city to customers on Zamalik Island. The Cairo gas
distribution feeder main supplies gas to several areas of the city and a few
power plants along its 90-km route. The first Bank-funded Cairo Gas
Distribution Project, which included the construction of a major part of the
above main and the supply of gas to 160,000 consumers, has now expanded to a
larger network supplying about 326,000 residential consumers, 4 power plants
and a limited number of commercial users on both sides of the Nile. Gas is
being supplied to Cairo under an existing open-ended contract between EGPC and
Petrogas.
3.09     Substantial gas reserves in the far northwestern desert (Khalda and
nearby fields) are not connected to the national grid. This gas is being
partially developed for local power consumption until sufficient reserves can
be proved to justify a longer pipeline to Alexandria. The only major centers
of energy consumption not linked to the gas grid are the Assiut and Upper
Egypt regions. However, the growth of heavy industry and fuel-oil-fired power
generation in the Assiut region may justify connection to the gas grid in
future, if sufficient supplies of gas are available.
3.10     Gas consumption in Egypt initially focussed on the fertilizer sector,
which accounted for 40 percent of demand in FY82. During the past decade,
usage has shifted towards power, which now accounts for around 60 percent of
demand, with fertilizers accounting for 16 percent. Most heavy industry has
been converted to gas, or to dual oil/gas firing. The penetration of the
residential market has been modest, with g"s consumption through the first
Greater Cairo Gas Distribution scheme accounting for only 1 percent of the
total gas supply ir FY90.



- 9 -
D. Gas Supoly - Future
3.11     Total gas production in Egypt is expected to increase from 730 mmcfd
in FY90 to 1,250 mmcfd in FY94, with the development of the North Abu Qir,
Badr el Din and El Qara fields. There is no clear plan for field development
beyond FY94. Substantial discoveries, which may provide developments in the
longer term, arc located offshore of the eastern Nile Delta and in the
southern Gulf of Suez/Red Sea area. The likely development cost of these
fields is somewhat higher than that of previous fields, due to their location
in deeper water and their distance from the National Grid.
3.12     A further option to increase supply is to improve the utilization of
Gulf of Suez gas. The Trans Gulf Gas component (see para. 5.06) could result
in an additional delivery of around 70 mmcfd of gas from FY94. Substantial
additional associated gas may also be available elsewhere in the Gulf of Suez,
if facilities are optimized. However, a full assessment of this potential
would require a detailed survey of Gulf of Suez gas resources.
3.13     Current potential economic usage of gas in Egypt greatly exceeds gas
supply capacity, and this situation is likely to prevail during the next
decade, as the gas balance in Annex III indicates. Excess demand arises in
all major consuming sectors. In power, gas burning capacity is expected to
rise by 40 percent to 10,000 MW by FY94 through the conversion of steam plants
co dual firing and the construction of new, combined-cycle plants; the
potential gas usage of this capacity represents 80 percent of expected FY94
gas production, thus indicating that continued substantial fuel oil usage in
the power subsector is likely. In the fertilizer subsector, the planned
expansion at Abu Qir and Suez will increase requirements by 50 mmcfd by 1995,
with longer-term potential requirements arising from the need to replace the
uneconomic Kima Fertilizer Plant and the need to meet further consumption
growth. In the cement sector, which currently accounts for 7 percent of
consumption, gas usage potential is forecast to increase as plants at Kattamia
and Ameriya are converted to dual firing in the next two years. Long-term
growth in cement demand (at least 4 percent p.a.) will generate substantial
additional fuel requirements, to be met either by gas or by fuel oil. In
other industries, energy usage is currently dominated by oil, and the
conversion of even half of this capacity to gas would generate an additional
demand of at least 250 mmcfd in FY95. Finally, the residential and commercial
sector provides a major potential market for gas, given Egypt's large
urbanized population and sizeable service industry base.
3.14     Based upon the anticipated supplies and the potential consumption
noted above, in the absence of major new gas discoveries, gas consumption in
Egypt will remain supply-constrained in the 1990s. Potential consumption is
likely to exceed supply by around 400 mcfd in FY95, while by FY2000, the
deficit will reach 600-700 mmcfd if only currently identified reserves are
developed. It is possible that substantial discoveries of gas in the 1990s
will lead to a transient surplus of gas in Egypt. However, it should be noted
that to satisfy potential demand and to replace existing production, 21 tcf of



- 10 -
new discoveries will be required by 2005, compared with the 12 tef generated
in over 25 years of exploration to date.
E. DeveloQment Plan
3.15     The medium-term development plan for GOE calls for public sector
initiatives to support private sector investments. Gas exploration and
development is almost exclusively the domain of the private sector, with
production-sharing agreements between EGPC and IOCs. The pipelines that form
the National Grid and the distribution network are in the relatively early
stages of development, with most of these assets having been established
during the 1980s. GOE has put a high priority on completing the first phase
of the Cairo Gas Distribution component (supported by Credit No. 1024-EGT),
which would supply about 640,000 customers and aim at displaci.ag higher valued
fuels; it would also decrease the air pollution problem in Cairo and decrease
the transportation load associated with the delivery of petroleum products.
Over the medium term, GOE intends to extend the gas distribution grid in Cairo
and to install a similar network in Alexandria.
3.16     EGPC estimates that an investment program amounting to about US$800
million per year over the next five years is required to meet the needs of
sector development, which will be largely financed from internal cash
generation. However, a detailed analysis of EGPC expenditures has not been
made recently as this is usually done in preparation of the five-year plan.
This update is expected to be undertaken during 1991, after which time a
better definition of EGPC capital requirements will be available to the
Government. Extensive capital investments in pipelines, refinery upgrading
and the distribution of natural gas all look to be economically attractive.
Commitments to implement the envisioned investments (such as a gas pipeline
and related gas processing facilities for Gulf of Suez associated gas) could
also debottleneck some of the potential investments by IOCs.
3.17     Due to the mismatch between the production profile from domestic
refineries and the country's consumption profile, Egypt continues to export
low-value naphtha and fuel oil (after meeting the domestic demand of about 20
MT of refined products) and to import high-value aviation kerosene and gas
oil. After practically exhausting the option of replacing gas oil used for
power generation with natural gas during the late 1980s, future increases in
gas supply will displace fuel oil use (primarily for power generation),
thereby further exacerbating the imbalance between total demand and the
supplies from domestic refineries. The seven domestic refineries are of
topping or hydroskimming configuration with very little secondary processing
capacity for upgrading fuel oil into distillate products. The refineries also
lack adequate octane enhancement facilities, resulting in the surplus of
naphtha for export. Investment plans for the immediate future include
doubling the current capacities at the El Nasr and Assuit refineries, which
are both of the hydroskimming type. Hydroprocessing investments are being
considered for one of the locations. While this change in focus is
preferable, it is expected to be insufficient to address the growing, country-



- 11 -
wide product imbalances. In order that these may be addressed, EGPC would
undertake a Refinery Subsector Investment Planning Study (terms of reference
are included in Annex VIII). This study would evaluate secondary conversion
investment candidates over the next 10 years in order to: (i) reduce to a
minimum the costs of product supply to the domestic market through a
combination of imports, domestic refining and exports; (ii) reduce pollution
by improving product quality; and (iii) improve the value added of product
exports. The study would be completed by December 31, 1993.
3.18     About 90 percent of Egypt's oil production is from Gulf of Suez
fields, most of which include associated gas. Many of the fields are mature,
and some of them are in their declining stages of production. As these fields
continue to mature, the gas/oil ratio will increase, and more natural gas will
become available. The infrastructure in the Gulf of Suez area (the Ras
Shokeir gas treatment facilities and the Ras Shokeir-Suez pipeline) is already
running at full capacity, thus creating problems for incremental production.
Developing the gas reserves in this area is complex, both technically and
institutionally. Many fields and multiple operators are active in this
region. Each field and operator have unique technical approaches to oil and
gas recovery. Hence, the logistics of mounting a cohesive development plan
are formidable. As a result, EGPC would undertake a study, with the
assistance of consultants, to evaluate the problems and opportunities for
increased gas delivery from this region on the basis of the terms of reference
agreed to in Annex IX. It is anticipated that gas supply from this area could
increase by 250-400 mmcfd, or as much as 55 percent of average FY90 production
rates. As the study would focus on the reduction of natural gas flaring
(global warming concern) and may not be entirely economically viable, Global
Environmental Fund resources would be used to finance part of the cost of the
study while the balance would be financed from ESMAP resources. The proposed
study would be completed by December 31, 1993.
F. Gas Pricing
3.19     As outlined above, natural gas is expected to be supply-constrained
for the medium and possibly long term, largely due to the substantial
potential demand from dual-fired (fuel oil and natural gas) power plants and
heavy industry. Thus, any marginal change in natural gas availability will
impact fuel oil consumption. Therefore, the Government has established that
the marginal value of natural gas at the power plant fence (or city gate) at
the equivalent of international fuel oil for the purpose of pricing bulk
natural gas supply.
3.20     Until May 1991, about 95 percent of current natural gas consumption
is priced at 4.67 piastres/cu.m. or about 27 percent of its economic level'.
1/ Given that the average price of fuel oil over the past twelve months has
been $70/tonne, the gas price for fuel oil equivalency at an exchange rate of
2.83 LE/$ is 17 piastres/cu.m.



- 12 -
The primary recipients of this subsidy are the power and industrial sectors.
Within the context of the Government's revised energy pricing policy of
increasing the weighted average of petroleum product prices (including bulk
natural gas sales), the price of bulk sales of natural gas were increased May
3, 1991 by 61 percent to 7.5 piastres/cu.m. Furthermore, the Government
proposes to link domestic natural gas price increases to domestic fuel oil
price adjustments to bring bulk sa'les of natural gas to the equivalent of
internationally traded fuel oil prices by JuAns 1995.
3.21     The price structure of natural gas supplied to small industrial,
commercial and residential customers prior to May 1991 was as follows:
Slab (cu.m,/wonth)       price (Riastres/cu.m)
0   - 22.5                    5.5
22.5 - 37.5                   14.5
37.5 - 52.5                   18.0
above  52.5                   30.0
For levels of consumption typical of commercial customers (about 400
cu.m./mo.), natural gas costs about 30 piastres/cu.m., exceeding international
fuel oil equivalent prices and thus contributing to the recovery of
distribution costs. Fuel oil, gas oil and LPG are tf.e primary targets for
interfuel substitution by natural gas for commercial users. In the case of
small industrial consumers currently using either fuel oil or gas oil and
commercial consumers using LPG, there has been a substantial disincentive to
switch to natural gas because of the low prices of these substitute fuels.
Therefore, the Government proposes to increase the price of the heavily
subsidized petroleum products (LPG, fuel oil and gas oil) so as to enhance the
relative attractiveness of natural gas compared with its substitutes. This
will be accomplished by increasing the prices of these products by an amount
that exceeds the weighted average petroleum product increase, thus decreasing
the level of cross-subsidies. The May 3, 1991 energy price increases fully
conformad to these principles.
3.22     Prior to May 1991, the residential consumption of natural gas was
priced such that the average cost to the consumer was about 10
piastres/cu.m.', the result of no price adjustments since 1981; thus, natural
gas was attractive relative to LPG at modest levels of consumption. However,
the price of natural gas to residential consumers is well below its economic
cost. Adjusting LPG prices to reflect their international equivalent will
allow the structure of natural gas prices to domestic/commercial customers to
be addressed. Although the level and structure of natural gas pricing needs
3/ The cost of the supply of natural gas includes a stamp tax of 2.4 piastres/
cu.m., plus 20 piastres for any bill exceeding one LE/month and a maintenance
charge of 25 piastres/month. An additional cost of natural gas supply is a
meter and payment deposit of LE100. With local interest rates of 12 percent,
this amounts to an additional imputed cost for natural gas supply of about one
LE/mo.



- 13 -
to be studied to determine an appropriate strategy for its adjustment,
selected increases over the immediate term are warranted. The Government has
begun by increasing lower levels of gas consumption (O to 30 cu.m./month) by
83 percent, to 10 piastres/cu.m. Consumption levels from 30 to 60 cu.m./month
have been increased to 20 piastres/cu.m., while consumption above 60
cu.m./month is priced at 30 piatres/cu.m. In order that a strategy for
further adjustments to the level and structure of natural gas pricing can be
established, the Government will work closely with ESMAP on a Cost of Gas
Distribution Study focussing on commercial and residential consumption (draft
TOR detailed in Annex X). This study would address the reform of the present
tariff structure for natural gas distribution in Cairo, which has remained
unchanged for ten years and bears no relation to current costs. It would
examine the appropriate level and structure of tariffs to different classes of
customers in Cairo, in light of the costs of distribution, of Petrogas'
finances and of the cost of alternative fuels. The study would recommend the
best means of constructing incentives for gas use, especially by commercial
customers. The nature of Petrogas' gas sales contracts, particularly with
larger commercial customers, would also be addressed. The study would assess
the legal framework for these contracts and for Petrogas' operation and
formulate any required amendments.
G. Bank's Role in the Sector and Experience in Past Lending
3.23     The Bank's first lending operation in the gas subsector was the Gulf
of Suez Project (Credit 1732-EGT) approved in 1979 for the recovery of flared
associated gas and natural gas liquids. This project addressed critical
sector issues such as pricing, the exploration of new areas and the optimum
utilization of natural gas. The Cairo Gas Distribution Project approved in
1980 (Credit 1024-EGT) successfully assisted in establishing the first gas
distribution system in Egypt, supplying gas to the premium market of
residential and commercial consumers to replace high- ralued fuels such as LPG
and gas oil. Two other Bank-funded projects, Western Desert Gas Exploration
(Credit 1928-EGT) and Abu Qir Gas Development (Credit 2103-EGT), were
subsequently approved in 1981 and 1982. The objectives of both projects, to
develop additional natural gas supplies and to undertake studies aimed at
developing an appropriate gas development strategy, were fully achieved. In
addition, the Bank has contributed to the transfer of modern technology in
offshore operations, reserves management, process design and operations. The
physical implementation of all Bank projects in the subsector has been
satisfactory, with EGPC demonstrating a noteworthy capability for efficiency
in this area. In addition to gas subsector loans, the Bank has approved six
loans in the power subsector, the last of which (Loan No. 3103-EGT: Fourth
Power Project) included agreements for both electricity and petroleum product
prices (see para. 2.05).
3.24     On the policy front, the results have been mixed.  The prices of
energy in general, and petroleum products in particular, have been
unacceptably low, averaging less than 30 percent of their international
equivalents. This issue resulted in the Bank's reluctance to finance projects
in this subsector during most of the 1980s. The recent resolution of this



- 14 -
issue, with a monitorable action plan of substantial, front-loaded price
increases by the Government, has permitted the resumption of lending to the
subsector.
3.25     Project Performance and Audit Reports (PPAhs) cite the following
lessons learned: (i) the resolution of sector issues must be sought through
projects; (ii) the packaging of works must be done so that contractual
responsibilities are properly secured with a view to avoiding time slippages;
(iii) the project scope must be sufficiently comprehensive to ensure that the
envisioned benefits can be achieved; and (iv) an appropriate incentive system
must be in place for the benefits to accrue. The proposed project has taken
these lessons into account in project design.
3.26     The Bank's presence in this sector is designed to help the Government
achieve a number of objectives: (i) to assist the development of a sound
investment strategy in the sector; (ii) to design an energy pricing system
that provides incentives to minimize the cost of energy supply and addresses
Egypt's twin problem of current account and budget deficits; (iii) to develop
infrastructure and policies that support private sector involvement in the
sector; (iv) to address the accelerated adjustment of the prices of heavily
subsidized energy products, particularly LPG, gas oil and natural gas; and
(v) to maximize the environmentally mitigative features of investments.
Specifically, the Bank has actively promoted the adjustment of both the level
and structure of energy prices to address the problem of budget support and to
establish incentives for the consumer to use the least-cost fuel as well as to
conserve energy. The development of infrastructure to debottleneck the
transport of gas to market is designed to enhance private sector participation
in exploration and development by ensuring a market for output. The resultant
increase in gas supply also decreases the use of higher cost fuels and
mitigates air pollution problems in urban areas.
IV. THE BORROWER
A.  Statutory Functions
4.01     The main functions of EGPC under Law 20 are to: (i) draw up a general
policy for converting and granting concessions (for oil and gas exploration)
and to negotiate and prepare concession agreements for the approval of the
Government; (ii) supervise the exploration and exploitation activities of the
oil companies engaged in the search for oil and the productior. of oil and/or
natural gas; (iii) plan, coordinate and control the activities of various
affiliates in the production, refining, transportation and distribution of
petroleum products; (iv) undertake the export of crude oil and petroleum
products and effect similar imports in order to balance domestic requirements;
(v) determine, in conjunction with other competent authorities, the pricing of



- 15 -
petroleum products;' and (vi) manage the operation and management of all
subsidiary companies.
B. Cauital Structure
4.02     EGPC capital (300 million Egyptian pounds) is invested in the capital
of its subsidiaries and in joint companies established for oil production with
foreign partners. Funds available to EGPC for its operation consist of a
share in the profits of subsidiaries in the petroleum sector, a share in the
net profit of the joint companies and profits arising out of supervision and
administrative fees. In addition, EGPC secures funds from the Government in
the form of loans. EGPC, as a distinct corporate entity, can, and has,
borrowed from external financial agencies. Total EGPC capital and reserves
now approach LE 5,000 million.
C. Or2anization and Management
4.03     EGPC is managed by an executive chairman assisted by eleven deputy
chairmen in charge of exploration, production, planning and projects, natural
gas. operations, foreign and joint venture companies, financial and economic
affairs, internal trade, foreign trade, administration and legal affairs and
petroleum agreements. The chairman functions as the chairman of the board and
the deputy chairmen as ex-officio members. Five chairmen from the affiliated
companies, one of whom is from PETROGAS, are also nominated to the board
(Annex II).
4.04     EGPC has been vested with considerable autonomy.  Within the
framework of general policies set by the Supreme Petroleum Council and
stipulated in the company's statutes, its board is competent to issue any
decree it deems suitable, any governmental regulation to the contrary
notwithstanding. It is, therefore, competent to establish its own internal
regulations for financial, administrative and technical management and also to
dictate its own norms regarding conditions of employment, remuneration, etc.
EGPC is, however, obliged to consider policy directives issued by and
otherwise function under the guidance of the Supreme Petroleum Council, which
is presided over by the Minister of Petroleum and for which EGPC functions As
a secretariat. Furthermore, all resolutions of the board have to be approved
by the Minister of Petroleum.
4.05     At the senior level, EGPC management is competent and experienced in
various aspects of the oil and gas industry. It has, over the last two
decades, expanded its marketing organization to meet growing demands, set up
/ While Law 20 vests EGPC with the authority to determine prices, in effect,
prices have been fixed through governmental decree; EGPC has, at best, an
advisory role.



- 16 -
and rehabilitated a number of refineries, and laid an extensive network of
crude oil, petroleum products and gas pipelines. It has created within its
organization a specialized group which has successfully negotiated production-
sharing agreements with foreign oil companies. Separately, EGPC has developed
nonassociated gas fields within Egypt and linked them to the market. While
foreign partners are largely responsible for the production of oil, EGPC
closely monitors their exploration and development programs.
D. Functional Structure
4.06     EGPC functions as a holding company and performs the various
finctions with which it is charged through 18 fully and partly owned
subsidiaries and through 20 joint-operating companies formed in partnership
with the foreign oil companies. These companies have been set up on a
functional basis and relate to the following sectors.
4.07     Exploration and Productio .  All work relating to geophysical surveys
and exploration are carried out by the General Petroleum Company (GPC), a
fully owned subsidiary of EGPC; joint venture companies, such as WEPCO and
SUCO; and IOCs. These IOCs, under the terms of their agreements, are obliged
to spend a fixed amount on exploration and surveys during the primary
exploration period. The annual work program of each of these companies is
drawn up under its concession agreement, which is reviewed and approved by a
joint committee consisting of a representative of EGPC and of the company.
Once a commercial discovery has been made, a nonprofit operating company,
which operates and works the concession on behalf of the partners in
accordance with the terms of the concession agreement, is formed. EGPC comes
in as an equal partner at the development stage.
4.08     Refining and Processing.  All refining and processing of petroleum
products is undertaken by seven fully owned subsidiaries of EGPC, namely, the
El Nasr Petroleum Company, the Alexandria Petroleum Company, the Suez Oil
Processing Company, the Alameria Oil Refining Company, the Cairo Oil Refining
Company, the Assiut Oil Refining Company and the Egypt Petrochemical Company.
4.09     Petroleum Pipeline.  Egypt's extensive ,ietwork of pipelines for
transporting crude oil, petroleum products and gas is owned and operated by
the Petroleum Pipelines Company (PPC), a fully owned subsidiary of EGPC.
4.10     Distribution.  The marketing and distribution of petroleum products
is undertaken by two subsidiaries, namely the Misr Petroleum Company and the
Cooperative Petroleum Company. These companies control the major share of the
market, though the marketing of petroleum products is also being undertaken by
three foreign companies. Natural gas and LPG are distributed by the Petroleum
Gases Company (PETROGAS), another subsidiary formed in 1978. Small private
firms are also itnvolved with local LPG distribution.
4.11     Accounts and Audit.  EGPC, like other Egyptian public undertakings,
follows the "Unified Accounting System," which was established 'uy a



- 17 -
Presidential Decree in 1966. This accounting system was evolved, inter alia,
with a view to establishing a uniform denomination of accounts and accounting
rules, definitions and terminology. Similar and compatible financial
statements for capital operations, current operations and cash flows for all
public sectors undertakings have been stipulated by the system. EGPC is
required to prepare detailed accounts and financial statements for periodic
review in addition to following a stipulated financial policy. EGPC
undertakes detailed internal auditing through its Department of Internal
Control and the Department for Financial Evaluation. While the former audits
all financial operations within EGPC, the latter is responsible for checking
and evaluating financial systems and procedures, not only of ECPC but also of
all affiliated companies. This latter department is responsible for assessing
and evaluating the efficiencies of various units operated by EGPC and its
affiliates and for evolving improved systems and procedures.
4.12        Insurance.  EGPC subsidiaries carry adequate comprehensive
insurance on major facilities and equipment against fire, explosions, damage
and theft. Insurance agreements are entered into directly by each company
with insurance companies within Egypt, which are, in part, reinsured by
foreign insurance companies.
E.  Petroleum Gas Company (PETROGAS)
4.13        BackSround.  Petroleum Gas Company (PETROGAS) is a wholly owned
subsidiary of EGPC. It was incorporated in September 1978 and assumed all
functions relating to processing, distributing and marketing LPG, as well as
to promoting and distributing natural gas. Accordingly, Petrogas stores,
fills, transports and markets about 850,000 tons of LPG per year; enters into
selling arrangements and collects sale proceeds for about 7.8 million cu.m. of
natural gas distributed per year through the Petroleum Pipeline Company's
grid; and constructs and maintains the Greater Cairo City gas distribution
system. The component of the project described as the "Greater Cairo Gas
Distribution Component" would be entrusted by EGPC to Petrogas for
implementation, as was the Bank-supported Cairo Gas Distribution Project
(Credit 1024-EGT), which was successfully completed in mid-1984.
4.14        CaRital Structure.  The authorized capital of the company, as of
June 30, 1990, was LE 156 million. The long-term debt of the company at the
end of FY90 was US$33.3 million in foreign debt (IDA credit, on-lent to
Petrogas at a commercial interest rate) and LE 4 million in local debt.
4.15        Organization.  Petrogas has an executive chairman, who is also the
chairman of the board. The board has eight other members, four appointed by
the prime minister and four elected by the labor syndicate. EGPC is not
represented on the board, but the chairman of Petrogas is a member of the EGPC
board. This arrangement provides a close link between Petrogas and EGPC and
enables the EGPC board to keep itself apprised of Petrogas activities.
Furthermore, EGPC reviews the company's performance twice a year in the
general body meeting. The general body also approves the company's operating
and capital budgets. Petrogas, in practice, functions on a "commission"



- 18 -
basis, as do the other fully held subsidiaries of EGPC. The general body
meetings, therefore, assume a tremendous importance since at these meetings
Petrogas's projected and past costs are scrutinized and purchase prices
payable by Petrogas are determined, so as to allow due margins.
4.16     Petrogas has developed into an efficient gas utility company, capable
of expanding the city gas distribution network with its own personnel, albeit
with gradually diminishing technical assistance from its foreign technical
collaborators (British Gas and William Press, who provided technical support
to the IDA-financed Cairo Gas Distribution Project). Petrogas has recently
developed in-house computer systems for its accounts, inventory and other
management information. Developwents are ongoing, with plans to use local
consultants for further systems development, including a linkup witt. the EGPC
computers. Computerization of commercial services is also underway with eight
on-line customer support terminals ready to be installed once the new building
is commissioned.
4.17     Insurance.  Petrogas covers all of its major facilities and equipment
against fire, explosions, damage and theft through comprehensive insurance
schemes. It has entered into specific insurance agreements for its natural
gas operations, including third-party liability. The insurers, who are public
sector insurance companies, have, in turn, reinsured outside the country.
4.18     Pr-oject Enmineering and ImRlementation.  The Natural Gas Department
of Petrogas (see Annex IV) is responsible for gas distribution operations, as
well as for project planning and development, including market surveys,
conceptual design, and project management and supervision. Egypt Gas, with
assistance from its foreign partner, undertakes detailed design and
procurement services as well as the construction of networks, the installation
of consumer piping and the conversion of appliances. Under the ongoing
arrangement between Petrogas and Egypt Gas, the Cairo gas distribution system
has expanded to its present size on a technically sound basis.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Objectives and ScoRe
5.01     The primary objectives of the project are to increase the use of a
nontradeable commodity, natural gas; to release tradeable petroleum products
for expoLt; and to decrease the environmental impact of fuel use. The project
would not only focus on increasing the supply of natural gas by reducing
flaring and debottlenecking the supply constraints of transporting gas to
market, but also would provide the infrastructure required to maximize the
value added of the fuels being substituted. It would enable the delivery of a
clean burning fuel to the Greater Cairo area to displace petroleum products,
thus mitigating air pollution problems. The institution building efforts for
Petrogas initiated in the previous Bank loan would be further enhanced to
increase its commercialization. The project scope consists of: (i) the
Greater Cairo gas distribution component designed to increase the gas delivery



- 19 -
capacity of the existing gas distribution network in the Greater Cairo area;
(ii) the Trans Gulf gas component designed to increase natural gas supply from
the Gulf of Suez area to the national grid; and (iii) the training component
which would address increased commercialization of Petrog6s associated with
(i).
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
5.02     The Bank's country assistance strategy for Egypt calls for lending
for gas investment projects because of the positive impact freeing oil for
export has on the balance of payments. Energy pricing has been a cornerstone
of the Bank's dialogue with the Government, in view of its importance for
energy conservation, budget support and the current account balance. In 1989
the Government agreed to increase petroleum product prices to the equivalent
of internationally traded products and to increase electricity prices to LRMC
by June 1995. The first steps toward achieving this goal were implemented in
1989 by increasing weighted average petroleum product prices by 16 percent and
electricity prices by 30 percent. In March 1990, the energy price adjustment
agreement with the Government was upgraded to include annual targets for
weighted average petroleum product prices (starting at 45 percent in Hay 1990
and increasing at least 11 percentage points each year thereafter to reach 100
percent by June 1995) and electricity prices (starting at 47 percent of LRMC
in May 1990 and increasing by 10-12 percentage points of LRMC each year
thereafter to reach 100 percent of LRMC by June 1995). This program of energy
price adjustments will not ornly enhance the financial health of the sector but
will also have a stAstantial impact on the budget deficit. Transfers from the
energy sector to Ow- budget in both FY91 and FY92 are expected to increase by
about LE 2 billior (about 2 percent of GDP) in both years. Similar increases
in transfers to the budget are projected for the following year. In May 1990,
the Government fulfllled the first target by increasing weighted average
petroleum product prices by 44 percent and electricity prices by 38 percent.
In May 1991, the Gov Ynment met the agreed upon next step of price increases
by increasing weighted average petroleum product prices by 52 percent and
electricity prices by 50 percent. The Government also addressed the problem
of the structure of entvgy prices in addition to the level of subsidies to the
sector by targeting pvcdLcts with the highest level of subsidy.  Thus, the
Bank has already been .ffective in persuading the Government to move faster in
setting price incentives that improve the attractiveness of using least cost
fuels. The rationale for Bank involvement in this project centers on
supporting the Government's energy price reform program, and acting as a
catalyst to attract co-financing for investments in the gas subsector which
complement private sector initiatives and mitigate environmental problems.



- 20 -
C.  Pro let Descripton
5.03     The project would consist of the following components:
(a) the extension of the existing gas distribution network in the
Greater Cairo area to new premium markets, including an estimated
additional 235,000 households; 5,000 commercial and 22 industrial
customers; and related training;
(b) the delivery of an additional 70 mmcfd of natural gas from the
Gulf of Suez/Sinai area to the national grid; and
(c) training for Petrogas staff to increase its commercialization.
5.04     Greater Cairo Gas Distribution Component.  The GCGDC would provide
gas to an estimated additional 235,000 households, 5,000 commercial and 22
industrial consumers in several areas both in the east and west of Cairo. As
shown in Annex V, distribution would include 35,000 residential infill and
3,000 commercial infill consumers to be connected in existing areas and the
balance in the new areas. These areas have been selected on the basis of a
market survey carried out jointly by Petrogas and their consultants.
5.05     The project would consist of integrated components, including the
construction of about 30 km of large diameter steel mains and about 900 km of
medium and low pressure polyethylene piping; two pressure reducing stations;
about 55 regulating stations and related service connections; and metering and
carcassing and burner conversion equipment to supply natural gas to the
consumers. The project focusses on supplying gas to areas with a high
concentration of large commercial consumers, such as Garden City and Pyramids,
as well as on supplying gas to industries located ir13ide Greater Cairo in
order to maximize the favorable environmental impact and the return on capital
employed. The project includes the formulation of a gas market development
strategy to identify and propose necessary measures for developing modern
operational facilities such as a supervisory control and data acquisition
system (SCADA), meter-proving facilities, training centers, computerized
emergency and customer services, cost accounting and inventory control.
Furthermore, training programs for technical staff on specialized fields such
as safety, gas sales engineering, cathodic protection, market analysis,
distribution network analysis and design, measurement and conversion would be
provided for. Petrogas has agreed to assign a training officer prior to the
selection of consultants so that follow-up on the training program could be
assured; this officer would be responsible for the coordination of Petrogas'
gas marketing development (terms of reference are shown in Annex VII).
Petrogas would also establish facilities for a training center.
5.06     Trans Gulf Gas Component.  The project would gather about 70 mmscf/d
of natural gas (about 10 percent of FY90 average production rates) from the
October fields in the Gulf of Suez and the Belayim fields in the Sina, area
and transmit it to the grid for downstream use. Gas is currently being flared
because of insufficient compressor capacity and pipeline linkages. The



- 21 -
proposed project would include the addition of a new compressor station at the
Belayim fields and a pipeline from the Sinai area to the October field, where
a new offshore template would be conq;tructed. This platform would be
connected to an exis ing October platform, where added compressors would
accommodate the additional flow of gas from these fields through an existing
pitDaline to the west bank of the Gulf of Suez. Additional processing
tacilities at the Ras Bakr Gas Processing Plant would treat and compress the
increased gas supply for sale in the national grid. The capacity of the
existing Ras Shokeir pipeline would be increased to accommodate the increased
gas supply as the existing pipeline is operating at full capac'ty. EGPC would
construct this facility simultaneously with the proposed Trans Gulf Gas
Component. Technical details regarding this Component are included in Annex
VI.
D. Cost Estimates
5.07     The total project cost is estimated to be US$285.5 million of which
59 percent, amounting to US$169 million, would be in foreign exchange. A
summary of cost estimates for the principal components of the project is shown
below and detailed estimates for the Cairo Gas Distribution and Trans Gulf
components are given in Annexes V and VI, respectively. The base cost is in
December 1990 prices and was calculated using recent procurement material and
market prices. These estimates are considered to be reasonable for this type
of project. Physical contingencies for the GCGDC are 6.5 percent for
materials and 6.5 percent for engineering and construction services because of
the relative uncertainty of the latter. The physical contingencies for the
Trans Gulf Gas component are estimated at 6.5 percent based on the information
prepared to date. The price contingencies are based on inflation of foreign
costs of 3.4 percent per annum and the following local cost inflation
estimates:
FY91     FY92     FY93      FY94     FY95     FY96     FY97
20%      28%      15%        9%       6%       5%       5%



- 22 -
1st10t2d Costs
(US$ Nittion)
Foreign
8 X of
1LnGAi  forefn  Total  Locjt  Forefan  Total   Totat
----(millions of LE) ----   ---(millions of US$)---
Greter Cairo Gas Distribution Cotponent
Naterials                         37.9   191.9  229.8  13.4   67.8   81.2   83.5
Construction                     191.9    6S.9  257.8  67.8   23.3   91.1   25.6
Tehnical Services and Training    12.5    22.6   35.1   4.4    8.0   12.4   64.5
Base Cost                  242.2   280.5  522.7  85.6   99.1   184.7   53.7
Tr"n Gultf Gas CoWqonent
Equipmsnt and Materials           13.3    90.0  103.3   4.7   31.8   36.5   87.1
Construction                       5.1    15.0   20.1   1.8    5.3    7.1   74.6
Technical Services and Training    5.9    18.4   24.3   2.1    6.5    8.6   75.6
Base Cost                   24.3   123.4  147.7   8.6   43.6   52.2   83.5
Physical Contingenefos               22.6    21.5   44.1   8.0    7.6   15.6   48.7
Price Contingencies                  40.5    44.1    84.6  14.3   15.6   29.9   52.2
Total Project Cost               329.7   469.5  799.2  116.5  165.9  282.4   58.7
Interest During Construction (IDC)  _.0    _.8    8.8   0.0   _.1           3.1   100.0
Total Project Cost . IOC         329.7   478.3  808.0  116.5  169.0  285.5   59.2
an=35   3=53   3===   ===    ==    =-Y
E.  Financing Plan
5.08      The proposed Bank loan of US$84 million would finance 49 percent of
the foreign exchange requirements of the project. The proposed loan would be
made to EGPC, guaranteed by the Government. The loan would finance materials
required for the GCGDC and gas compressors, gas treatment facilities and an
offshore template for the Trans Gulf Gas component. EGPC would on-lend US$48
million of the US$84 million to Petrogas for the GCGDC through a subsidiary
loan agreement. The loan to Petrogas would carry the same terms as the Bank
loan to EGPC. Petrogas would bear the full foreign exchange and interest rate
risks on the portion of the loan allocated to finance the GCGDC. The European
Investment Bank would co-finance 25 million ECUs (about US$33 million) of the
GCGDC on a parallel financing basis. Conclusion of the EIB Loan Agreement
with EGPC would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The remainder of the
project would be financed by EGPC and Petrogas.



- 23 -
Project Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Local    Foreign    Total    % of Total
EGPC                        60.5       52.0     112.5        39.4
Petrogas                    56.0        0.0      56.0        19.6
IBRD                         0.0       84.0      84.0        29.4
EIB                          0.0-      33J_      33,0        11.4
Total                    116.5      169.0     285.5        100%
F. Procurement
5.09        All materials to be financed under the proposed Bank loan would be
procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for the procurement of
goods.  All major packages of materials would be procured following the
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Local manufacturers
competing under ICB would be eligible for a 15 percent preference margin or
the import duty applicable to nonexempt importers, whichever is lower. All
bidding packages for materials estimated to cost US$2 million equivalent or
more and all packages (instrumentation and control equipment for compressors
and gas treatment equipment) to be procured through Limited International
Bidding (LIB) would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documents; this would represent more than 70 percent of the loan amount. In
addition, the first two packages, regardless of value, would be subject to the
Bank's prior review. Procurement arrangements for the Trans Gulf Gas
Component would include longer lead time equipment such as compressor station,
dehydration and refrigeration equipment and the platform template equipment
and materials. All major packages of material, equipment and services for the
Trans Gulf Gas Component would be procured follouing ICB procedures except for
the following: (a) contracts for equipment and inspection and similar
services needed for offshore operations, and which do not exceed or aggregate
of US$8.0 million, may be awarded in accordance with the Bank's procurement
guidelines for LIB; and (b) contracts for the equipment and materials for the
platform template that are proprietary, or contracts to ensure standardization
and compatibility with the existing equipment and facilities, which do not
exceed an aggregate value of US$4.0 million, may be procured by direct
contracting under the terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Details of
procurement arrangements are included in Annexes V and VI for the GCGDC and
Trans Gulf Component, respectively, and summarized in the Procurement Table.
For consulting services relating to training, Petrogas would provide a short-
list of consultants according to the Bank guidelines. Selection of
consultants would conform to the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers in Bank-financed projects.



- 24 -
Procurement Table
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
ICB  LZ  LIB      Other jj  Total Cost
Greater-Cairo Gas Distribution
Co9monent
Steel pipes, P.E. pipes and                                    24.6       24.6
fittings
Network regulating stations                                     7.5         7.5
Customer meters & regulators             18.6                   1.4       20.0
(18.3)                           (18.3)
Miscellaneous network fittings _/        28.9                              28.9
(28.6)                           (28.6)
Consulting services                                           140.4      140.4
Training                                                        1.3        1.3
(1.2)      (1.2)
Subtotal                              47.5                175.2       222.7
(46.9)                (1.2)      (48.1)
Trans Gulf Gas Component
Gas surveys                                                  0.4           0.4
Compressors and
associated equipment                   10.0      4.0       2.5          16.5
(10.0)   (4.0)                   (14.0)
Platform template                         9.5                 9.3         18.8
(9.5)              (2.0)       (11.5)
Submarine pipeline                                            2.2          2.2
Gas treatment equipment                   4.4      4.0        5.0         13.4
& related services                     (4.4)   (4.0)       (2.0)       (10.4)
Construction and consulting                                   8.9          8.9
services
Subtotal                              23.9      8.0      28.3          60.2
(23.9)   (8.0)      (4.0)        (35.9)
TOTAL                                 71.4      8.0     203.5         282.9
(70.8)   (8.0)    (5.2)         (84.0)
Note:
U Figures in parentheses to be financed by the Bank.
2L The components to be cofinanced by EIB (US$33 million) are given under
other.
a/ Consists of 15 small packages.



- 25 -
G.  Disbursement
5.10     The Bank loan would be disbursed for the items indicated in the
procurement section (para. 5.09). The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed
over a period of six years (FY92-FY97) on the following basis:
(a) 100% of the foreign exchange component of the materials for the
GCGDC including customer meters and miscellaneous network fittings;
(b) 100% of the foreign exchange component for training in the GCGDC;
and
(c) 100% of the foreign exchange component of the gas compressors and
auxiliary equipment, gas treatment equipment and platform template
for the Trans Gulf Gas component.
A detailed schedule of disbursement for the GCGDC is in Annex V, and the
schedule for the Trans Gulf Gas component is in Annex VI. The proposed
schedule for the Trans Gulf Gas component is shorter than average for energy
projects in Egypt. However, it is considered feasible given the high priority
EGPC has assigned to this component and EGPC success in implementing similar
projects in the past. The summary of expected disbursements is indicated
below.
USS Million
£92~ FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97
Greater Cairo Gas Distribution
-omponent
Incremental                            1.2   10.8   10.7   10.8   11.3    3.3
Cumulative                             1.2   12.0   22.7   33.5   44.8   48.1
Trans Gulf Gas Component
Incremental                            6.5   24.7    4.7    0.0    0.0    0.0
Cumulative                             6.5   31.2   35.4   35.9   35.9   35.9
Total Incremental                      7.7   35.5   15.3   10.8   11.3    3.4
Cumulative                      7.7   43.2   58.5   69.3   80.6   84.0
Percentage                       9%    51%    70%    83%    96%   100%



- 26 -
5.11     Retroactive Financing and Advance Contracting.  Retroactive financing
of up to US$5 million would be allowed to cover expenditures incurred for the
Trans Gulf Gas Project to facilitate the accelerated timetable proposed by
EGPC. Disbursements would only be for contracts entered into after December
15, 1990.
5.12     In order to enable EGPC and Petrogas to effectively implement the
project and to ensure prompt payments to contractors and consultants, the Bank
would advance funds as needed to a special account to be opened at a
commercial bank in Egypt for a maximum riount of US$5.0 million; this is
expected to cover the Bank's share of eligible expenditures over a period of
three months. The account would be denominated in US dollars and replenished
against withdrawal applications. Applications with appropriate supporting
documentation would be submitted when approximately half of the maximum
allocated amount of the account was spent. All disbursements under the
project would be made against standard documentation.
H. Monitorina and Supervision
5.13     A project launch mission is planned to commence after loan signing.
Because of the complexity of the project, which deals with two executing
agencies with components focussing in technically disparate fields (gas
collection and gas distribution), an average of at least 16 staff-weeks per
year would be necessary to allow biannual supervision to monitor project
activities while both the GCGDC and Trans Gulf Gas Component are active, and
12 staff-weeks per year thereafter as outlined in Annex XI. The supervision
missions would include a gas (upstream) specialist to review the technical
aspects of the Trans Gulf Gas Component, a gas (downstream) specialist to
review the technical aspects of the GCGDC and a financial analyst. The
respective Project Implementation Units in EGPC and Petrogas would be
responsible for preparing documents for Bank supervision missions. EGPC and
Petrogas would be asked to submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports
during project implementation, and prepare and furnish to the Bank, within
four months after project completion, a completion report including a
reassessment of the project costs and benefits.
I. Environment
5.14     Environmental concerns in Egypt, and particularly in Cairo, are of a
high priority. The proposed solutions for minimizing the impact of fuel use
on the environment are generally in consonance with prudent energy sector
operation as they decrease the cost of energy supply. Greater efficiency
decreases the use of fuels and, hence, decreases the impact of their use.
However, some specific areas are of particular concern. The air pollution
problem is particularly acute in and around Cairo. To the extent possible,
existing plants near Cairo should be converted to gas-fired operation to limit



- 27 -
the S0O and N0O output, a measure that would also have a beneficial economic
impact. Concurrently, decreasing fuel oil use at existing dual-fired plants
would also mitigate the air quality problem. This project would increase the
availability of natural gas to the National Grid by decreasing flaring in the
Gulf of Suez and providing the infrastructure to debottleneck the transport of
associated gas.
5.15     The proposed project would also make natural gas available to
industries in the greater Cairo area that are currently using high sulfur fuel
oil. Such interfuel substitution would have a considerable impact on local
air pollution problems caused by the high level of pollutants in emissions and
the low height of the chimneys. Decreasing the delivery of LPG bottles would
decrease traffic congestion in the streets of Cairo and air pollution from
vehicle exhaust.
5.16     In addition to the direct benefits of using a clean-burning fuel, the
distribution extension is expected to replace some of the gas supplied by a
small manufactured gas plant (Septia). Not only is this plant uneconomic1,
but it also is reported to have pipeline losses of 40-50 percent because of
the age (70 years) of some of the equipment. The pipeline losses not only
affect the economic viability of the operation but, more seriously, also
result in the release of toxic gases into the environment. Increasing the use
of natural gas at the expense of this plant would enhance the economic
viability of the sector and lessen the environmental problems associated with
the manufactured gas plant.
5.17     Environmental and Safety Review of GCGDC.  The existing construction
contract between Petrogas and Egypt Gas provides necessary codes of practice
and standards for the safe implementation of the project. The high pressure
steel main would be constructed in utility corridors and no special right of
way would be required except a small area (40 by 40 meters) for a pressure
regulating station. The steel main would not pass close to the Pyramids (the
closest point would be about 1.5 km away). A special permit for trenching
would be obtained from the local authorities and the Egyptian Department of
Antiquities if determined necessary by the local authorities. Petrogas has
operational safety regulations and six safety engineers who send regular
safety reports to the Mlnistry of Labor. The safety record of Petrogas has
been satisfactory; however, a safety reporting system would be established as
part of this project. At the time of negotiations assurances from Petrogas
were obtained to implement this system by December 31, 1992.
5.18     Environmental and Safety Review of Trans Gulf Gas Component.  The
proposed project is an extension to existing facilities in the Gulf of Suez
and, hence, does not pose a major potential impact to the environment. The
onshore pipelines would not have any significant environmental impact as they
would be buried and would include adequate safeguards against leaks and
ruptures. The offshore pipelines would be designed in such a manner so as to
J/ The manufactured gas process is based on using naphtha as a feedstock,
which is substantially more expensive than the cost of natural gas supply.



- 28 -
avoid environmentally sensitive areas. Standard international petroleum
industry practices and codes would be followed for the design of all offshore
and onshore facilities. EGPC would undertake an environmental review of the
proposed detailed design of the facilities and review the proposals with the
Bank in order to address environmental concerns. In addition, EGPC would
furnish the Bank with updated quarterly environmental reports indicating their
compliance with environmental standards and practices.
J. Project Management and Implementation
5.19     Greater Cairo Gas Development Component.        -ogas would provide the
conceptual design and project management and supervis,on and would have
overall responsibility for implementing the component. Egypt Gas, as the sole
contractor, would perform detailed engineering, construction and procurement
services. Petrogas, with the assistance of Egypt Gas, has been able to expand
the First Cairo Gas Distribution Project to a sizable network and has operated
it safely for the past eight years. Based on this experience, Petrogas and
Egypt Gas have demonstrated their capability to implement the proposed project
within the six-year schedule. However, the existing contract between Petrogas
and Egypt Gas is on a turnkey basis and needs to be modified so that the Bank
can finance the procurement of material. As a condition of loan
effectiveness, a revised contract satisfactory to the Bank would be signed.
5.20     The current organizational structure of Petrogas satisfies the
concerns raised by the Bank in the First Cairo Gas Distribution Project. As
shown in Annex IV, LPG and natural gas operations are now split, each headed
by a general manager who reports directly to a chairman. The natural gas
department has been strengthened to respond to Petrogas' increased operations.
The Gas Department of Petrogas is responsible for the natural gas operations
of the companv and would also be responsible for the proposed project's
implementation. This department has now expanded to a large operational and
project development unit with about 1,200 staff. The department has two
operating units, one in East Cairo and the other in West Cairo, which are
responsible for the operation and maintenance of the networks as well as for
customer emergency service. A Project Development Department is responsible
for the planning and development of new projects covering market surveys,
basic design, cost estimates and project management and supervision. This
department is using computerized techniques for network analysis and load
forecasting.
5.21     Petrogas has been successful in developing a sizeable market in the
residential sector in Cairo, but gas consumption in the commercial and
industrial sectors has been minimal. Through a gas market development study
(Annex VII), strategies would be reviewed in order to increase the penetration
of gas in the commercial and industrial markets. As part of this strategy, a
core of engineers would be established to promote gas sales in the commercial
and industrial markets. The study would also provide assistance for Petrogas
in conducting a new detailed market survey in Greater Cairo. A permanent
small unit would be established in Petrogas to continuously review and analyze



- 29 -
the gas market and its impact on other fuels. This unit would initiate
necessary policies and promote viable projects for the efficient expansion of
the natural gas market.
5.22     To meet the training needs outlined above, Petrogas would:  (i)
establish a gas marketing unit within its organization and assign key staff to
it by June 30, 1992; and (ii) carry out and complete a gas market development
study by December 31, 1992, according to TORs satisfactory to the Bank. The
study is expected to start by October 1991.
5.23     Trans Gulf Gas Component.  EGPC would be the implementing agency for
the proposed Trans Gulf Gas Project. A Project Implementation Unit would be
established within the Gas Department for the purpose of project control. The
basis of this unit was established at the time of the feasibility study with
projecc implementation guidance provided by the Gas Production General
Manager. The detailed design, procurement and project management would be
undertaken by ENPPI, the consulting firm responsible for the feasibility
study. Given the extensive experience of EGPC and of the consultants, project
implementation risks are expected to be minimal.
5.24     The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
6.01     The financial organization of the gas subsector is essentially that
of a single profit center (EGPC) with numerous functional subsidiaries, which
operate on a cost basis. EGPC acts as the financial coordinator and
implicitly sets transfer prices between subsidiaries (functions), which cover
costs (including depreciation) plus a commission. The Petroleum Pipeline
Company receives sufficient commissions to earn a 6 percent return on assets
while Petrogas operates on a zero profit basis. Project funding, to the
extent internal funds are not available, is arranged by EGPC.
A. Historic EGPC Financial Performance
6.02     The financial performance of EGPC has historically been secure due to
the fact that, as the Government's rent collector in the petroleum subsector,
EGPC has low costs relative to revenues. EGPC has little debt (US$300 million
equivalent as of June 1990 or less than 10 percent of long-term capital) as
cash flow has generally been sufficient to cover investment requirements
(Table 1 outlines past EGPC performance, with details in Annex XII). EGPC
financial performance depends primarily on two factors: international and
domestic energy prices and the costs of production under concession
agreements. Traditional indicators of financial performance are generally
misleading because EGPC's acts as rent collector; as such, returns, self-
financing levels and debt service coverage are all very high. Nonetheless,
EGPC ha- experienced deteriorating profit levels over the past six years (net



- 30 -
profit as a percent of revenues fell to 21 percent in FY90 from 39 percent in
FY85) largely due to declining crude oil prices.
6.03        These conditions, compounded by the anticipated decline in oil
production levels and the rising cost of gas supply (which are payable in
foreign currency) could result in a net loss in the EGPC foreign currency
account during the next decade. The two avenues Egypt has to control these
problems are to increase domestic product prices (to increase revenues and
reduce demand) and to expand gas supply to substitute for exportable petroleum
products.
Table 1: Historic EGPC Income and Cash Flow
(millions LE)
Prelim.
FY85    FY86             FY88    FY89    FY90
Net Export Revenues/l    1,454       831     876   1,033      962   1,300
(percent of total)         43%     27%      28%     26%      24%     28%
Total Revenues            3,350   3,088   3,100   3,935   4,089   4,564
Op. Expenses              2.032   1,976   2.007   2.648   2.955   3.590
Net Profit                1,318   1,111   1,093   1,287   1,134       974
(percent)                  39%     36%      35%     33%      28%     21%
Internal Funds            1,833   1,606   1,604   1,847   1,608   1,469
Taxes & Profit Dist. A      81%      83%     76%      77%     74%     751
Net Internal Sources        355      273     387     419      412      368
External Sources             64       78      66      45        8     n.a.
Debt Service/2               15       22      30       67      64       76
Investments                 478      299     167     402      176     268
Self-Financing X/3         44%    129%    108%    107X       162%    104%
LI  Export revenues at petroleum sector exchange rate.
/t I'a all years, debt service coverage by internal funds exceeds 100 percent.
/3 The ratio of internal funds after surplus disposition, taxes, debt service
and working capital changes to three-year moving average capital
expenditures.
6.04        As a result of the energy price reform program, high export prices
of crude oil in FY91 and increases in supply of natural gas, EGPC's financial
position has improved substantially. This improvement has resulted in
increased transfers from EGPC to the budget of about LE 2 billion in FY91 and



- 31 -
EGPC PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENT
PeLyffneo Limited to MaX 40% of Revonues
13-                                          -  -  -
12-                                           -     
w      1
10--
-t  _  6  7 _
FY85  FY 37  FYb  Y1   FY3   F7               9
FY 36  FY i8  FY O0  FY 92      3 FYS Y13
Fiscal Year Cendino June 30)
& Staus auo 040s Revs  x Price Refam @40%  V Refcrm + Incr Gls
Figure 1
is forecast to increase by in excess of LE 2 billion in FY92. A similar
increase in transfer to the Government's budget is forecast for FY93 based
largely due to the energy price reform program. As Figure 3 indicates, the
domestic energy price increases and increased gas supply would continue to
have a considerable impact on the Government budget.
B. EGPC Accoupts and Audits
6.05 EGPC would be the executing agency for the Trans Gulf Gas Component. The
project is expected to cost approximately US$60.2 million including duties,
taxes and contingencies. The proposed Bank loan would fund material costs
totaling approximately US$34 million or 56 percent of the costs. This
represents a 12 percent increase in outstanding EGPC foreign debt and would
entail less than a 5 percent increase in total annual debt service. Should
domestic energy prices rise as agreed, EGPC is forecast to easily meet debt
service and investment obligations. EGPC accounts are subject to an annual
external audit by the Central Audit Organization. Aside from documentary
audits, this review is effected in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance
to ensure that expenditures are in accordance with authorized budgeted
amounts. EGPC would have the project accounts, its own accounts and financial
statements, and the accounts and financial statements of the affiliates that



- 32 -
executed the projects audited by independent auditors and would supply copies
of such statements to the Bank no later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year. The Special Account would also be reviewed by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. EGPC has agreed to maintain a debt service
coverage of at least 1.5, The Government, as guarantor, has agreed that it
would take all necessary actions to enable EGPC to achieve the financial goals
agreed to with the Bank.
C.  _istoric Petrot    i      a   erformancLe 
6.06     Given that Petrogas is a cost center, financial performance has been
determined by EGPC through commission levels, with net profit generally set to
be small. The overall sales margin has been stable at about 0.6 piastre/cubic
meter (in FY91 prices) over the past six years as shown in Table 2 (details in
Annex XIII). The margin for residential sales has, however, declined by over
70 percent in real terms since FY85. Overall returns on net (historic) fixed
assets are estimated to have been around 5 percent for the past six years.
However, on a revalued basis, the returns would have been negative. Self-
financing levels have been high in recent years, partly because investment
dropped sharply after FY86. Over the past four years, annual investment
declined from LE 125 million to an average of LE 88 million, in FY91 prices.
Table 2: Historic Petrogas Sales Margins
(piaster/cubic meter - mid 1990 prices)
Prelim.
FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
Total Gas Sales             0.7     0.6      0.6     0.7     0.7      0.6
Residential                23.7    17.4    15.8    10.8      8.7      6.8
Power/Industry              0.4     0.4     0.4      0.6     0.6      0.5
LPG Sales                   9.6     8.6      7.4     6.4     5.6      5.6
Historic Petrogas Cash Flows
(millions LE)
Internal Sources_l         22.0    27.2    29.5    30.4    34.9    42.9
of which gas              21%     26%     36%      69%     68%      70X
Taxes & Profit Dist. %      10%     18%      18%     23%     29%      34%
Net Internal Sources       19.9    22.4    24.1    23.5    24.7    28.5
External Sources           10.9    11.5      0.0     2.6     4.1      7.0
Debt Service                5.2     5.1      4.9     4.7     4.5      6.7
(coverage)e'               0.9     1.4     2.2      4.5     5.2     4.4
Investments                34.4    40.3    25.8    29.7    30.9    50.5
of which gas              76X     76%     65%      70%     67%      80%
(Self-financing %)/3        36%     61%     46%      73%    110%     60%
/1  Internal sources before interest and taxes.
Lg The ratio of internal gas operation funds before interest and taxes to
total debt service.
23 The ratio of internal funds after debt service and working capital changes
to three-year moving average capital expenditures.



- 33 -
D. Future Petrogas Investments and Financing
6.07     Petrogas will experience a substantial increase in investment and
sales activity over the next six years. The proposed GCGDC requires annual
investments of approximately 131 million LE (in FY91 prices), which is double
recent gas investment levels but comparable to levels experienced under the
first Cairo distribution project. In addition, Petrogas may require
substantial investments in LPG facilities in order to efficiently utilize
anticipated increases in supplies of LPG'. During a period of rapid expansion
of gas and LPG sales, the maintenance of adequate levels of working capital
will be important. Cash flow would, therefore, be the prime financial concern
of Petrogas over the project period. The proposed project would finance
foreign material costs totaling approximately US$67 million (before price
contingencies) or 36 percent of total project costs. Consumer contributions
are estimated to provide a further 5 percent of project costs. The remaining
financing must come from internal funds, local debt or shareholder
contributions.
6.08     A self-financing level of 25 percent is considered appropriate for
Petrogas at this stage of development. During a period of rapid growth,
higher levels would unduly penalize current consumers, while lower levels risk
delaying the project due to inadequate cash flow. The margins required to
achieve a 25 percent self-financing level are discussed below in light of
anticipated changes in petroleum product pricing in Egypt over the next five
years. Two price levels are important, consumer prices and transfer prices.
Consumer Gas Prices: For the purposes of financial projections, the
price for industrial and power sector gas sales was set to fuel oil
equivalent plus a small margin to cover working capital carrying
costs and contributions towards the network. Residential and
commercial prices were based upon fuel oil equivalent, plus a margin
sufficient to earn an 8 percent real return on capital, to a maximum
of LPG equivalence. LPG prices were assumed to reach 75 percent of
international prices by FY96, plus a distribution margin of US$30 per
tonne by FY96, and full economic costs of US$150 per tonne by June
1998.
Transfer Prices: The current transfer pricing regime is based on
zero profit margins and not on economic or market factors. With
respect to natural gas, the proper transfer price at the city gate
under current conditions is the fuel oil equivalent.
1/ LPG investments could exceed gas investments in some years based on capital
costs of LE 525 per incremental tonne of demand, which has been the average
over the past six years, including adjustment to official versus preferred
petroleum sector exchange rates.



- 34 -
6.09        The operating margin resulting from the pricing conditions
described above would be about 0.7 piastres/m3 in mid-1990 prices. This would
be sufficient to ensure at least a 25 percent self-financing level during the
implementation phase of the GCGDC. This implies that until the end of FY95
(while consumer petroleum product prices remain subsidized) Petrogas input
prices may be required to remain up to 5 percent less than the fuel oil
equivalent.
6.10        The remaining project costs (after Bank financing and consumer
contributions) could be funded by local debt or shareholder contributions. In
taking on the proposed loan, debt as a percent of long term capital associated
with revalued gas assets would rise from 10 percent' currently to 20 percent
by FY96 (see Appendix XIII for Petrogas Financial Projections). On an
historic cost basis, leverage would reach almost 40 percent by FY96. Typical
allowable levels of debt in North American gas utilities are generally between
40 percent and 60 percent. Given that Petrogas is a relatively young utility
and expected to grow rapidly over the next five years, additional leverage
does not appear prudent in the near term. The potential for cash flow
shortages is great due to rising working capital needs and the fact that
annual debt service is estimated to increase by a factor of 5 in real terms by
FY97. This leaves equity contributions as the only remaining source of funds.
EGPC would provide the residual project costs in the form of direct equity
and/or reduced shareholder payments. In total, 59 percent of project costs
must come from internal funds and equity, implying total annual contributions
of approximately LE 83 million (FY91 prices) from FY93 to FY96. Expected
project funding is summarized in Table 3 below. To ensure that the financing
from internally generated funds would be established, Petrogas has agreed that
a 25 percent self-financing ratio would be maintained by Petrogas on its gas
operations and that Petrogas' debt service coverage ratio would exceed 1.5 to
ensure corporate creditworthiness.
I/ Based upon revalued capital, assuming an equal split between foreign and
local costs for gas assets.



- 35 -
Tajle 3: Cairo Gas Distribution: Summary Project Sources
and Applications of Funds
(millions of LE in constant FY91 prices)
IOtL  (X)    F92Z  FY9. =  L24  F9 E    Y E9k E2
Sources
Internal Fundstl  169   26X       0    27    36    37    30    39
IBRD Debt         234   361       6    59    55    57    57      0
Consumers          36    5X       0     8     8     8      8     7
Equity            217   33X       0    51    43    48    59    18
Total             657  1001       6   144   142   149   153    63
Applications
Investments       657  100l       6   144   142   149   153    63
L1 Internal funds available after covering debt service and working capital
requirements.
E. Petrogas Accounts and Audit
6.11      The LPG and gas operations of Petrogas are inherently different.  In
the future, gas will increasingly compete with LPG for markets and internal
resources. At the recommendation of the Bank, Petrogas separated the
technical operations of gas and LPG. However, the financial operations are
still not formally separated. During project appraisal, it was recomended
that Petrogas consider creating separate organizations at some point in time.
As a first step, Petrogas would maintain separate accounts for LPG and natural
gas and furnish copies of financial statements no later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year, as well as budget forecasts for the following
fiscal year. This process would be supported through the structuring of loan
covenants, which would focus on achieving a 25 percent self-financing
capability on gas operations as separate from LPG operations. Petrogas
prepares full accounts of its financial position and of its annual operations
at the end of every year. These accounts are subject to an external audit by
the Egyptian Central Audit Organization and to the approval of the general
meeting of stockholders held regularly within six months after the end of each
year.   Petrogas would prepare project accounts separately, and these accounts
and annual accounts and financial statements, would also be audited
independently. The Bank would be supplied with copies of all statements no
later than six months after the end of every year.



- 36 -
VII.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Economic Jus..ification
7.01      The principal economic justification for the GCGDC is the
replacement of high-value fuels (LPG and gas oil) with a fuel of lower
economic value, natural gas. The project would also generate benefits for
consumers in terms of the convenience and cleanliness of natural gas. In the
case of the Trans Gulf Gas Component, the primary benefit would be the
substitur-Jon of shut-in and flared gas for fuel oil, which is currently used
as a fuel. in power and industrial applications.
7.02      The critical variables for the economic return are the cost of the
project, the level of gas consumption achieved, the cost of gas input to the
project, and the value of fuels displaced. The project has been evaluated by
comparing the economic value of fuels displaced by gas, and the value of the
convenience benefits of gas, with the costs of the project and the opportunity
cost of gas.
B. Project Economic Costs
7.03      Total project capital costs include both infrastructure financed by
the project and any connection and conversion charges financed by consumers.
Estimated equilibrium exchange rates' have been used in converting local costs
to dollars. The cost of gas has been taken as the fuel oil equivalent at
international prices as, in the absence of the project, gas would be used to
displace fuel oil in dual-fired power stations and heavy industries. As Egypt
is an exporter of fuel oil and projected to remain so over the medium term,
any fuel oil displaced would be exported. The gas supply-demand analysis
confirms that Egypt is unlikely to have sufficient gas to displace all fuel
oil from power and heavy industry.
C. Project Economic Benefits
7.04      The volume of gas sales achieved for a given expenditure on the
distribution system is critical to gas distribution economics. Given
Petrogas's substantial experience with household connections, it is assumed
that the target number of residential customers is achieved. Usage per
residential household (240 cm/yr) is projected on the basis of those
households currently connected to the distribution system. A trend
consumption growth of 1 percent per annum is anticipated, primarily due to the
lJ The estimated equilibrium exchange rates are 3.95, 4.67, 5.20, 5.50 and
5.62 for FY92 to FY96, respectively.



- 37 -
increasing penetration of natural gas water heaters. It has been assumed that
all the fuel displaced in households is LPG, although electricity is used for
cooking and water heating in a small percentage of households. The
displacement of electricity will tend to increase economic benefits, relative
to LPG displacement.
7.05      Commercial sector demand has been estimated on the basis of existing
use, and information on comparable projects, at 6,000 cm/yr per customer.
This is above the present average of around 5,000 cm/yr. This latter figure
is believed to be depressed because gas to commercial consumers costs around
twice as much as LPG. Average commercial consumption is expected to rise by
about 5 percent per annum, due to a combination of growth in the service
sector and of the switching to gas by large users as LPG prices are raised.
While most of the fuel displaced in the commercial sector is expected to be
LPG, a significant proportion of gas oil is expected to be displaced among
larger users. The estimated industrial demand for gas is based upon current
fuel usage as surveyed by Petrogas.
7.06      Because the relatively large unit consumption of commercial
consumers greatly improves the load on the distribution system, project
economics are sensitive to achieving target consumption in the commercial
sector. Under the first phase of Cairo gas distributicn, commercial
consumption was held back by the low relative price of LPG and by poor
marketing. The risks associated with increased commercial use are being
addressed by specifically targeting LPG prices in the energy price reform
program, by initiating gas tariff reform, by focussing distribution expansion
in areas with relatively high concentrations of potential commercial users and
by strengthening the operations of Petrogas. Hence, the target commercial
consumption is expected to be achieved.
7.07      The GCGDC would result in the annual displacement of an estimated
76,000 tonnes of LPG, 18,000 tonnes of fuel oil and 26,000 tonnes of gas oil
by FY98. These fuels have been valued at border prices. Prices are adjusted
for delivery costs to the customer gate or export point. Since approximately
80 percent of the gross benefits of the GCGDC are attributable to LPG
displacement, the valuation of LPG is crucial to the project's economics. In
the long term, potential LPG demand in Egypt could only be satisfied by
imports, and the cif price for LPG has thus been used in the calculation of
LPG economic value. In addition, LPG incurs substantial distribution costs,
which have been estimated (based upon detailed costings provided by Petrogas)
at US$150/tonne.
7.08      Conversion to natural gas confers substantial benefits upon LPG
consumers through savings on LPG cylinder delivery, a more secure supply of
energy and savings on the space needed for LPG cylinders. These benefits have
been estimated at US$30/ton of LPG displaced for residential consumers and at
US$15/ton of LPG displaced for commercial consumers (see Annex XIV).
7.09      The project would also yield environmental benefits from the
displacement of gas oil and fuel oil in industries and on commercial premises
in urban Cairo. However, these benefits have to be balanced against the



- 38 -
increased fuel oil used in power stations outside urban Cairo due to the
diversion of natural gas for the GCGDC. Additional environmental benefits
would also arise from a reduction in the transport of LPG cylinders (about 5
million per annum) through congested city streets.
D. Economic Rate of Return
7.10        The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the project is estimated to
be 18 percent. The ERR of the GCGDC is 16 percent (see Annex XIV for
details). Sensitivities on key parameters show that the component is robust
to a number of adverse assumptions on costs and benefits:
ERR(X
Base Case                          16
Capital Cost -201                  20
Capital Cost +20X                  13
Unit Gas Consumption +20X          19
Unit Gas Consumption -201          12
LPG Prices +201                    18
Oil Prices -201                    14
7.11        Given that the marginal use of natural gas is in dual-fired
industrial and power boilers, the benefits attributed to the Trans Gulf Gas
component are valued at the international price of fuel oil. The ERR of the
Trans Gulf Gas Component is estimated to be 28 percent (see Annex XIV for
details). The largest risks projected for this Component are lower-than-
forecast oil prices and a shorter-than-expected producing life for the fields.
With a 20 percent decrease in oil prices, the ERR would remain attractive at
14 percent. Given that the probability distribution of oil prices over the
longer term is positively skewed, the risk of the return dropping to this
level is unlikely. Should the economic life of the project be reduced from 13
to 6 years, the ERR would remain attractive at 21 percent. The sensitivities
of the ERR to key input assumptions are outlined below, indicating that the
project's viabllity is robust:
ERR (X?
Base Case                               28
Capital Cost -201                       39
Capital Cost +20X                       21
Oil Prices +201                         41
OLI Prices -201                         14
Six Year Life                           21



- 39 -
E. Risks
7.12      The primary risk associated with the GCGDC is the possibility of an
insufficient increase in natural gas consumption by commercial customers due
to the relatively low prices of substitute fuels. The pricing issue regarding
substitute energy products has been addressed during the appraisal of the
project. In May 1990 weighted average petroleum product prices were increased
by 44 percent, and LPG (the primary fuel being substituted under the GCGDC)
was increased by 130 percent. Furthermore, the Government increased petroleum
product prices by 52 percent as of May 3, 1991. This price increase focussed
on increasing the price of the most heavily subsidized products by a greater
than average amount. In particular, the primary products for which natural
gas is a substitute, LPG and gas oil, have been increased substantially. LPG
is about four times the price prevailing prior to May 1990 and gas oil has
nearly tripled. As a result, Petrogas has had a considerable increase in
applications from commercial users for gas supply, thus minimizing the
economic risk associated with the GCGDC. The primary risk associated with the
Trans Gulf Gas Component is associated with the life of the related gas
fields. However, should the economic life be reduced from the expected level
of thirteen years to six years, the returns would still exceed 20 percent.
Hence, this risk is expected to be minimal.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from EGPC that:
(a) a study of the Cost of Gas Distribution, to be completed by
December 31, 1992, would be undertaken in collaboration with the
Bank (paras. 3.22);
(b) the facility in the existing Ras Shokeir pipeline to enable
transfer of gas produced from the Trans Gulf Gas Component would be
built simultaneously with this Component (para. 5.06);
(c) the Refinery Sector Investment Planning Study (para. 3.17) and
the Gulf of Suez Gas Development Plan Study (para. 3.18) would be
undertaken and completed by December 31, 1993;
(d) EGPC would operate a special account (revolving fund) for Bank
loan disbursements (para. 5.12);
(e) quarterly progress reports would be submitted to the Bank during
project implementation and annually thereafter during the life of
the proposed loan; and within four months of project completion, a



- 40 -
completion report dealing with project implementation and initial
operations and a reassessment of the project costs and benefits would be
submitted to the Bank (para. 5.13);
(f) the construction of facilities for the Trans Gulf Gas Component
shall be undertaken in accordance with environmental standards
satisfactory to the Bank and the progress reports would include all
information regarding adherence to such standards (para 5.18);
(g) the finances of EGPC and those of its subsidiaries that would
execute project components would be audited by independent auditors
within six months of the end of each fiscal year to ensure that the
consolidated net revenues of EGPC and its subsidiaries would not be less
than 1.5 times the consolidated debt service ratio (para.6.05); and
(h) funds would promptly be provided, as necessary, for the GCGDC
component, over and above Bank or other loans (para. 6.10).
8.02  During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Petrogas that:
(a) quarterly progress reports would be submitted to the Bank during
project implementation and annually thereafter during the life of the
proposed loan; and within four months of project completion, a
completion report dealing with project implementation and initial
operations and a reassessment of the project's costs and benefits would
be submitted to the Bank (para. 5.13);
(b) Prior to loan effectiveness, Petrogas would enter into a revised
contract with Egypt Gas, to be approved by the Bank based on the draft
contract, which would be reviewed during loan negotiations (para. 5.19);
(c) Petrogas would establish a marketing unit within its organization by
June 30, 1992 and would undertake a gas market development survey by
December 31, 1992 (para. 5.22);
(d) margins on natural gas sales of Petrogas would be maintained such
that revenues would be sufficient for a debt service coverage ratio of
not less than 1.5 and a self-financing ratio of not less than 25 percent
for gas operations (paras. 6.10); and
(e) Petrogas would provide separate gas and LPG accounts, have financial
statements audited independently, and supply the Bank with copies of
such statements no later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year; Petrogas would also provide both the auditor's reports and
financial statements along with budget forecasts for the following
fiscal year (para. 6.11).



- 41 -
8.03  Am conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) a Subsidiary Loan Agreement would be executed by EGPC on behalf of
the Borrower and Petrogas (para. 5.08);
(b) the EIB Loan Agreement would be concluded between EGPC and EIB and
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the EIB Loan Agreement
(except for the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement) would be fulfilled
(para. 5.08); and
(c) a revised contract between Petrogas and Egypt Gas, satisfactory to
the Bank, would be signed (para. 5.19).
Recommendation
8.04        Subject to the foregoing, the project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of US$84 million equivalent for a term of 20 years, including a grace
period of five years.



EGYPT
GAS INVUES  PROJECT
Ftmetional Structure of Oil Industry
MNinister of Petroles I
iSupri  Petroles i
IE1tPloation        IProductin                                      Refining and          Pipeline                    Narketing Ie ConstructI
PrcsiPro ng                                     Distribution    Engineering &
U '                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Services
Foreign
Partners                    ..                             Foreign
Partners
CPC      6~CPC       GILOSuz  i
Processing             PPC                            ISR
; Fe9 || EPOCO  R C                   Caany                                              Pet. Co. Oil
Los.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~r
r    .   _  MAM                     EL. ASARIr                   .
PETRCOEL          Cily Petrolesa                              SIED |Coop                                     EIPPI
_ Egptian                            |                              . Caqny                    .                       . Pet. Co. _
Drilling Co.                                                        C
IEL-MiNIMlF      Shoa
s    R    | ~Al l                   Alexan drial                                          
.   .   .    .        .           -S ~~~~Petroleua I                                    PEIROGAS I        I hSE
APIDOOO 541C                                          Cb pany                                                            Ga 1 6S
| DfOCO C                              Cairo Oil|
OSOO  Refining                                                        Pet roen
I gyptan General Petrole1 CorporatioSenrvce
IEL-ANAL F-                                               Egypt Petrol
gEGffi TCO                                Ccspany 
South~~ of0APETCO               Esso                 Assycut Oil                                                                            X
Raaadan I                                               1   huucalI
|ALAHERIA|
g                                                             Refining
Source: Egypt1an General Petroleum Corporation



EGYrPT
GAS NVESTh    PROJECT
Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation
Organization Chart
1Board of Oi1 t1
Vice                    Vice                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vice 
Vice           Vice           v ice          Chairmn         Caian               Vice          Chairman             Vice            Vice           Chairoma          Vice 
Chairom        Chairman       Chairman         Finanee         Plannn           Chair"n         Foreign and         Chuinn          Chaimen          hinistratian    Chain n
Exploratlon    Natuml 6as      Production      h Econnaic         and           Operations      Joint Venture    Internal Trade   Foreign Trade    and Legal        h1e ieeti
n  m  E6  - 1                                          E6PC
#  ISecreterRstl  Internal Auditl                        Security
Depart et                                               rpr   n
EGPC                                E6PC
Engineering                        Refining and
Oepartot eanufacturing
Department
g  E6PC    l  l                |   EGPC
Follow-up                          Distribution
Department                          Department
EGPC
Crmmercial
Souree: Egyptian 6eneral Petroleum Corporation                                            Department



- 44 -
Annex UII
Page 1 of 7
Egm
GAS JNVESTMENT PROJ,~.:
An assessment has been made of the outlook to the year 2005 for natural
gas demand and supply in Egypt. The principal purpose of this assessment is
to determine whether Egypt can be considered a gas deficit country, in that
there will remain unsatisfied demand for gas in sectors where gas use would be
economic. This assessment also provides a framework for judging priorities in
gas utilization and supply.
The methodology essentially consists of estimating the potential gas use
in power and in the main gas-using industries, which are either already
connected to the gas grid or could easily be connected to the grid in the
future. To this is added an estimate of possible demand in other industries
and in the residential and commercial sector. Supply projections are based
upon the outlook for production from fields currently producing or under
development and from discoveries that may be developed in the future.
The net deficit position represents a relatively conservative estimate
of the unsatisfied economic demand for gas. An estimate is made of the rate
of discoveries needed both to replace ongoing production and to cover this
deficit.
Gas Demand
Rower
Potential demand for gas in the power sector has been calculated on the
basis of the Egyptian Electricity Authority's long-term investment plan. The
potential demand in a given year is taken to be the sum of the gas requirement
of gas-dedicated plants (e.g., turbines and combined cycle) and the
requirement of dual-fuelled steam plants if all fuel requirements of these
plants were met by gas. Fuel requirements are calculated on the basis of
historical fuel requirements of EEA plants.
Power demand is assumed to grow at 4 percent p.a. to 1994/95 and at 6
percent p.a. thereafter. Hydro output is assumed constant at an annual
average of 9,300 MW, with all growth coming from thermal capacity.
Nea1ly all of the forward investment plans of EEA consist of investments
in combined cycle plants or dual-fired steam plants. It is assumed that
combined cycle plants run at base load (70 percent), while the load on gas
turbines falls from an average of 54 percent in 1988/89 to 20 percent in
1993/94 as system efficiencies reduce reliance on turbines for base and medium
load. Dual-fired steam plants pick up the balancing load, with any remaining
older (and hence inefficient) fuel oil plants phased out by 1993/94. The only
exception to this pattern is the 300 MW Assiut oil plant, which is not



- 45 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 7
connected to the gas grid and consumes the fuel oil output of the Assiut
refinery.
The forward program to 1995 includes the conversion of thermal stations
at Damanhour, Cairo West and Talkha (current capacity ca. 500 MW) to gas,
leaving only a very small (ca. 200 MW) quantity of inefficient fuel-oil-fired
capacity apart from Assiut. The Cairo West and Talkha plants will receive new
dual-fired units, and the existing Abu Qir dual-fired thermal station will be
expanded. By FY95 however, about 25 percent of capacity will come from
combined cycle units, with a total of 2,300 MW at Talkha, Dammieta, Cairo
South, Mahmoudia and Damanhour. All larger gas turbines had been converted to
dual gas oil/gas firing by 1990, the only exceptions being small units off the
gas grid.
The overall efficiency of fuel use in Egyptian power stations is likely
to rise substantially by 1995, due to several factors: the lowering of the
load on gas turbines as system efficiency increases; the conversion of some
large pre-built turbines and existing steam units to combined cycle operation;
the refurbishment of older steam units during their conversion to natural gas
dual firing; and the construction of new steam units. Average effici.ency is
likely to improve from around 286 g/kwh (fuel oil equivalent) in 1988/89 to
225 g/kwh by 1994/95.
Longer term capacity growth, at around 600 MW/yr is assumed to come from
dual-fired steam stations, starting with Kureimat in 1995/96. Construction of
further combined cycle plants is unlikely unless large new discoveries are
made, which could ensure long-term dedicated gas supplies.
The main downside risks to this forecast of potential gas demand in
power lie with possible lower power demand growth due to greater efficiency of
end use, in response to price rises or slow economic growth. Upside risks lie
with higher growth in electricity demand in the long term, assuming successful
economic restructuring, and with a lowering of hydro capacity at Aswan due to
falling water levels.
Egypt currently has three nitrogenous fertilizer plants using gas (at
Talkha, Abu Qir and Suez), which have been using gas for many years and
consumed around 120 mmcfd in FY90. The balance of demand is met through
production from the Kima electrolysis plant in Upper Egypt, a small plant at
Helwan that uses coke oven gas and imports.
Egyptian fertilizer requirements are expected to grow at 4 percent p.a.,
as fertilizer application rates and the fertilized agricultural area rise. To
meet this additional demand without a large growth in imports, there will be a
major expansion of the Abu Qir plant, and new units at Suez will be built.
The small Helwan plant could be replaced by a natural gas unit.



- 46 -
Annex III
Page 3 of 7
The future of the Kima plant, which is currently highly uneconomic, is
subject to some uncertainty. It has been assumed that this plant will be
replaced with an enlarged plant based upon fuel oil, as natural gas is not
planned to be supplied to Upper Egypt at present.
Celmen-t
At present four of Egypt's seven cement plants (Turah, Helwan, Suez and
National) are dual fired by fuel oil and natural gas; consumption in 1990/91
was 54 mmcfd. However, fuel oil usage is still around 1 million tons p.a.
Plans exist t, connect the plants at Kattamia and Ameriyah to gas in the next
two years. 'The only other large plant is at Assiut, which is not served by
the gas grid.
The pace of growth in cement demand in Egypt in the l990s is expected to
be well below the 15 percent p.a. seen between 1975 and 1985. Growth is
anticipated to be closer to GDP (4 percent p.a.), to be met by expansion of
the more efficient plants.
The phasing out of wet process manufacture by FY96 is expected to reduce
energy requirements. Wet process manufacture, which accounted for some 20
percent of supplies in FY90, uses about 75 percent more energy than the dry
process. Total potential gas usage in plants connected to the gas grid is
thus likely to rise at about 3 percent p.a. during the 1990s.
Other Industries
Outside of the above sectors, industrial energy use in Egypt remains
dominated by oil. Other industries used nearly 4 million tons of fuel oil and
gas oil in FY90, compared with only 1.2 million tons of fuel oil equivalent of
natural gas. Most of the demand in this sector is around the major cities
served by gas and is thus potentially substitutable (the GCGDEP will
substitute about 65,000 tons of this demand by 1998).
In practice, the substitution of at least 50 percent of industrial
energy demand with gas should be seen as a reasonable long-term goal; this is
taken as the potential demand of this sector beyond 2000.
There is also significant potential demand for gas in the petroleum
sector, principally for refinery fuel. Two of Egypt's refineries (Alexandria
and Suez) are connected to gas, and a third (Ameriya) is expected to be
connected in the next two years. However, consumption in FY90 was only
8 mmfd. Potential consumption in all the refineries (excluding Assiut) is
conservatively estimated at about 90 mmcfd by 2000.
Residential and Commercial
Despite relatively low per capita household energy consumption and the
lack of a space heating requirement, Egypt's large urbanized population and
sizeable commercial and services sector provides a substantial potential
demand base. Current plans calling for extending the grid in Cairo, with



- 47 -
Annex III
Page 4 of 7
a smaller grid in Alexandria, are likely to lead to a demand of only some 25
mmcfd in 2000, which has been taken as the base case forecast. However,
actual potential consumption could be far above this level, if funds were
available to connect suitable areas in all major cities.
Upper Egvit Demand
All the estimates of potential demand above exclude the demand which
would arise if Upper Egypt, including the city of Assiut and points further
South, were connected to gas.
Total additional potential demand from connection of Upper Egypt could
be at least 150 mmcfd by the late 1990s, or an additional 7 percent above the
base case for the rest of Egypt.  This potential demand would come from the
Assiut power plant (50 mmcfd), Assiut cement plant (40 mmcfd), Kima fertilizer
replacement (40 mmcfd) and miscellaneous demand from the Assiut refinery and
other industries (at least 20 mmcfd). If sufficient gas were available, this
level of demand could justify a pipeline either from the Red Sea coast, or
from Cairo, at least as far as Assiut.
Gas Production
Estimates of future gas production are based upon discussions with EGPC
and published industry sources. Figures are shown by field processing plant
and are net of any LPG extracted at the plant (LPG is extracted at all plants
except Badr El Din).
Of the established fields, production at Abu el Gharadig, which started
in 1976, is expected to decline steadily from 1994/95 as the reservoir is
depleted. Production from the Abu Madi field is expected to be boosted by
around 25 percent in 1992/93 and to maintain this higher level until 2005.
However, this may be optimistic and production could remain steady at around
340 mmcfd. Abu Qir production has suffered some well productivity problems
and is not expected to exceed previous production levels. Gulf of Suez
associated gas production is constrained by capacity at the Ras Shukeir
processing plant and in the pipeline to Suez, and hence no expansion is
possible from the established infrastructure.
The principal increment to production is expected to come from the Badr
El Din (BED) developments and from the El Qara development in the Abu Madi
area. BED 3 came on stream in the second half of 1990 and is expected to
build a plateau of 150 mmcfd during 1991. BED 2 is expected to contribute
around 75 mmcfd from the beginning of 1992. The Abu Senan field will link
into the BED line to Ameriya, producing an estimated 75 mmifd from 1991
onwards. El Qara is expected to produce 120 mmnfd from 1992, which will be
processed jointly with Abu Madi gas.
Gas from the Khalda area in the Western Desert, which is located too far
from the main consumption areas for transport to be economic at present, is
being developed to supply a power plant in Metruh, on the Mediterranean coast.
With no link to the national grid, output is demand constrained and will



- 48 -
Annex IU
Page 5 of 7
increase with the expansion of power generation capacity. If substantial
additional gas discoveries are made in the area, transport of the gas to the
Cairo/Alexandria areas may be possible, although it is unlikely that any such
project will materialize before the late 1990s.
Of the potential developments identified, the most promising is the
recovery of additional associated gas from the Gulf of Suez, beginning with
the Trans Gulf Project.  This should supply some 70 mmcfd from 1993.  It is
assumed that an additional increment of this amount is recovered from 1997
onwards, although the potential could be above this level. The Harid field,
which lies at the Red Sea entrance of the Gulf of Suez, is at present assumed
to be too small to develop, although additional exploration may prove reserves
in the Red Sea that would make development economic, although production is
unlikely before 2000.
Port Fouad, El Timsah and some related structures, which lie offshore
from the Eastern Nile Delta, are currently under evaluation by IOCs and
provide the most substantial longer term development options. It is assumed
that around 1.5 tef of reserves from this area can be developed. However,
much additional appraisal drilling is required before a development decision
can be taken, and the 1997/98 start-up date assumed may be optimistic.
Supply-Demand Balance
The comparison of potential demand with potential supply, based upon
existing identified reserves detailed in the table below, shows an excess of
potential demand over supply of around 160 mmcfd in 1992/93, rising to
700 mmcfd in 2000.
Some of this gap will no doubt be filled by production from new
discoveries. However, the level of new discoveries needed to sustain self-
sufficiency, particularly beyond 2000, is relatively high. Moreover, any new
discoveries will take at least three years to come into production (probably
much longer if they are located well away from existing pipelines); hence
self-sufficiency is not possible before about 1995, whatever the level of
future discoveries.
The total quantity of reserves required to achieve self-sufficiency, on
the basis of potential demand projections, has been calculated on the
following assumptions: that sufficient gas will have to be discovered, on
average, each year to replace production in that year; and that additional
reserves will have to be discovered to cover the growing gap between potential
demand and supply. It is assumed that the reserves/production ratio for all
new discoveries will be 20.
On this basis, total new discoveries required to maintain self-
sufficiency until 2000 would be about 12 tcf. With growing demand, however,
discoveries would have to rise to 20 tcf by 2005. These figures appear large
relative to the total discoveries to date of around 13 tcf and would probably
require the discovery of a major new gas-prone geological play system. Hence,
the balance of probability is that Egypt will remain a gas-deficit country in
the long term.
N: \ehbad\Saz\wm*x3. e&



49 -
.4~ ~~~~...               ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT            :. -Annex III
GAS INVESTMENT LOAN             -     Pae6 of7
NATURAL GAS SUPPLY/DEMAND BALANCE    ,   .
OTENTIAL DEMAND  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93 FY94  PY95  FY96  FY97 FY98 FY99
POWER               6,486 7,214 8,755 9,499 9,333 10,163 10,909 11,813 12,679 13,602 14,579
Steam NG/HFO       4,394 4,634 5,803 6,821 5,979 6,099 6,845 7,599 8,465 9,388 10,365
Combined C             0     0   610   610 2,012 3,348 3,348 3,348 3,348 3,348 3,348
Gas Turbines       2,092 2,580 2,192 1,918 1,193   567  567   567   567   567   567
FERTILIZERS         1,161  1,251  1,145 1,325 1,530 1,609 1,663 1,681  1,707 1,785 1,867
CEMENT              1,394 1,530 1,362 1,364 1,367 1,385 1,453 1,435 1,509 1,586 1,666
PETROLEUM             288   305   365   400   550   620   660   693   728   764   802
INDUSTRY            1,976 2,079 2,131 2,216 2,305 2,397 2,493 2,593 2,696 2,804 2,916
RES/COM                67    74   81   100   120   140   160   180   200   220   240
TOTAL DEMAND       11,372 12,453 13,839 14,904 15,205 16,314 17,337 18,395 19,519 20,762 22,070
POTENTIAL SUPPLY   FYL.9 FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93 FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98 FY99
PRODUCING           7,279 7,908 8,037 8,037 10,325 10,325 10,271 10,220 10,172 10,126 10,082
Abu el Gharadig    1,195 1,073 1,073 1,073 1,073 1,073 1,019   968   920   874   830
Abu Madi (+Qara)   2,619 3,484 3,484 3,484 6,772 5,772 5,772 5,772 5,772 5,772 5,772
Abu Qir (+N.A.Q)   2,016 1,959 2,000 2,000 2,000 2,000 2,000 2,000 2,000 2,000 2,000
Guff of Suez       1,372 1,313 1,400 1,400 1,400 1,400 1,400 1,400 1,400 1,400 1,400
Sinai                 77    79    80    80    80    80    80    80    80    80    so
UNDER DEV.              0     0   925 2,475 3,250 3,2. ) 3,250 3,400 3,400 3,400 3,400
BED/A Sennan            0     0   775 2,325 3,100 3,100 3,100 3,100 3,100 3,100 3,100
Khalda                  0     0   150   150   150   150   150   300   300   300   300
POTENTIAL DEV           0     0     0     0     0   750   750   750   750 3,000 4,500
El Temsah/P.Fouad etc                                                       1,500 3,000
Gulf of Suez Add.                                    750   750   750   750 1,500 1,500
TOTAl SUPPLY        7,279 7,908 8,962 10,512 13,575 14,325 14,271 14,370 14,322 16,526 17,982
BALANCE             4,093 4,545 4,877 4,392 1,630 1,989 3,066 4,024 5,197 4,236 4,088



Annex III
- 50 -                         Page 7 of 7
EGYPT: NATURAL GAS SUPPLY/DEMAND GAP
25,000                                                 Potential Gas Demand
20,000
15,000
. o,000
5,000
0
88/89 89/90 9091 91/92 92193 93/94 94/95 95/96 96/97 97/98 98/99 99/00
Page 1



- 51 -
Annex IV
d                ~~~~~~jX
16 a~~
4E



- 52 -
Annex M
Page 1 of 9
GAS INVESTMENT PROJECT
Greateg Cairo  Gas pistribution CMonpt
The proposed Cairo Gas Distribution Project would consist of:
1. Construction of 16-km steel mains with a 12" diameter high pressure
main from the Nasr City's pressure regulating stations (PRS) to
Abbasia to supply gas to industries along the route and to provide
additional supply to Nasr City, El Obour and Abbasia;
2. Installation of one PRS with 60,000 CM/hr capacity in Abbasia to
reduce the main feeder's pressure from 30-bar to 7-bar;
3. Installation of some 8-km additional steel mains to supply gas to
industries in the west of Cairo;
4. Construction of a 900-km medium pressure and low pressure
polyethylene (PE) netwotk;
5. Installation of 55 district rAgulating stations and 500 service
regulators to reduce the pressure from 7-bar to 4-bar and from 4-
bar to 75-milli. bar, the required pressure for the service islands;
6. Installation of river crossings from Roda Island to East Cairo,
Garden City and Monira areas;
7. Construction of 31,080 service connections for residential apartment
buildings, 5,000 (3,000 infill and 2,000 new areas) for commercial
consumers, and 17 for industrial consumers;
8. Installation of 3,720-km carcassing for the apartment buildings and
internal piping for the residential consumer premises;
9. Installation of 235,000 meter and governor kits for residential and
5,017 meters and regulator stations for industrial and commercial
consumers;
10. Conversion of about 400,000 consumers; appliance/burners; and
11. Technical assistance that would finance:
(a) conversion of some existing facilities to training centers to
be equipped with modern facilities; and training of technical
staff both in Egypt and in other countries with advanced gas
industry, to maximize operational efficiency; and
(b) computerization of customer services, planning and engineering,
emergency centers, and MIS.



- 53 -
AnanexV
Page 2 of 9
The details regarding the number of new customers expected to be
serviced by the infrastructure financed under the loan and their location are
based on a series of surveys undertaken by Petrogas and their consultant since
1982. In the Garden City area, gas would be supplied to hotels, some of which
are still using costly manufactured gas. In the West Cairo area, which is a
new gas development area, a mixed development c.. the west bank of the River
Nile stretching from Madinet El Omal in the north to Giza in the south and the
Pyramids in the west is planned. There are a number of high-rise apartment
buildings along the banks of the Nile on the islands of Zamalik and Manial El
Rodah, and on the opposite side of the islands in the main banks, that are
targeted for connection to natural gas. Some of these blocks are more than 20
stories high. The housing potential along the banks of the Nile and in the
center of the area designated for the gas network tends to be good. New
housing and large- and medium-size commercial consumers concentrated around
the parallel roads that lead towards the Pyramids are also targeted for
connection to natural gas. The details regarding the expected location of new
consumers are as indicated below:
No. of Customers
A. Cairo West
1.  El Haram Area (Pyramid)                              110,000
2. Giza       15,000
3.  Imbaba   l15.000
Subtotal                                       140,000
B. Cairo East
1.  15 of May City (Helwan)                               10,000
2.  Emtedad Rameses (Abbasia)                              7,000
3.  Sheraton (Heliopolis)                                  5,000
4.  El Eskan El Swesry (N. City)                           5,000
5.  Medinet El Solb (Helwan)                               5,000
6.  El Nozhah (Heliopolis)                                 3,000
7.  El Soudia (Zeitoon)                                    3,000
8.  New Developments (N. City)                             3,000
9.  El Obour Extension                                     2,000
10.  El Obour 2                                             1,000
11.  Awel Mayo City (N. City)                               1,000
12.  Eskan El Mohandeseen (N. City)                         1,000
13.  Garden City and Monira                                14.000
Subtotal                                        60,000
C. Commercial and Infill
1.  Residential Infill                                    35,000
2.  Commercial Infill                                      3,000
3.  New Commercial                                         2,000
Subtotal                                        40,000
D. Industrial Consumers                                           17
Total Consumers Under the Proposed Project                   240,017



- 54 -
Annex V
Page 3 of 9
The yearly progress for the distribution network and the conversion of
customer appliance/burners from their existing fuels to natural gas is shown
below:
FY93    FY94 WA   9     FY96    FY7    Total
- Ind'l steel mains, km       8      15     ...      ...     ---       23
- PE mains, km              175     175     175     175      175      900
Customer Connection
- Residential           40,000  40,000  40,000  40,000  40,000  200,000
- Residential winfills"  7,000   7,000   7,000   7,000   7,000   35,000
- Coumercial               400      400     400     400     400    2,000
- Coimercial winfills"     600      600     600     600      600    3,000
- Industrial                  1       4       4       4        4       17



- 55 -
Annex V
Page 4 of 9
The project cost estimate is as shown in the table below.
L9oca   Foreign  Total
--- (US$ million)----
I. Materials
Line Pipes & Valves                             0.32   16.72    17.04
Regulating Stations                             0.03    2.45      2.48
Service Connections                             0.08    2.65      2.73
Customer Meters & Regulators                    0.19   21.30    21.49
Customer Piping & Conversion                    Q.,8   23.00    23.38
Subtotal                                1.00   66.12    67.12
II. Engineering & Construction &
Procurement Services
Engineering & Procurement Services              4.40    7.90    12.30
Construction Equipment                          2.40    9.70    12.10
Pipelines & Valves                              9.45    3.99    13.43
Regulating Stations                             0.86    0.18      1.04
Service Connections                             0.82    0.17      1.00
Customer Meters and Regulators                  5.08    1.14      6.22
Customer Piping and Conversion                 48.36    7.99    56.34
Subtotal                                71.37   31.07   102.43
III. Market Development & Training                   0.10    1.00      1.10
IV. Taxes & Duties                                 12,00    0.00    12.00
Total Base Cost, End-1990 Prices                     84.47   98.19   182.65
Physical Contingency                            7.00    3.20    10.20
Price Contingency                              13.70   14.10    27.80
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                  105.17  115.44   220.65



Annex V
- 56                                Page 5 of 9
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Cummulative Disburement
End of Quarter
(US$ 1000)
Calendar Year and Quarter             Incremental        Cummulative
FY 92
3rd quarter                      0.2                0.2
4th quarter                      0.7                0.9
FY 93
1st quarter                      2.7                3.6
2nd quarter                      2.7                6.3
3rd quarter                      2.7                9.0
4th quarter                      2.7               11.7
FY 94
1st quarter                      2.7               14.4
2nd quarter                      3.0               17.4
3rd quarter                      2.5               19.9
4th quarter                      2.5               22.4
FY 95
1st quarter                      2.5               24.9
2nd quarter                      2.5               27.4
3rd quarter                      2.5               29.9
4th quarter                      3.3               33.2
FY 96
1st quarter                      3.3               36.5
2nd quarter                      3.3               39.8
3rd quarter                      3.3               43.1
4th quarter                      1.4               44.5
FY 97
1st quarter                      1.4               45.9
2nd quarter                      1.0               46.9
3rd quarter                      1.2               48.1



- 57 -
Page 6 of 9
Key Acto2nPlan
1£MEPA                                Completion Date
1. Basic design including survey of commercial
and residential consumers                                      01/91
2. Material tender document preparation                           01/91
3. Draft of Revised EgyptGas/Petrogas Contract                    03/91
4. General Procurement Notice (60 days prior to
issuance of bid documents)                                     02/91
5. World Bank review of tender documents (15 days)                02/91
6. Bid documents issued (45 days minimum required
for suppliers to submit bids)                                  04/91
7. Expected World Bank consideration of loan                      05/91
8. Bids received and evaluated                                    06/91
9. World Bank review of bid evaluation report
(within 15 days for contracts below $5 million
and 30 days for contracts above $5 million)                    07/91
10.     Materials ordered                                         09/91
11.     Materials received (first shipment)                       01/92
12.     Construction start-up                                     07/92
13.     Const.z'stion completion                                  06/97



- 58 -
Annex V
Page 7 of 9
Idustrial Consumers Prooosed for Conversion to Natural Gas
Current Consumption
of Petroleum Products        Estimated Equiv.
DeseriRtio-n                        Gas Oil  Fuel Oil  Kerosene  LPG  Gas ReIuirements
--t/yr .-                           -----mcm/yr--.-
1. Glass Factory                       12,479                                  14,688
2. 7-Up Factory                         3,000                        80         3,630
3. Pencils and Graphite Factory           900                        17         1,080
4. Ideal Factory                          300                                     450
5. Abbassia Industrial Area             1,644                90                 1,935
6. El Nasr Castings                     1,427    5,884                          8,400
7. Berzy Factory                                   150                            168
8. Olympic Electric Company               357                                     420
9. Wooltex Weaving Factory                         735                            840
10. Shorbagy Factory                                 551                           630
11. El Ahram Beer Factory                  700    4,707                 1        4,700
12. Coca Cola Factory                      130      514                            560
13. Eastern Company for Cigarettes                3,310                4         3,790
14. El Nasr Company for Cigarettes          20       147                1          193
15. Pepsi Cola Factory                     200       507              30           852
16. Seed Pharmaceuticals                    50      235               25           358
17. Aromatics Factory                                368                9          430
Subtotal Consumption                21,207   17,108       90     167        43,134
Helwan Industrial Area
1. Railway Wagon Factory                        10,537              245        11,772
2. Military Factory No. 09                449                       200           763
3. Helwan Cooperation for
Non-Ferrous Industries (No. 63)    2,923    1,740                            5,230
4. Factory No. 909 .                    1,067                                   1,218
5. El Nasr Company, Steel Pipes         3,830      460              163         5,077
Total Consumption                   29,476   29,845       90     775        67,194



Annex V
-59-                             Page 8 of 9
Procurement Table
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
ICB     Other  Total cos
High pressure steel pipes                  2.1      2.1
(larger than 2")
Low pressure steel pipes                   8.4      8.4
(2" and smaller)
P.E. pipes and fittings                   14.1     14.1
Network regulating stations                7.5      7.5
Customer meter and              18.6       1.4       20
regulators              (18.3)             (18.3)
Ball valves                      7.6                7.6
(7.5)             (7.5)
Pipe fittings                    7.2                7.2
(7.1)             (7.1)
Conversion kits                  6.6                6.6
(6.5)             (6.5)
Expansion bellows                2.1                2.1
(2.1)             (2.1)
Service connections              1.8                1.8
(1.8)             (1.8)
Miscellaneous network            3.6                3.6
fittings  a/               (3.6)              (3.6)
Engineering & construction               140.4    140.4
& procurement services                 ( - )    ( - )
Consultancy services for                   1.3      1.3
studies and training                 (1.2)    (1.2)
TOTAL                           47.5    175.2    222.7
(46.9)    (1.2)   (48.1)
Note:
Figures in parantheses would be financed by the Bank.
a/ Consists of 10 small packages.



GREATER CAIRO GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
PROJECT SCHEDULE
1991     1992      1993     1994     1995      1996     1997
ACTIVITY    1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
Network Design
and Consumer
Survey
Material
Procurement         SI  '                       MR
_  _    _ .                       __      _    _    _   _ ..    .   ..   .   .. _ _   _ . ..._ a'.... 
Network
Construction                        M                             M_ MISS
Consumer
Connecton                      48,000             4000    i  3   48,000
LEGEND:
TP = Tender Preperatlon
Bi =Bid Issued
MO = Material Ordered                                                                                  x
MR = Material Received



- 61 -
Afxex VI
Page 1 of 16
MES 
GAS INVESTMNT PROECT
Trangs-Gulf Gas Cgomo-nq"
1.    Project Objective
More than 90 percent of Egypt's oil production is concentrated in the
Gulf of Suez. During 1990 as much as 873,000 bbl/day of oil and about 1,180
million cu ft/day (MMCFD) of associated gas was being produced. Of these,
over 760 MMCFD fed the existing 2,000 km gas pipeline system. However, with
increasing demand for natural gas in the country, GOE has declared a policy of
minimizing flaring of associated gas. In order to pursue this objective, EGPC
has proposed the Trans Gulf Gas Project to utilize additional associated gas
from the October (about 70 MMSCFD) and Sinai/Belayim fields (about 37 MMSCFD)
in Gulf of Suez. The perceived benefits are:
(a) providing additional natural gas that would substitute for liquid
petroleum products, which could alternatively be exported or utilized in areas
where natural gas is not currently available;
(b) enabling EGPC to obtain value-added natural gas liquids (e.g., LPG,
gasolir.e, etc.) by processing the additional associated gas that is now being
flared; and
(c) contributing towards environmental protection objectives by
reducing CO2 and other emissions in the Gulf of Suez area, thus mitigating
atmospheric pollution and global warming problems.
2.   Gas SuDplies and Reserves
Oil and associated gas is currently being produced from over 70 fields
in the Gulf of Suez. These fields are being produced by 11 operating
companie..  In 9 out of 11 of these operating companies, EGPC is 50 percent
partner. Two operating companies --General Petroleum Company (GPC) and
GEISUM-- are 100 percent ownied by EGPC. The Gulf of Suez Petroleum Company
(GUPCO) is the operating company formed between AMOCO (50 percent) and EGPC
(50 percent) and is responsible for about 50 percent of the total oil
production from the area. GUPCO operates 24 fields with oil production of
about 400,000 B/D. Petrobel (AGIP/EGPC) is producing about 200,000 B/D
followed by SUCO (ESSO/EGPC) at 100,000 B/D. Under the old oil-production
sharing agreements, all associated gas belonged to EGPC. More recently
(1988), EGPC modified production-sharing contracts by including a new gas
clause. GUPCO is operating in new contract areas under this clause. Over the
years, EGPC has taken steps to utilize associated gas from various fields
e.g., Amal, October, Ramadhan, Shoaib Ali, Morgan, Zeit Bay, East Zeif, etc.
(about 180 to 200 MMCFD of associated gas is being produced from such fields).
Aite' extracting LPG (650 tons/day) and natural gas liquids (560 tons/day)
i  as Shukeir gas plants, EGPC supplies dry sales gas (about 150 MMCFD) to



- 62 -
Annkez VI
Page 2 of 16
the Ras Shukeir-Suez pipeline for onward transmission to Cairo and Suez areas.
October and AbuReis Associated Gas.  The October Field was discovered by
GUPCO in 1975 and is currently producing oil and associated gas from 27
offshore wells. Some additional production is also being obtained from the
nearby North October field from six producing wells. Currently, ubout 45
MHSCFD of associated gas from the October field is transmitted through an
existing 30-inch diameter pipeline to Ras Bakr facilities; after processing,
dry sales gas is supplied through the 16-inch diameter Ras Shukeir pipeline to
Suez. With the increase in oil production from October fields from 100,000
B/D to 160,000 B/D, additional associated gas is being produced; this is in
excess of the capacity of the existing facilities being flared. As oil
production declines, gas oil ratios will tend to increase and associated gas
production will continue for a longer period than oil production. The
proposed project plans to utilize surplus gas, which is currently being flared
from these fields. The nearby North October field is in its early stages of
delineation and may provide additional gas to the project.
Belavim Fields. The Belayim Fields in the Sinai area cover both onshore
and offshore fields. Belaim (Land) was discovered by Petrobel in '955. Other
areas are Belaim Marine, Rudeis and Sidri (offshore) fields. Original
recoverable reserves were over two billion bbl from these fields. Remaining
recoverable reserves are estimated at about one billion bbl. Currently, about
160,000 b/d oil and 47 MMCFD of associated gas is being produced. The review
of the production profile indicates an average decline of 8 percent in oil
production. However, associated gas production is estimated at about 37 over
the first 5 years of the project life and to decline at about six per cent per
annum thereafter. Along with the above-mentioned surplus gas, the proposed
scheme envisages the utilization of any additional associated gas from these
fields.
3.    Status of Project Preparation
Currently, 40 of MMCFD associated gas from the October Field is being
transmitted to the Ras Bakr facilities through the existing 30-inch diameter
pipeline. As discussed above, in order to minimize flaring and optimally
utilize the surplus associated gas of about 30 MMCFD from the October Field,
and 37 MMCFD from the LPG recovery plant at Belayim in Sinai, EGPC
commissioned ENPPI, a 100 percent EGPC owned oonsulting services company, to
conduct a feasibility study. The objective was to evaluate alternatives and
develop budgetary cost estimates for optimizing the utilization of surplus-
associated gases from the Sinai/Belayim and October Fields. ENPPI completed
this study and submitted its report to EGPC in September 1990. After
evaluating various techno-economic options, ENPPI's main recommendations were:
(a) to add a new gas compression facility at the existing Belayim plant
(within Petrobel's SAGP plant) to compress 37 MMSCFD of Belayim/Sinai Gas,
using two new compressors;
(b) to extend the existing Sinai gas pipeline by about 12 km and 12
inch in diameter to link with the October field;



- 63 -
Annex Vl
Page 3 of 16
(c) to add an offshore platform template (a four-legged conventional
steel jacket structure) to the existing October production platform;
(d) to add two turbine driven compressors and associated facilities to
the platform extension to compress about 70 MMSCFD of associated gas from the
October field; and
(e) to install additional processing facilities at the existing Ras
Bakr gas processing plant comprising two stage compression, refrigeration and
dehydration facilities in order to treat 107 MMSCFD of wet gas and provide:
(i) 40 MMSCFD dry gas to Unit 104; and
(ii) to transmit 67 MMSCFD of dry gas to the Sales gas pipeline to
Suez.
The above-mentioned ENPPI feasibility study submitted to EGPC was
reviewed by the Bank. The mission broadly agreed with the recommendations
made in this study regarding the project. Further, the mission reviewed with
EGPC the reservoir behavior and the production profile for both the October
and Belayim fields. The expected production profile for the Belayim and
October fields are as indicated below.
Eield   Year  1992/93  93L94   94L25   95 p96   96/97   97/98   98/99   99/2000
Belayim          37      37      37       37      37       35      33        30
October          50      60       70      70      70       55      40        30
Based on the above profile, the associated gas feed to the LPG plants
will be in the range of about 50 to 60 MMCFD up to year 2000, yielding about
37 MMCFD dry gas for the pipeline and will later follow the natural decline
behavior of the oil reservoirs. While oil production is expected to decline,
gas oil ratios will increase resulting in relatively lower decline in gas
production rates.
Since appraisal, EGPC has awarded a turnkey contract to ENPPI for
consulting services for the Trans Gulf component. These include basic and
detailed design and engineering, procurement services, project management,
construction supervision and overall responsibility for project performance,
start-up, etc.
ENPPI has started preparation of basic design and the preparation of the
bidding documents in accordance with ICB procedures for the Bank financed
components.



- 64 -
Xnnex. MI
Page 4 of 16
4.   rtoAect Description
The project would consist of the following:
(i)   Fabrication and installation of an extension to the existing
offshore platform of a template (a four-legged conventional steel jacket
structure) about 40 meters northeast of the existing October production
platform, with a bridge connection to the existing platform; modifications to
the flare hook-up; blowdown systems; topside facilities, the installation of
two gas compression units; and associated facilities, utilities and
infrastructure.
(ii) Construction of a 12 km extension to the existing 30-inch
diameter Sinai gas pipeline of a new 12-inch diameter submarine pipeline to
link the October field platform.
(iii) Installation of a new gas compression facility at the existing
Belayim (within Petrobel's SAGP plant) to compress 37 MMSCFD of Belayim/Sinai
gas.
(iv) Expansion of the Ras Bakr Facilities
-Installation of gas processing facilities comprising two gas
compressor units, refrigeration and dehydration facilities in
order to process 107 MMSCFD of gas; of this, 40 MMSCFD of gas
would pass through existing unit 104 and 67 MMSCFD would be
supplied to the Suez pipeline.
(v)   Technical assistance, project management consulting services,
surveys, inspection and engineering services.
(vi) Training of EGPC Staff relating to engineering, reservoir
evaluation and planning pipeline network and gas processing. The location of
these facilities are illustrated in Map No. IBRD 22905.
The existing Ras Shukeir gas compression and processing facilities and
the 16-inch diameter Ras Shukeir Suez gas pipeline were constructed under the
Bank-financed Gulf of Suez Project (No. 1732-EGT). The project components
relating to Ras Bakr and the 16-inch diameter loop line are considered an
extension of these facilities. At the time of loan negotiations, assurances
would be sought from EGPC that it would directly finance the Ras Shukeir-Suez
pipeline component and complete it by the time the proposed Trans Gulf Gas
component was commissioned; without this pipeline expansion, it would not be
possible to transmit the additional 67 MMSCFD of sales gas to Suez.
5.    Project Implementation
EGPC would have the overall responsibility for implementing the proposed
project. However, various components of the project would involve other
entities: GUPCO would be involved in modifications at the October platform
and other facilities; Petrobel would be involved with the Sinai/Belain



- 65 -
Anmpx
Page 5 of 16
components; PPC would implement pipeline components; and ENPPI would handle
consulting services, etc.
In order to speedily and efficiently implement the project, EGPC would
form a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) headed by a project manager, who
would be responsible to the Head of Planning and Projects in EGPC. PIU would
coordinate and supervise various implementation functions necessary   to
design, procure, construct and commission the project facilities. The other
entities would support PIU's program as follows:
(i) ENPPI, a 100 percent owned subsidiary of EGPC, would be
responsible for detailed design, procurement, project management and
construction supervision; and
(ii) The construction and commissioning phase of the project would
be assigned - the following operating companies: (a) GUPCO for the October
field offshore facilities and the Ras Bakr facilities; (b) Petrobel for gas
compression and associated facilities at Belain/Sinai; and (c) Petroleum
Pipeline Company (PPC) for the offshore pipeline and the Ras Shukeir-Suez
pipeline loop to the existing 16-inch diameter Ras Shukeir-Suez pipeline.
ENPPI. ENPPI has vast experience with the design, management and
supervision of similar projects in Egypt. ENPPI was actively involved in
similar projects under the two previously financed Bank projects, i.e., the
Gulf of Suez Project (LN 1732-EGT), the Abu Qir Gas Development Project
(LN 2103-EGT), as well as other projects completed by EGPC. ENPPI would form
a project management team who would be fully responsible to PIU for this
project in all its phases.
Proiect Implementation Unit (PIU). EGPC would staff the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) from the experts working on similar projects and, if
necessary, from other operating companies with the requisite experience.
Additional technical assistance requiring skill/equipment not available within
EGPC organizations would be obtained from local and expatriate consulting
services whose qualifications, experience and conditions of employment would
be satisfactory to the Bank and EGPC. During negotiations, the composition
and qualifications of the PIU unit would be reviewed by the Bank and the PIU
team would be agreed upon with EGPC.
Implementation Schedule. EGPC plans to complete the Ras Shukeir-Suez
Pipeline component by June 1992. The implementation issues relating to the
remaining components would be discussed and finalized with EGPC during
negotiations. In order to speedily complete the project, it would ')e
essential to conduct offshore route surveys and finalize a detailed
engineering design of the project. Based on the detailed engineering design,
procurement packages for International Competitive Bidding would be prepared.
For construction and installation of onshore and offshore components,
prospective contractors should be prequalified in accordance with the Bank's
procurement guidelines. During negotiations agreement would be sought with
EGPC on (a) the finalization of procurement and contracting tasks; (b)
planning the project activities including preparation of a critical path plan



- 66 -
Annex VI
Page 6 of 16
of its activities leading to the award of contracts for onshore/onshore
activities; (c) the quarterly review of the progress of the project with the
Bank; and (d) the appointment of independent third party inspection services.
6.    Project Costs
The project is estimated to cost US$62.6 million equivalent including
contingencies. of which US$50.5 million or 80 percent represents the foreign
exchange component. A physical contingency of 10 percent was applied to all
project costs. The price contingencies are estimated based on a forecast of
foreign inflation of 3.4 percent per annum and local iiZlation of 16.7, 11.1
and 8.7 percent for FY92, FY93 and FY94, respectively.
The cost of material, equipment and installation is estimated at US$49.0
million. Detailed engineering, project management, procurement and
construction supervision costs are estimated at US$5.7 million. As discussed
in para. 3, ENPPI has been designated by EGPC for the above-mentioned
services, to be financed by EGPC through their ongoing arrangements. ENPPI
would be assisted by some expatriate personnel. The average man-month cost
for expatriates is estimated at US$15,000 per man-month and US$4,000 for local
personnel.  Other project related services, e.g., inspection, are estimated at
US$2.0 million and these would be procured by EGPC in accordance with the Bank
procurement guidelines. These estimates are based on current rates for
similar services.
Duties and taxes on goods and materials are not included since EGPC is
exempt from such payment. The estimated project costs, excluding interest
during construction, is summarized in below.
7.    Financing Plan
The proposed Bank loan of US$35.9 million for the Trans Gulf Project
component would finance about 60 percent of the total project cost, net of
duties and taxes, and would meet about 72 percent of foreign costs. All local
currency expenditures, including duties and taxes, if any, would be financed
by EGPC. EGPC would also finance, through its own resources, the total
expenditures, both foreign and local for (i) an on-going contract with ENPPI
for the study, design, project management, procurement and construction
supervision of the proposed Trans Gulf Project and the Ras Shukeir-Suez gas
pipeline expansion component; (ii) and all expenditures, both local and
foreign, for the Ras Shukeir-Suez gas pipeline component.
The proposed financing plan is summarized in Table 1.



- 67 -
Annex V
Page 7 of 16
Table 1
Prolect Financing Pla
USS million
Source of Funds           LQcagj               Total    X -of Financing PlaI
IBRD                        -         35.9      35.9           597.6
EGPC                      152                   24.3            40.4
Total               11.8       48.7       60.2           100.0
8.    Procurement
Bank financing is proposed for the following main procurement packages:
- Supply, installation and commissioning of the gas-turbine-driven
compressor package and offshore facilities on the October Platform.
- Supply, installation and commissioning of two gas-engine-driven
compressor packages and associated facilities in the Sinai/Belaim area.
- Supply, installation, and commissioning of two gas-turbine-driven
compressor packages and associated facilities at Ras Bakr.
- Supply, installation and commissioning of gas processing facilities at
the Ras Bakr processing plant.



-68 -                           Annex VI
Page 8 of 16
TRANS GULF PROJECT
Table 2
Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million)
Gas Surveys                               ICB  1/          LIB   Other  2/         Total
Compressors and associated equipment         10.0          4.0          2.5         16.5
(10.0)       (4.0)                    (14.0)
Platform template                              9.5                      9.3         18.8
(9.5)                    (2.0)       (11.5)
Submarine pipeline                                                      2.2          2.2
Gas treatment equipment &                      4.4         4.0          5.0         13.4
related services                     (4.4)        (4.0)        (2.0)      (10.4)
Construction and consulting                                             8.9          8.9
services
Subtotal                      23.9          8.0         27.9         59.8
(23.9)       (8.0)        (4.0)       (35.9)
Note:
1/ Figures in parantheses to be financed by the Bank.
2/ The components to be cofinanced by EIB (US$ 33 million) are given under Other.



- 69 -
Amex VI
Page 9 of 1 6
All Bank-financed procurement for goods and services would be in
accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. Detailed procurement
arrangements and list of packages proposed for Bank financing are given in
Table 2.
All major packages of material, equipment and services for EGPC and its
implementing agencies would be procured in accordance with the Bank's
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures except for the following:
(a)   Contracts for equipment and inspection and similar services needed
for offshore operations, e.g., specialized equipment, instruments
and specialized services (inspection and similar services), which
are available only from a limited number of suppliers, and which
do not exceed an aggregate of US$3.0 million, may be awarded in
accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines for Limited
International Bidding (LIB).
(b)   Contracts for the equipment and material that are proprietary, or
needed to ensure standardization and compatibility witn the
existing equipment and facilities, which do not exceed in value
the equivalent of US$200,000 each, and do not exceed in aggregate
the equivalent of US$2.0 million may be procured by direct
contracting under the terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
All bid packages having a value of US$300,000 equivalent or greater
would be subject to prior Bank review. Other contracts would be subject to
selective post award review by the Bank.
In order to expedite procurement, all bid packages would be prepared by
EGPC in accordance with the Sample Bidding Documents prepared by the Bank.
Retroactive financing to the extent of US$5.0 million equivalent would be
permitted to cover advance contracting for the materials and equipment
procured in accordance with ICB procedures, if acceptable to the Bank.
9.    Disbursement
Disbursement of the Bank loan would be made against (a) 100 percent of
the foreign exchange components of the imported equipment and material; and
(b) 100 percent of the ex-works cost of equipment and materials manufactured
locally and procured under ICB procedures, and 80 percent of the total
expenditures procured locally off-the-shelf.
The disbursement profile essentially conforms with the statistical
profile for Bank/IDA energy projects (e.g., oil, gas, refinery, energy
conservation), excluding power projects. It is generally in line with the
disbursement profile of past Bank-financed projects in Egypt. The
disbursement profile is based on (i) a three-month lag between the time
expenditures have been incurred (according to the project implementation
schedule) and the time funds are disbursed against this expenditure; and
(ii) the loan becoming effective in November 1991.



- 70 -
Annex VI
Page 10 of 1 6
10.   =WnLtoring and Renorting
Satlsfactory procedures for monitoring the progress of the project in
terms of physical executlon and financial reporting would be agreed with EGPC
during negotiations.
PIU would furnish to the Bank quarterly progress reports in a format to
be agreed wlth EGPC and the Bank. In additLon, EGPC would submLt monthly
progress report to the Bank. Any major issues that are likely to hamper or
delay project implementation would be tmmediately communicated by EGPC to the
Bank.
11.   Environmental IMRact
By minimlzing the flaring of associated gas in the Gulf of Suez, the
project would directly contribute toward the abatement of global warming and
the reduced emission of CO. in the atmosphere; it would indirectly contribute
by displacing fuel oil, the additional associated gas from the Gulf of Suez
area, which would reduce the emlssion of CO, ln the area, particularly where
power and chemical/industrial plants are located. The natural gas pipelines,
both offshore and onshore, would not create any environmental problems, as
offshore lines would be laid on seabed and adequately protected, and onshore
lines would be buried. Adequate monitor-ng arrangements would be installed on
these plpellnes to safeguard agalnst lea" and ruptures due to
overpressurization, corrosion and third-party damage.
Standard international petroleum industry practices and codes would be
followed for Gulf of Suez offshore installations, offshore and onshore natural
gas plpelines, and at Ras Bakr gas processing facilities. Safety distances
and appropriate safety codes would be applied for all gas processlng plants.
The operations, maintenance, flre preventlon and pollution control measures
taken by EGPC ln the existing Ras Bakr gas processing facilities and by its
operating companies (GUPCO and PETROBEL) ln offshore Gulf of Suez operations
are satisfactory. As a condltion of negotlations, EGPC would be requlred to
furnish to the Bank an updated quarterly environmental report lndlcating their
compliance wlth the standards satisfactory to the Bank. During negotiations,
EGPC agreement would be sought that prior to construction, an environmental
review of the proposed construction details would be furnished to the Bank for
review to ensure that all necessary environmentally mitigative features have
been addressed.
12.   Project RLsks
The offshore associated gas production from the October and Sinal/Belaim
oil fields carry the normal geological and operatlonal risks inherent to
petroleum production and process operations. Offshore gas operations pose
additional safety risks. However, the international oil and gas industry has
developed sophisticated techniques and standard safety, operations and
maintenance codes that are being stringently followed by EGPC and its
operating companies in the Gulf of Suez areas, both offshore and onshore. As
a result of this, EGIC operating companies have demonstrated a satisfactory



- 71 -
Amrex MI
Page 11 of 16
operating record in terms of safety and environmental impact. Therefore, the
physical risks in the proposed project are minimal. During the last Bank-
financed project (LN 2103-EGT), stringent safety codes were followed and found
satisfactory. With the arrangements made for third-party inspection services
(to be obtained from renowned firms, e.g., Lloyd's Register of Shipping),
sufficient safeguards for safety in installation and commissioning have been
provided.
The commercial risks for this project are minimal, as the associated gas
supply is expected to be adequate over the project life, and the availAbility
of additional dry natural gas, LPG and natural gas liquids would significantly
benefit Egypt in terms of minimizing the cost of energy supply and reducing
the environmental impact of hydrocarbon fuel use.
H: %gbaed%agy%am*x6 . oar



TRANS GULF GAS COMPONENT
Detailed Cost Flow
FY92               FY93                FY94           Total Cost
Loc.  For.  Tot.  Loc.  For.  Tot.  Loc.  For.  Tot.  Loc.  For.  Tot.
Surveys                              0.1   0.2   0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.2   0.3
Basic Engineering and Design         0.2   0.3   0.5   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2   0.3   0.5
Subtotal                        0.3   0.5   0.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3   0.5   0.8
Sinai/Belaim Area
-Gas Compressor Package           0.1   0.2   0.3   0.1   1.0   1.1   0.0   0.3   0.3   0.9   1.5   1.7
-Bulk Material Equipment          0.0   0.4   0.4   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.2   0.7   0.9
-Construction                     0.1   0.1   0.2   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.4   0.6
-Project Man't/Const'n Supv.    0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.2   0.3
Subtotal                       0.2   0.8   1.0   0.4   1.4   1.8   0.1   0.6   0.7   0.7   2.8   3.5
Offshore October Platform
-Template                         0.1   0.4   0.5   0.3   1.6   1.9   0.2             0.2   0.6   2.0   2.6
-Gas Compressor Package           0.9   1.4   2.3   0.9   6.9   7.8   0.0   2.1   2.1   1.8  10.4  12.2
-Construction                     0.2   0.5   0.7   0.2   1.0   1.2   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.5   1.6   2.1
-Project Man't/Const'n Supv.    0.1   0.2   0.3   0.2   0.5   0.7   0.1   0.5   0.6   0.4   1.2   1.6
Subtotal                       1.3   2.5   3.8   1.6  10.0  11.6   0.4   2.7   3.1   3.3  15.2  18.5
Belaim/October Submarine P'line
-Material and Equipment           0.1   0.4   0.5   0.1   1.0   1.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2   1.4   1.6
-Construction                     0.1   0.1   0.2   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.3   0.4
-Project Man't/Const'n Supv.    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1
Subtotal                       0.2   0.5   0.7   0.1   1.2   1.3   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.3   1.8   2.1
West Bank Facilities
Gas Compressors                   0.1   1.0   1.1   0.7   7.6   8.3   0.2   0.4   0.6   1.0   9.0  10.0
Dehydration Unit                  0.1   0.2   0.3   0.6   0.4   1.0   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.8   0.7   1.5
Refrigeration Package             0.1   0.5   0.6   0.5   4.0   4.5   0.1   0.5   0.6   0.7   5.0   5.7
Bulk Material and Equipment       0.1   0.3   0.4   0.5   1.9   2.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.6   2.2   2.8
Construction                      0.2   0.3   0.5   0.6   2.0   2.6   0.2   0.4   0.6   1.0   2.7   3.7
Consulting Svcs for Proiect       0.1   0.8   0.9   0.5   1.0   1.5   0.2   1.0   1.2   0.8   2.8   3.6
Subtotal                       0.7   3.1   3.8   3.4  16.9  20.3   0,8   2.4   3.2   4.9  22.4  27.3
Total Base Cost                     2.7   7.4  10.1   5.5  29.5  35.0   1.3   5.8   7.1   9.5  42.7  52.2
Physical Contingency                0.2   0.5   0.7   0.4   1.9   2.3   0.1   0.4   0.5   0.6   2.8   3.4                x
Price Contingency                   0.3   0.9   1.3   0.7   3.7   4.4   0.2   0.7   0.9   1.2   5.4   6.6
Base Cost incl. contingencies       3.2   8.8  12.0   6.6  35.1  41.7   1.5   6.9   8.5  11.3  50.9  62.2              0
Interest During Construction        0.0   0.3   0.3   0.0   2.1   2.1   0.0   0.7   0.7   0.0   3.1   3.1              0
Total Cost                          3.2   9.1  12.4   6.6  37.2  43.8   1.5   7.6   9.1  11.3  54.0  65.3



- 73-                 !S_y
Page 13 of 16
Producton Data
(as of 1/1/91)
Estimated Proven Oil Reserves             . 4,500 MM Barrels
Estimated Proven Gas Reserves             : 12,400 BCF
No. of Producing wells                    . 896
Estimated 1990 Daily Production             873,000 B/D
Percent Change From 1989                 : +2.6 percent
R£eLnin
No. of Refineries                         .8
Crude Refining Capacity                   : 523,153 BOPD
Thermal Operations                        : 16,470 BOPD
Catalytic Reforming                       : 33,540 BOPD
Catalytic Cracking                        . Nil
Gas Processing CaRacity
(as of 1/1/91)
A.   Summary
Total No.of Gas Processing Plants   : 8
Gas Capacity                        : 1320 MHSCFD
Avg Gas Throughput During 1989       : 1188 MMSCFD S
Production (Average based on past 12 months
L.P.G. mix                          : 691,700 gallons/day
Other NGL                           : 1,158,500 gallons/day
Total Products                      : 1,1850,200 gallons/day
1 To be verified with EGPC



B. Gas Processing U_its
(Data us of 1/1/91)
Process                        Production
Comoanv Location          Gas Capact      Gas througbDut    Conditi                       in 1000 gal/dav
(MMSCFD)                                           LPG     NGL    Others
Amoco Egypt Oil Co.          125.0             101.0          Cryogenic expander/       103.3    ....    84.9
Dahshour, Abu Gharadig                                     stabilizer
Desert, Block 30
Egyptian General             132.0             124.0         Absorption/stabilizer      ....     ....   210.9
Petroleum Corp. -
Abu Gharadig field,
286 km west of Cairo,
Western Desert
Abu Nadi LTS plant and       242.0             236.0         Absorption/Cryogenic       ....     ....   203.0
field, K. Sheikh                                             Joule
Abu Nadi LPG plant and       236.0             225.0         Absorption/stabilizer       60.4   ...    215.0  >
and field, K. Sheikh                                                                                            I
Abu Qir plant and field      206.0             198.0         Absorption/stabilizer       48.8    ....   206.2
offshore, 60 km east
of Alexandria
Dahshour, Abu Charadig       124.0             118.0         Cryogenic Expander         132.0    ....    ....
field, 65 km west of
Cairo, Giza
Ras-Shukeir                  177.0             131.0         Refrigeration/absorption/ 283.2    ....   190.7
stabilizer
Zeit Bay                       78.0             55.0         Absorption/refrigertation ..0..Q            48.4.
Total                  1,320.0          1,180.0                                    691.7         1,158.5      Ix
0



75 -               iam~~hnex VI
Page 15 of 16
Gas Com2ogitions/Plouct
Strea            BelaYXLmLinai         9Sx8L:r         mixed
Composition (NOL X)
H120                          0.01                 1.63          1.07
C02                           0.83                 3.37          2.50
N2                            0.78                 0.87          0.84
CH4                          65.74                57.24         60.14
C2H6                         19.57                14.43         16.19
ONH                          12.56                12.07         12.24
I'4110                       0.18                 1.77          1.23
tAH10                         0.29                 4.48          3.05
C5H12                         0.02                 1.26          0.84
C5H12                         0.02                 1.44          0.95
C5H14 +                         I                  JA4          0.95Q.2
H2S (parts per million)        11                  10            10
Design flows NMSCFD (dry basis)



EGYPT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
FOR TRANS GULF GAS PROJECT
DURATION
DESCRIPllON                                            IN MONTHS
_  1 2 3 4 5 _  7 8 9 10 1112 13 14 15 11617 1819201211222 1N 2526 27  2 0031312 33
ONSHO(EI OFFSHORE SURVEY
WF-4U4IET & DEWVERY
SStdB~AYtM AREAH 1I
GASCOMPRESSOR PACKAGE               . . >       m   * * * m          .
(GA BGMDRW"
ItL MATEPJAL
owwON WORK
OFFSHORtE OCTOBER PLATFORM
TW A E  (800 TON)                          0q  U   _    .   U   _    _    U" x0   00  000  00  @00  00  @0  00  00  0
1=-E   (oI - t  Il  
BOOS!  COW. PKG (2 UNIS                 um *urm mm                   m     'c
(CAS lURSIN DFIVEN
RAS BAKR FACILITIE
GAS COM[PRESSOS Rr*                u                m               u      '
(GASTUI3U4E U I
GLYCOL_  t                               u.n _ _...... .
P VESSEI.S &H. EXCHAN'GERS              *u m                     
*LLK M-TERAL
CONSTRUCTION WORK
COMM. & STARr-UP 
UESBRD         BIDDING                 UDELiVER FOSBARCTO
BID EVAWLATION           *DEUVERY AT SrrEINTLAO
-PLACING FORMAL P.O.    oceecc CONSTRUCTION WORK
S.umw ENPPl                                                                                     wpIAmlAw49097a



- 77 -
Ann-- Vil
Page 1 of 2
EGYPT
GAS INVESTMENT PROJECT
Gas Market DeveloRment
The Cairo gas distribution network consists of a relatively low
proportion of gas sales to commercial and industrial consumers. As the cost
of distribution to residential consumers is relatively high, primarily caused
by cost of piping installation, and consumption is low, residential supply is
less commercially viable than sales to other sectors. These issues need to be
addressed along wfth pricing so that a rational market development strategy
can evolve. The market development strategy was discussed with Petrogas, and
it was agreed that a study be initiated with the objective of reviewing
strategies to increase the penetration of gas sales to the commercial and
industrial market as well as to develop new markets, such as for gas-based air
conditioning. The study should also identify the areas where the cost of
distribution could be reduced or the operational capabilities of Petrogas be
enhanced. For example, a building construction code should be developed and
ratified so that the new buildings in the existing or foreseeable gas areas
are equipped with one gas piping installation during the building
construction. Furthermore, the study should provide a training component to
strengthen Petrogas' market development and operational capability.
The scope of the study would consist of:
1.   the establishment of a core of gas sales engineers consisting of
about five engineers who would be trained in sales promotion in
the commercial and industrial markets. The members of this core
should be capable of negotiating gas sales contracts with
industrial and large commercial consumers involving inter-fuels
relationships, conversion costs and economics of gas use from the
standpoint of consumers. The unit should also include a woman
who would focus on the cooking aspects of natural gas use, payiug
particular attention to the changes in cooking practices that
would enhance safety and energy conservation;
2.   the surveying of markets in Greater Cairo and Alexandria;
3.   the preparation of a feasibility study for gas distribution in
Alexandria;
4.   the improvement of emergency maintenance operations and customer
services;
5.   the identification of cost reduction measures such as
incorporating the installation of gas piping in the building
construction codes;



- 78 -
Annex VII
Page 2 of 2
6.   a study of the uses of supervisory control and data acquisition
system in maximizing gas distribution efficiency in Cairo;
7.   the establishment of a computerized design and cost estimate
center;
8.   the improvement of safety engineering practices and the
development of a modern reporting system; and
9.   the identification of training requirements and the preparation
and implementation of a training program.
N: \*az.d\Sery\anmwx. sar



- 79-                      Annex VIII
Page 1 of 3
EGYPT
GAS INVESTMENT PROJECT
Refinery Sector Investment Planning Study
Terms of Reference
Introduction
1.          The Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC), a para-statal,
owns and controls six wholly owned refineries located at Cairo, Suez,
Alexandria, and Assiut in Upper Egypt. Tne individual subsidiary refineries
are managed by boards of directors and operate the facilities for a refining
fee, ixed annually by EGPC. The refineries, except for three lube production
and one delayed coking facilities, are of simple hydro-skimming or topping
configuration and process domestic crude oils. Refined products are marketed
by Misr Petroleum Company and the Cooperative Petroleum Company, both fully
owned subsidiaries of EGPC, as well as by Mobil, Esso and Caltex at the retail
level.
2.          There are significant mismatches between the production of refined
products from domestic refining and demand, resulting in significant exports
of fuel oil and naphtha and imports of gas oil and LPG. The surplus of fuel
oil is expected to increase with the increased substitution of fuel oil by
natural gas. EGPC has been planning to install secondary processing
facilities to convert surplus fuel oils to higher value distillates, including
a hydrocracker.
3.          In order to develop a rational investment program over the next 5
to 10-year time frame for the refining and distribution subsector, EGPC
intends to carry out a consultant study, as well as acquire in-house
institutional capabilities in the methodologies and techniques for medium to
long-term investment planning. The objectives of the investment program would
be to minimize the cost of products supply, consistent with future demand
growth and with the product specification changes over time.
4.          Consistent with the above-mentioned objectives, the consultant
would carry out the following tasks.
a)    Future demand estimates:  The consultant would analyze
historic consumption, by major energy and non-energy
products, with reference to the major factors that affect
demand such as GDP growth, prices of competing products,
automobile fleet growth, population etc. and would develop
appropriate equations to explain historic consumption and to
project demand over the period up to the year 2005. The
demand projections would take into account the increase of
gas use.



- 80 -
Annex VIII
Page 2 of 3
b)    grices:  The consultant would develop scenarios for
petroleum and product prices translated to each refinery
location and to each major distribution storage point in the
country, for purposes of economic comparison of various
investment options as inputs to investment planning model.
c)    Matbematical model for investment planning:  The consultant
would develop a mathematical model (suitable for EGPC
computing systems) that would be capable of analyzing the
impact of investment options on the cost of product supply
through a combination of domestic refining, imports and
exports. For this purpose, the consultant would consider
all domestic crude oils and an agreed list of four foreign
crude oils for refining at each existing refinery location.
(d)   Investment Program:  The consultant would run the developed
model to determine the effects on costs of product supply,
consistent with the demand projections, of the following
options: (i) import all products to meet demand without
domestic refining (for the purposes of establishing a
reference case); (ii) supply products while operating the
refineries with current crude slates, capacity utilization,
and operating practices, without new investments; (iii)
supply products when the crude slate, capacity utilization,
imports and exports are optimized, but without new
investments; (iv) supply products under optimized crude
slate and imports and exports, and use new process unit and
energy conservation investment options at each refining
location. The model's logic and structure should be capable
of handling variations in input data, and of expressing the
defined objective functions as discrete output. Capital
costs used for investment options inputs should have an
accuracy of ± 20 percent.
e)    Deliverables:  The techniques used and results of the study,
together with explanations, should be presented as follows:
(i) products demand projections;
(ii) price projections;
(iii) the structure and logic of the model, and model
software;
(iv) capital and operating cost estimates for investment
options;
(v) recommendations on future investments at any or all
locations, capital cost estimates and a time schedule
for the implementation of such investments; and



- 81 -
Annex VIII
Page 3 of 3
(vi) a data base on the crude oil analyses used for model
software generation and on investment options
analyses.
f)    Two representatives of EGPC would participate with the
consultant for the duration of this study. The consultant
would submit a draft report six months after the effective
date of the contract, for review, comments and discussions
with EGPC and the World Bank. Following the receipt of such
comments, the consultant would submit the final study report
within six weeks. Concurrently, t'"e consultant would
install the model at EGPC and train EGPC personnel in the
hands-on use of the model.
M: \ubared\say\arwex9. sar



- 82 -
Annex TX
Page 1 of 2
EGYPT
GAS INVESTMENT PROJECT
Gulf of Suez Gas Develo2ment Study
Terms of Reference
Introduction
The Gulf of Suez has been the most prolific oil-producing area in
Egypt. Currently, over 85 percent of the total oil production comes from over
50 oilfields in the Gulf of Suez area. Associated gas is produced with oil in
varying quantities, dependent on gas oil ratios and other reservoir
characteristics.
Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) is currently
utilizing some of the associated gas to supply Egyptian consumers. However,
some associated gas is being flared. As the oilfields are depleted, the gas
oil ratios tend to increase, whilst oil p.oduction declines and increasing
relative quantities of associated gas continue to be produced. In addition,
EGPC and other international oil companies (IOCs) operating in the Gulf of
Suez area have been exploring and have discovered new oil and non-associated
gas fields. With continued exploration, there is a high probability of
finding additional oil and gas reserves in the near future.
Obiective
The objective of the proposed study is to update the previous
studies and:
(i)   to evaluate the present and the prospective gas supply potential
of the Gulf of Suez area with a view to maximize the utilization
of associated and nonassociated gas and minimize the flaring of
associated gas;
(ii) to develop an optimal transmission and distribution system
integrating the existing gas transmission and distribution system
with the medium- and long-term gas development and utilization
plans; and
(iii)    to provide EGPC with the economic evaluation of various investment
scenarios based on a phased-gas development strategy to meet the
medium- and long-term gas demands of Egypt.
ScoRe of Wo-rk
In order to achieve the objectives of this study, the consultant
or the entity undertaking the task would:



- 83 -
Annex IX
Page 2 of 2
(i)   review the geological, reservoir and production data on the oil
and gas fields in the Gulf of Suez and Sinai area;
(ii)  collate and integrate the data relating to the availability of
recoverable gas reserves (both associated and nonassociated) and
develop gas deliverability profiles for the next twenty years;
(iii)   review the gas prospects from the fields discovered but not yet
developed, as well as evaluate potential gas reserves in the Gulf
of Suez area;
(iv)  review past and present development costs for the existing fields
with a view to prepare investment plans to optimize the
utilization of (a) associated gas from existing fields; (b) the
development of gas discovered from new fields, both oil and
nonassociated gas in the Gulf of Suez and Sinai areas; and (c)
est:imate the costs for discovery and for the development of new
gas prospects;
(v)   review the existing gas gathering, transportation compression and
distribution system;
(vi)  review the gas demand forecast of EGPC for the medium and long
term;
(vii)   evaluate transmission and distribution options with a view to
optimize the existing system and develop least-cost options for
investment in gas transmission and distribution systems;
(viii)  make recommendations that would enable EGPC to prepare its
investment plans to maximize gas development and utilization from
the Gulf of Suez and Sinai area; and
(ix)  prepare an environmental assessment consistent with the guidelines
of the Government and the Bank.
U: %dw*\aqvmz1O. seg



- 84 -
Annex X
Page 1 of 2
GAS INVESTMENT PROJECT
Cost of Gas Distribution
Terms of RefeLrnce
Thie current tariffs charged by Petrogas have remained unchanged
since 1981 and bear little relation to the costs of distribution or to
alternate fuel costs.  In order to achieve the anticipated financial and
economic benefits from the GCGDEP, it is important that a new and more
appropriate tariff structure for residential and commercial consumers is put
in place.
In addition, the contractual and regulatory environment for
natural gas distribution shoutld be examined and appropriate changes
implemented. This is particularly important if Petrogas is to extend natural
gas distribution to a substantial number of larger commercial consumers (e.g.,
hotels, hospitals etc.). For these consumers, a proper framework of contracts
and obligations is essential.
The study would:
1.    assess the current level of tariffs in relation to the pattern of
consumption and costs of alternative fuels (both current and
expected);
2.    calculate the appropriate fixed and variable costs to be allocated
to gas distribution;
3.    advise on practices adopted by other gas utilities both in
developed and developing countries;
4.    address the particular aspects of gas distribution in Egypt that
call for specific tariff structures;
5.    determine the best practice for offering incentives to commercial
and small industrial consumers to convert to natural gas;
6.    formulate a set of contracts for Petrogas sales to commercial and
small industrial consumers;
7.    assess the status of gas distribution within the legal framework
prevailing in Egypt and advise on any changes to ensure proper
regulation of gas distribution; and



- 85 -
Annex X
Page 2 of 2
8.    formulate a complete tariff structure and contractual framework
for all classes of consumers to address the requirements of
economic efficiency in fuel Oistribution and financial viability
for Petrogas.
This study should be carried out with the assistance of
consultants as soon as possible, preferably prior to the commencement of gas
consumption under the project. There should be a very close link between the
work of this study and other market studies to be funded under the project.
M: *ha*d\saz\ami11 . 6ar



-86 -                     Annex XI
Page 1 of 1
GAS INVESTMENT PROJECT
Project SuDervision Plan
1.    Records will be maintalned shoving original schedule against actual
achievements and supplied to the Bank at agreed intervals on the following
aspects:
(a) procurement action by bid packages (bid specifications, bid
invitation, opening of bids, bid evaluation, award of contract,
signing of contract and contract price as amended from time to
time);
(b) physical progress according to project components and contracts
(highlighting critical activities and bottlenecks);
(e) actual project costs and expenditures (local and foreign) and
estimated remaining expenditure (local and foreign) projected
quarterly through project completion;
gd) disbursement schedule (for the Bank loans and other loans);
(e) information on problems encountered during implementation (including
major mishaps) and expected impact on commissioning schedules; and
(f) minutes of the meetings and progress reports of the consultants.
2.   The proposed Bank supervision missions and their composition would be as
follows:
miaeLLQ                        COMpositi2D             Proposed Dates
Project launch mission        Gas (upstream) Specialist          September 1991
Gas (downstream) Specialist
Financial Analyst
Project supervislon and       Gas (upstream) Specialist         March 1992
Study revLew                  Gas (downstream) Specialist
Energy Economist
Financial Analyst
Project supervisLon           Gas (upstream) Specialist         Twice/year
Gas (downstream) Specialist       1992-1994
Financial Analyst
Project supervision           Gas (downstream) Specialist       Twice/year
Financial Analyst                 1995-1997
N:%dienAs*&7%=e1Leet



- 87 -
Annex XII
Page 1 of 9
CAS INVESTHENT PROJECT
EGPC Financial Performance
1. Domestic Energy Prices: assumed to reach 100 percent of international
prices by FY96 including alignment of the petroleum and official exchange
rates by the start of FY91.
2. Crude Oil Output: assumed to maintain current output levels of 870,000
bbls/day until FY93 then decline by 4 percent per annum thereafter.
3. E=yvt's Share of Oil Production: residual after assumed foreign oil
company cost recovery of US$1,600 million, to a minimum of 70 percent and a
maximum of 85 percent.
4. Condensate: assumed to be 15 percent of equivalent natural gas
production, with 50 percent available for petroleum product production.
5. Refinery OutRut: current capacity of 21.4 million metric tonnes assumed
to be increased by 10 percent in both FY92 and FY94, with the same product
slate.
6. Crude Oil Exports: residual after refinery requirements and 5 percent
refinery losses.
7. Petroleum Product Demand: product demand growth based on assumed price
elasticities (-0.05 to -0.20) and underlying GDP (4.0 percent) or population
(2.3 percent) based growth.
8. Natural Gas Substitution: annual fuel oil demand reduced by 100 percent
of equivalent natural gas sales to the power sector, 67 percent of equivalent
gas sales to industry, and 100 percent of gas sales to construction and
cement. Gas-oil demand reduced by 33 percent of equivalent natural gas sales
to industry.
9. Product ExVorts: difference between refinery output and domestic demand.
10. Product Exnort Revenues: increased from FY90 base by assumed changes in
international crude oil prices.
11. Gas Production Cos;s: based on assumed output from "old" versus "new" gas
fiel' . and an assumed price of 40 percent of fuel oil equivalent for "new"
gas.
12. Domestic Product Sales: based on estimated sales and assumed domestic
price changes (see point 1) for petroleum produczs and Petrogas purchases of
natural gas (see Petrogas asstumptions).



- 88 -
Annex XII
Page 2 of 9
13. Ahar In-AffiWiagt-e rm-fits:  set to 5 percent of product revenues.
14. Cost of PMrchases: set to gas purchase costs plus historic average
petroleum product purchase costs, which are assumed to increase with inflation
and output.
15. 2natin&--Costs:  asstmed to increase directly with inflation and
production.
16. Depreciation: set to 9 percent of historic valued assets.
17. Foreign Exchange Losses: amortized at 9 percant per annum.
18. Royalties: set to 3 percent of sales revenues as per historic average.
19. Social Bank Payment:  EGPC is exempt from these payments.
20. Income Taxes: effective tax rate of 25 percent of income before tax
assumed as per historic average.
21. Surplus Payout: set to 75 percent of income after tax as per historic
average.
22. Working Capital:  set to maintain current ratio of 1.1 excluding cash used
as balance item in projections.
H: \shared\gry\annexl3 . ar



- 89 -
hab RFmbrie of EgYM                Annex XII
ILvem-mog                     Page 3 of 9
Actual mid DriecteV FG Sfor-EGPC
01-Apr-91                          AsswmqIr
EY-88          Y yn   FY91   FY92          FY94  FY95  fY96  FY97
Price Assumoticna Ys                                                                        9
Local inflation           14%    21%    23%    20Q%    28%    15%   9.0%0  6.0%   5.0%   5.0%
Foreign Inflation        8.6%   3.5%   3.0%   7.7%   5.1%   0.4%   0.6%   2.7%   3.9%   4.4%
Local Pr. Index (FY91=100)   58.7  67.1   81.3   100    128    147    160    170    179    188
Foreign Pr.Andex (FY91=10    86.4   93.8   97.1   100    105    105    106    109    113    118
Real Exchange Rate Devaluation                         0%     0%     0%/0   0%     0%      096
Petroleum Exchange Rate    0.70   0.70   1.03   2.31   3.95   4.67   5.20   5.50   5.62   5.66
Exchange Rate (LEI$)       2    2.38   2.65   2.91   3.95   4.67   5.20   5.50   5.62   5.66
International Crude Oil Prices
Bank Forecast Calendar Yr   13.6   16.3   21.2   20.5   17.3   18.5   19.6   20.9   22.6   24.5
r-olowing Based on IBRD Forecast
Crude Oil (S/bbl)         15.4   15.0   18.8   20.9   18.9   17.9   19.1   20.3   21.8   23.6
Crude Oil ($/bbl 1990 price    17.8   15.9   19.3   20.9   18.0   17.0   18.0   18.6   19.2   19.9
Annual Real Increase     -12%   -11%    21%     8%   -14%    -6%     6%     4%      3%     4%
DomesticEneEraPrces            weightedavg.    41%    89%   104%   104%   103%   111%   109%
(Nominal Index FY91=100)
Fuel Oil                   56     70     70    100    160   271    382    597    876    957
% of Economic Pnce       29%    30%    46%    24%    28%    40%h   55%    74%   100%   100o
LPG                                      65    100    11t   218    286    416    568    620
% of Economic Price                           23%    23%    37%    48%    60%    75%    75%
Gasoline                                 74    100    133    179    177    183    198    216
% of Economic Price      65%                 142%   133%   163%   155%   139%   139%   139%
Kerosene                                 74    100    200    327    426    616    836    913
% of Economic Price                           21%    30%    51%    64%    80%   100%   100%h
Gas Oil                                        100    200    339    445    648    886    968
% of Economic Price                           23%    33%    49%    62%h   79%   100%   100%
Other Products                           74    100    133    149    177    199    218    238
% of Economic Price                           75%   100%   100%   100%/o  100%   100%   100%
Domestic Enerav Prices
(Nominai Prices)
Fuel Oil (LE/mt)          28.0   35.0   35.0    50      80    136    191    299    438    478
LPG(p/litre)                  LEtbottle        1.5    2.0    3.3    4.3    6.2    8.5    9.3
Gasoline (p/litre)                              56      72     97     96     99    107    117
Kerosene (plitre)                                10     20     33     43     62     84    91
Gas Oil (p/litre)                                10     20     34     44     65     89     97
Other Products (LE/mt)                          100    200    224    265    298    327    357
Fuel Oil (LE/mt)          28.0   35.0   35.0    50      80    136    191    299    438    478
LPG (LEtmt)                                     120    160    262    343    499    682    744
Gasoline (LEtmt)                               783   1012   1360   1340   1391   1504   1642
Kerosene (LEImt)                                126    252    412    537    776   1053   1150
GasOil(LE/mt)                                   120    240    407    533    778   1064   1161
Other Products (LE/mt)                          100    200    224    265    298    327    357



- 90 -                          Annex XII
AlabReoub&dEaZ                 Page 4 ot 9
AlU and  LrbZfe ed  o-r EGPC
01 Apr-91                     ()est   (est)  (etl)  (est)  (e7t)
Eroduytbnlo A 5y%  rts   FY88  FY89  F90 -FY91  fY92  F93  FY94  F95  FY6E9
fyj~~  ____~    9                            000  38,48 6,
crude Oil uttXO mt) 44,200 44,200 43 00 43,   43,   43500 41'760
'000 Baneiffda           884    884   870    870   870   870   835    802    770   739
Pecent Increase           0%     0%   -2%    0%    0%    0%   -4%    -4%   -4%   -4%
EgypWs Share d Cnude Oi  30,100 29,676 31,320 32,951 31,863 31,212 30,214 29d228 28,380 27,613
In Pemrntage            68%   67%   72%    76%   73%   72%   72%    73%   74%   75%
CostRecove.yPmts. mln.  1,370  1,370  1,440  1,387  1,387  1,387  1.387  1,387  1,387  1,387
pMgg ProdM   roo0 M0
LPG                      280   285   285        0      0      0      0      0      0      0
GasolineTN~ha           3,380  3,400  3,400  3.400  3,400  3,740  4,114  4,114  4,114  4,114
Kerosene                2,447  2,530  2,530  2,530  2,530  2,783  3,061  3,061  3.061  3,061
Jet Fuel                  170   170   170   170   170   187   206    206   206   206
Gasliesel Oi            3,613  3,600  3,600  3,600  3,600  3,960  4,356  4,356  4,356  4,356
Fuel il                10,380 10,450 10,450 10,450 10,450 11,495 12,645 12,645 12,645 12,645
AspthsX                  583   651   651   651   651    716   788    788   788   788
Lube 00                  185   208    206   206   206   227   250   250   250   250
Othem                    307   343   343    343   343   378    416   416   416   416
Total                  21,345 21,636 21,83  21,X5T 21,M-5  23,4M  25,83  25,83  25,09 25,835
Crude Oil Exports ('000 nt)  10,003  8,661  8,25 11,103 10,123  7,440  4,021  3,032  2,191  1,420
ratio actual to est. exports   124%   119%   91%   100%
Petroleum Product  0e0 mt)
LPG                      (70)       (60)   (20)  0     0      0      0      0      0     0
Butane Gas               (79)    28    41       0      0      0      0      0     0      0
Naptha/Gasoline        1,106  1,270  1,428  1,210  1,178  1,537  1,814  1,751  1,711  1,675
Kenosene                                       92    66   318   563  1,437  1,416  1,337
Jet Fuel                (30    (52)   224   237   255)  (2457  (258)  (278)  (300)  (322)
Gas OWDiese             (676   (779)   774   968)   827)   245)   34    312   297    134
Fuel OI                  636    884  1,022     77  1 140  4,687  6,210  5,494  4,876  3,887
Bunker Fuel            1,378  1,716  1,952  1,834  1,834  1,834  1,834  1,834  1,834  1,834
Other                            46    51    25)   fM        74   184    139    92    43
Total Net Exports       2,026  2,853  3,476  1,983  3,110  7,948  10651  10688  9927  8588
Total Expowts           3,151  3,944  4,494  3,213  4,218  8,450  10909  10966  10226  8910
Total Imports           1,125  1,091  1,018  1,230  1,108   802   258    278   300   322



- 91 -                         Annex XII
Page 5 of 9
01-Apr 91               actua  (Ms)  (ast)  (est)  (es)   (es)   ( -)  (es)
0-MeWISt C;EMons         FY83  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  fY94  FY95  FY9   FY97
Ful ON                 4,144  3,993  4,143  4,004  3,76   3,298  2,944  2,895  2,798  2,896
Fuel Oil Power         4,144  3,993  4,143  4,535  3,712  1,676  1,656  2,422  3,136  4,027
Gas Oi                 1,022  1,043  1,012  1,060   987   895    826    804   788   819
Gas Oi Tmnspont        3,065  3,128  3,361  3,518  3,441  3,310  3,226  3,240  3,271  3,402
Kerosene               2,406  2,422  2,358  2,438  2,464  2,465  2,498  1,624  1,645  1,724
Gasoline               2,121  2,096  2,174  2,190  2,222  2,203  2,300  2,363  2,403  2,439
Jet Fuel                 390   390   390   407   425   444    463   484   505   527
Lube Oils                185   206   206   208   206   227    250   250   250   250
Other                   A     1020  1   0201.    1.020  1.02   1.020  1j065  1.112  1.161
Petroleum Products      87497  11   1619368  18241  15538  1518   15146  15908  17246
Natural ¢as §ae
LmilKncubic meters)
Domestic                  60    65      70    73    76    85        97    110   123   138
Commercial                 0      1      2      2      2     6      14    22    31    40
FertiTcer              1,147  1,161  1,251  1,147  1,323  1,530  1,612  1,864  1,685  1,706
Constr/Petrol            719   710   922  1,726  1,768  1,933  2,078  2,098  2,202  2,305
Industry                 743   828   931  2,129  2,212  2,305  2,398  2,491  2,594  2,698
Power CC/CT            4,105  4,377  2,580  2.801  2,532  3,204  3,918  3,918  3.918  3,918
Power Steam                0      0  2111  1.083  2.599  4.09  4.199  3.961  3.815  3.514
Total                    67774  7142  78   8962  10612  13572  14316  14264  14368  14316
LPG Sale f0 Lonnes)
Dlomesic                 616   631    647   642   614   626    638  1.496  1,509  1,504
Commercial               140   158   193   199   204   207    207   207   206   205
Investment Companies       3                    6      6                   6  6       6
Total                    759   792   846   847   824   840    852  1,709  1,721  1,715
Revenues from Petroas
Gas Revenues             192   232   315   412   662  1,595  2,428  3,843  5,741  6,295
LPG Revenues               7      8      9    39    78   104   162   647   9866  1,435
Average Increase of
Petroleum + Gas Supply     6%Y    1%    5%    6%    1%    0%         1%    3%    3%    4%



Annex XII
Page 6 of  9
Aolual a     de                   for EGPC
01-Ar91                        (est )            (est)(et    ed (sl (s) (s)
Value of Ex   01s a pd Sale   FY89  FY90  FY91  F9                    F4  FY95          FYe9)
a      d l n             1,104    819    892  TM    ia7    441    353 2
Total (mln. LE)           773   573    922  3,078  4,352  3,578  2,293  1,943  1,542  1,091
Avg Rev (LEln mid 1990 pr   132    99    137   277    336    327    355    377    394    410
Avg. Rev. ($mt mid 199 pr  $128   $101   $111   $120   $104    $96   $103   $107   $111   $115
Avg Rev. Wbbl current   $14.9  $12.7  $14.5  $16.2  $14.7  $13.9  $14.8  $15.7  $16.9  $18.3
Discount on OPEC Avg.    $0.5   $2.2   $4.2   $4.7  $4.2   $4.0   $4.3   $4.5   $4.9   $5.3
% of Benchmark OPEC Pric e  97%    85%    78%6   78%   78%    78%    78%    78%    78%    78%
Net PetEoleum Product gupm (minm
Butane Gas               (15)    (2)    (1)     0      0      0      0      0       0     0
Naptha                   162    182    224   211    186    230    289    296   311    330
Kerosene                                       23     15    67    126    341    362    370
Jet Fuel                  3E)   (2)   (28   ((33) (32    (30)   (32)   (37    (43)   (50)
Gas OiVDiesel            (97)  (109   (137   (190)  (147    41      54      59    61      30
Fuel Oil                  57    63      84      7     94    367    518    487    465   401
Bunker Fuel              146    164   203    212    192    182    194    206    222   240
Other                      4     15    20       I f          28     73    59      42    21
Total (mln. $)            221    285    366    219   298    802  1,222  1,412  1,418  1.341
Total (min. LE)           155    200    378    506  1,179  3,745  6,352  7,763  7,966  7.594
Tal Exports (min $)      1,325  1,104  1,268  1.552  1,400  1,569  1,663  1,765  1,693  1,534
(constant mid 90 prices)  1.533  1,177  1,295  1,552  1,332  1,488  1,567  1,620  1,495  1,298
Domes  Ses EGPC
FuiuOlD                                       427   598    675    878  1,587  2,60n1  3.312
Gas Oi Transport                              548  1,063  1,711  2,162  3,144  4,317  4,902
Kerosene                                      307   621  1,016  1,340  1,260  1,733  1,983
Gasoline                                     1,716  2,248  2,997  3,082  3,286  3,615  4,006
Jet Fuel                                       51    107    183   249    376    532   607
Other                                         123   245    279    337    392    446   -4
Total Petroleum Products  2006   2152   2271   517   42   6861   8        10046  13243  15314
osts an uRevenues
Fuel Dcosi( lmi)          74    72      90    101    91      a6    92      98    105    114
Gas Cosit(%rueliEquiv    4%    5%       6%     5%    8%    15%    16%    17%    18%    19%
Annual as Costs ($ m:n)   14    21      36     44    68    165    200    222    252    284
EGPC Gas Revenues (LE)    192   232    315    412   662  1,595  2,428  3.843  5,741  6,295
NetGasRevenues(LE)       182   217    278   311    395   824  1,387  2.620  4,325  4,687



-93                           Annex XII
Ara Rob    of E                 Page 7 of 9
G-as InvesS.nent Loan
Actual and px-cted Fn W_ Slate tements for EGPC
01-Apr-91             (prelim)  (est)  (est)  (est)  (est)  (est)  (est)  (est)
Revenues                FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  F93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97
Domesi   Sales
Petroleum Products    2,006  2,152  2,271  3,172  4,882  6,861  8,048 10,046 13,243 15,314
Crude Oil              248    338    175      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
Natural Gas            159     Q    292   406   §6Z  11,530  2,331  4.042  6,036  6,
Sub-total             2,413  2,678  2,738  3,578  5,549  8,390 10,379 14,088 19,279 22.271
Expor Sales
Crude Oil              913   763    922  3,078  4,352  3,578  2,293  1,943  1,542  1,091
Net Petrol Products    120   2       378   506  1..79  3.74S  6.352  7.763  7.96fi  -594
Sub-total             1,033   963  1,300  3,584  5,530  7,323  8,646  9,707  9,508  8,685
Total Sales            3,446  3,641  4,038  7,162 11,079 15,713 19,025 23,794 28,787 30,957
Share in Affiliate Profits     (est)  (est)
and Management Fees    489   448   b26   546   554    786    95   1.190  1.439  1,548
Total Revenues          3,935  4,089  4,584  7,708 11,633 16,499 19,976 24,984 30,226 32,504
CosOt and EXpenSeS
Cost of Purchases      1,641  2,053  2,581  3,189  4,220  5,772  7,037  7,578  8,088  8,615
Operating Expenses       327   327    327   414   499   489   521    551    608   692
DePreCiatiOn             140   119   154   205   260   360   478    610    754   907
ROYaltieS                120   100    187   215   332   471    571    714   864   929
FOreinr Exchange Losses    0      0      0     17    50     83     90    92    88    81
IntereSt & Debt Expenses  25    23      20    48    70    72    69        57      43    28
Income Taxes            395   333   321    869    514  2.277  2.766  3!80   4 909  5.277
Total                   2,648  2,955  3,590  4,956  6,946  9,524 11.5532 13,412 15,353 16,528
Net Profit After Tax    1,287  1,134    974  2,752  4,687  6,975  8,444 11,572 14,873 15,977
% Retained by EGPC        20%   24%    20%   25%   25%    25%    25%   25%    25%   25%
Reserves                  254   270    194   688  1,172  1,744  2,111  2,893  3,718  3,994
Distr;bUted to Govemment   1,033   864    780  2,064  3,516  5,231  6,333  8,679 11,155 11,983
Reserves Retained by EGPC   254    270    194   688  1,172  1,744  2,111  2,893  3,718  3,994
Total Govt. Payments     1,548  1,297  1,288  3,148  5,362  7,979  9,670 13,202 16,928 18,189
Govt. Pmts. as % Total Revs   39%   32%    28%   41%   46%   480%O   48%   53%    56%   56%
Avg. Tax Rate             25%   25%    28%   25%   25%    25%    25%   25%   25%   25%
Avg. Royalty Rate          3%    3%    5%    3%    3%         30/O   3%/O   3%    3%    3%



- 94 -                          Annex XII
Page 8 of 9
01-Apr-91
01-Apr-91             -(~~~~~est)  lest)  (Zm   (estl  (est)  lest)  lest)
ASSETS                   _88  FY89  FY90   M91  FY9   £9i  FY94  FY9_   F-96    f
Net Cash                950   815   746   864  1,017  1,621  2,501  4,165  6,688  9,580
Current Assets         1,100  1,200  1,890  2,604  3,650  4,"5  6,030  6,990  7,982  8,547
Ivestments in Affiliates    2,925  3,135  3,135  3,135  3,135  3,135  3,135  3,135  3,135  3,135
Propelty, Plant & Equipment
At Cost               1,528  1,830  2,005  2,273  2,889  3,996  5,308  6,780  8,378 10,073
Less Depreciation:    1.012 I1.336  149Q  1.64          2.314  2 724    4.156 5§
Net Property, Plant & Equip  516   494   515   578   934  1,682  2,517  3,378  4,222  5,011
Projcts in Progress     325   251   343   692  1,183  1,388  1,547  1,674  1,771  1,860
Foreign Exchange Reval    0      Q    186   551    9    10    1 019   974    00   822
TOTAL ASSETS            5,815  5,895  6,816  8,425 10,842 13,825 16,750 20,316 24,697 28,955
LIABILTIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities    1,005  1,040  1,718  2,367  3,318  4,541  5,482  6,355  7,256  7,770
Long-terrn Debt
Foreign Banks          268   239   309   593   900   929   814   626   401   163
Domestic Sources       124   128   108    95    83    71    58    46    33    21
Equity                  300   300   300   300   300   300   300   300   300   300
Reserves               4.118  4.187  4381  5$069  6.241  7.985 10,096 12.989 16.Z07 20.701
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND    5,815  5,895  6,816  8,425 10,842 13,825 16,750 20,316 24,697 28,955
EQUITY



- 95 
Arab Reo"bib d E                 Annex XII
Gas!rivestnientLoaii    Page 9 of 9
Actual and DrojectF      tteets for EGPC
Source and ADWication of Fuds
01-Apt-91  FFst)  (est)  (ed)   (est)  (est)  (est)  (est)
FY88  FY89  FY90   t1              FY93  FY94  FFS FY96  FY97
Sources of Funds
Income before It. and Tax  1,707  1,490  1,315  3,669  6,272  9.324 11,280 15,439 19,825 21,282
Depreciation             140    119    154   221    310    443    568    702    842    988
Total Intemal Funds     1,847  1,609  1,469  3,890  6,582  9,766 11,848 16,141 20,667 22,269
Foreign Debt               0      0      0      0    54      64      0      0      0      0
Local Debt                45      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
Equity                     0      0      0      2      Q      0      2      2      0    0
Total Extemal Funds       45      8      0      0    54      64      0      0       0      0
Total Sources           1,893  1,618  1,469  3,890  6,636  9,830 11,848 16,141 20,667 22,269
Dlication of Funds
Income Taxes and          395    333    321    869  1,514  2,277  2,766  3,809  4,909  5,277
Social Bank
Debt Service
Interest                  25     23     20    48      70     72     69     57     43    28
Repayment                 42     41     56    111    180   211    234    248    251    253
Total Debt Service        67      64     76    159   251    283    303    304    294   2C1
TransferstoGovt.        1.033    864    780  2,064  3,516  5,231  6,333  8,679 11,155 11,983
Investments              402    175    268    616  1,107  1,313  1,471  1,598  1,696  1,784
Increase Worldng Capital    (80)    64  13    65      95    122     94     87      90    51
NetChangeinCash            75    117     12   118    153   606    880  1,663  2,523  2,893
Financial Ratios
Self Financing          107%   162%   104%   119%   109%   141%   160%o  204%  249%   262%
Rate of Return           50%    41%    34%   87o  130%   171%   180%   219%   253%   248%
Debt Service             27.7   25.2   19.2  24.5  26.2   34.5  39.1   53.1   70.2   79.3
Operating Margin         400%   33%    26%   46%   53%    56%    66%    61%    65%    66%
Current                   1.1    1.2    1.1   1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1
Current Assets/Sales     32%h   330/o  47%   36%    330/o  32%    32%o   29%    28fYe  28%
Current Liabilities/Expenses  40%o   37n    50%    50%   50%o   50%    50%    50%    50%    50%
DetbV(Debt+Equfty)        8%     8%     8%    11%   13%    11%    8%       5%      2%     1%



- 96 -
Annex XIII
Page 1 of 7
GAS INVESTMENT PRQJECT
Pet. gas. Financia. Proiection Assumptions
1. Domestic Energy rices: assumed to reach 100 percent of international
prices by FY96 including alignment of .he petroleum and official exchange
rates by the start of FY91.
2. LPG Retail Prices: fuel component assumed to reach international prices
by FY96, plus distribution costs assumed to reach 30 percent of the economic
cost of US$150/mt by FY96 and 100 percent by FY98.
3. Retail Domestic Gas Prices: set to an average of 19.8 piasters/cubic
meter in FY92 and thereafter set to the fuel oil equivalent, plus a margin
sufficien to cover operating costs and the average incremental cost of
network expansion (estimated to be 57 piasters per cubic meter in FY91 prices)
to a maximum of the LPG equivalent.
4. Incremental Gas Sales and Customers: 30,000 additional domestic and 300
additional commercial customers in both FY91 and FY92, thereafter as per
project description.
5. Cost of Gas Sold: set to domestic fuel oil equivalent beginning in FY91.
6. Depreciation: set to the historic average of 5 percent of historic valued
assets.
7. Foreign Exchange Losses: amortized at 5 percent per annum.
8.  Wazes and Salaries:  increased by local inflation and an el.-ticity of
0.75 with respect to gas sales.
9. Income,Tax: effective tax rate on income before tax of 25 percent
assumed.
10. LPG Sales: assumed to be supply driven and equal to the historic average
of 13 percent of equivalent gas production.
11. Cost of LEG Sold: set to 15 percent of the distribution cost component of
LPG sales.
12. Surplus Payout: by law 2 percent of income before taxes is paid to the
Nasser Social Bank plus 85 percent of after-tax-income; however, to achieve a
25 percent self-financing level, the retention of almost 90 percent of income
after taxes under current depreciation rules is necessary.
13. Cash: used as balance item in projections and as a proxy for required
equity contributions.
14. Working Capital: set to maintain a current ratio of 1.2, excluding cash.
15. Consumer ContribuarLns: assumed to average LE 150 per additional domestic
customer and LE 400 per additional commercial customer.
H: \sharad%\\a=exzt . ser



Annex XIII
- 97 -ageTof7
Arab Reoubhc of Egvyt
Gas Investment Loan
Achal and Prolected PetDoass Financial Summary
Income Statement
(LE million)
01-Apr-91                           (eat)  (est)  (est)  (est)  (est)  (est)
FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  E93  FY94  FY95  FY96
Natural Gas Sales
Domestic                  5.0   5.3   5.7   6.3       8    12    18    28    46    70
Commercial                0.1   0.2   0.3   0.5       1     1      2     4      9    18
Industrial                                  178.0  234   396   726  1,078  1,733  2,636
PowerStations           111.9               164.0  181   383   971  1,438  2,183  3,145
Totad Natural Gas Sales  116.9  218.7  262.1  349.1   423   793  1,717  2,548  3,971  5,869
Sold Services             1.4   1.2   1.9   4.6       4     8    17    25    40    59
Total Revenues           118.3  219.9  264.0  353.8   427   800  1,734  2,574  4,011  5,928
CostSales%FOE             70o  110%Y* 101%  124%  100%   86%   94%   97/o  98%   99%
Cost of Sales           101.7  191.9  231.8  314.7  412   662  1,595  2,428  3,843  5,741
Sales Margin             16.7  28.0  32.3  39.1  15.6  138.0  139.4  145.7  167.6  187.7
Margin piaster/mA3        0.3   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.2   1.3   1.0   1.0   1.2   1.3
Depreciation             11.0  10.0  10.7  13.3  14.1  15.1  16.9  27.5  38.9  51.5
Foreign Exchange Losses                             0.0   2.1   4.5   5.3   6.2   6.7
wages & Salaries          5.0   7.2   8.3   8.9  12.1  17.4  24.3  27.6  29.1  30.8
Other Faxed Coats         0.9   0.1   0.1   0.0   2.4   3.5   4.9   5.5   5.8   6.2
Other Costs               1.5   1.3   1.5   1.6   2.2   3.3   4.9   5.7   6.0   6.3
Total Expese              18.3  18.5  20.6  23.8  30.8  41.5  55.4  71.5  86.0  101.5
Operating Inoome          (1.7)   9.5  11.7  15.2  (15.2)  96.5  83.9  74.2  81.6  86.2
Interest Expenses         2.6   2.4   2.2   3.0   6.6  10.3  10.5  10.2   9.2   7.9
Income Tax                0.6   1.-   2.7   3.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Net Operating Income Gas  (4.8)   5.7   6.9   9.2  (21.8)  86.2  73.5  64.0  72.3  78.3
Reserves Retained         (4.8)  0.9   1.1   1.4  (21.8)  13.4  73.5  64.0  72.3  78.3
Surplus Distributed        0.0   4.8   5.8   7.8   0.0  72.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0



Annex XIII
- 98 -                       Page 3 of 7
01-Apr-91  LPG Income               (est)  (eOt)  (est)  (est)  .(est)  (eat)
FY87  EX.:  FYf9  F      EO        FY9   3  FY94  FY95  FO
LPG Revenues
Domestic                 36.5  40.9  43.2  55.5  84.8  105.5  163.9  218.9   747  1,029
Commercial                                         28.2  35.1  54.3  71.1   103   140
Investment Companies      1.4   1.3   1.7   1.7   U       44   _5.    6.0       7     4
Total LPG Sales          37.9  42.1  44.8  57.2  113.8  146.1  223.2  296.0   857  1,174
Cylinder Sales           10.6  12.6  19.8  16.3  20.1  25.0  29.3  32.4    69    73
Appliance Sales          17.6  26.2  25.6  28.9  35.6  44.3  51.9  57.4   122   129
Services Revenues         3.4   3.3   6.9  11.6  13.9  17.3  20.3  22.4    48    50
EGPC Subsidies            7     06    0.0 .0.             0            0.0 0          2
Total LPG Revenues       77.1  84.3  97.1  114.0  183.4  231.6  324.6  408.2  1,095  1,426
39%   60%   48%   56%       1      1
Cost of LPG               7.1   6.7   7.6   9.0  39.3  78.4  104.4  162.2   647   966
Cost of Cyclinders       15.6  10.9   9.3  11.0  19.1  23.8  27.8  30.8    65    69
Cost of Appliances        9.5   2.6   3.8   4.5  33.8  42.0  49.3  54.5   116   123
Total Cost of Sales      32.2  41.1  47.8  56.6  92.2  144.2  181.5  247.5   829  1158
Sales Margin             44.9  43.2  49.4  57.5  91.1  87.4  143.1  160.7   266   268
Depreciation              9.0   9.3   9.4   1 02   10.6  11.4  12.4  46.9    85    96
Wages & Salaries         17.7  19.9  23.3  26.7  32.9  41.0  48.0  53.1   113   119
Other Fixed Costs         5.9   9.9  10.2  12.3  14.8  18.4  21.6  23.9    51    54
Other Costs               3.8   5.3   5.9   6.9   8.5  10.5  12.4  13.7    29    31
Total Expenses           36.4  44.4  48.7  56.1  66.9  81.4  94.4  137.6   278   300
Operating Income          8.5  (1.2)  0.6   1.4  24.3   6.0  48.7  23.1   -11   -32
Interest Expenses         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
income Tax                0.4   0.0   0.2   0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         0     0
Net Operating Inoome      8.2  (1.2)  0.5   1.1  24.3   6.0  48.7  23.1   -11   -32
Combhned Gas & LPG Operatio s
Non-Operating Revenues    7.1   8.5  12.7  14.5  18.4  24.5  30.1  33.2    35    37
Non-Operating Expenses    4.3   5.4  10.0  11.3  14.4  19.2  23.5  26.0    28    29
Nasser Social Bank        0.1   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.1   2.0   2.6   1.9         1      1
Net Non-Operating Revenues   2.6   2.9   2.5   2.8   3.9   3.4   4.0   5.3      6      7
Net InCome                 6.9   7.4   9.8  13.1   6.4  95.6  126.1  92.4    67    54
Reserves                   0.9   1.2   1.5   2.0   1.0  14.8  126.1  92.4    67    54
W/C Subsidy Reserve        0.6   0.7   1.0   0.0   0.6   0.0   0.0   0.0         0     0
1st DivWiends              4.4   5.5   7.3   7.8   4.8   7.8   0.0   0.0         0     0
Govt. Admin Charges        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3   0.0   7.3   0.0   0.0         0     0
2nd Dividend Shareholders  0.0   0.0   0.0   2.2   0.0  49.2   0.0   0.0         0     0
2nd Dividend Employees     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.7   0.0  16.4   0.0   0.0         0     0
Distributed to Governent   3.3   4.1   5.5   8.4   3.6  62.4   0.0   0.0         0     0
DlstrlbutedtoEmployees     1.1   1.4   1.8   2.7   1.2  18.4   0.0   0.0         0     0
Reservs Retfaned           1.5   1.9   2.5   2.0   1.6  14.8  126.1  92.4    67    54



Annex XIII
99                       Page 4 of 7
Aab Peot  of EgyrA
Actual and Proiected PetMras Financial SuMmary
Blabne Sheet
(l.E mooin
Ol-Apr-91                           (est)  (od)  (eat)  (eat)  (eat)  (et)
FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96
ASSETS
Gros Historic Fxed Assets   255.7  26.1  288.7  339.9  388.1  417.1  461.3  1,018  1,624  1,V'1
Less: Accumulated Depm.   84.3  90.8  107.4  126.3  151.0  177.5  208.8   281   406   552
Revaluation Index          0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%         0      0     0
Gross Rb alued FiXed Assets  255.7  269.1  288.7  339.9  388.1  417.1  481.3  1,018  1,624  1,991
Less: Aocumulated DOpm.   84.3  90.8  107.4  126.3  151.0  177.5  206.8   281   405   552
Not Revakled Fixed Assets    171.4  178.3  181.3  213.6  237.1  239.5  254.5   737  1,220  1,439
Foreign Exchange Losses                             42.5  89.6  106.6   124   135   136
Prmecs Under Constr.      25.2  22.7  35.9  56.0  34.4  49.7  562.0   612   372   521
Other Long Tern Assets     4.6   4.9   6.9   6.6   8.1  10.5  12.2    13    14    15
Current Assets
Cash                     42.0  59.4  73.1  47.4  68.1   5.8 (352.6)  -728  -860 -1,145
Accounts Receivable      26.2  58.4  51.0  63;5  64.9  120.9  368.1   480   760  1,083
Others (Incl. Irmty.)    35.8  27.6  37.0  39.2  14.6  20.9  23.1    51    81   100
Total Current Assets     104.0  145.4  161.0  150.1  147.6  147.6  38.6  -197   -19    38
=   =g=ua=n==  -== s_*
TOTAL ASSETS             305.1  351.2  385.2  426.3  469.8  537.0  972.9  1,289  1.722  2,149
IUABILITIES AND EQUITY
Capital                  146.1  148.7  151.2  156.5  156.5  156.5  156.5   157   157   157
Total Reserves            50.9  71.9  80.8  93.8  95.5  110.3  236.4   329   396   450
Reval Reserve              0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0        0      0     0
Total Capkal and Reserves    197.0  220.6  232.0  250.3  252.0 266.8 392.9   485   553   606
Proviions                  8.8  14.0  22.8  32.6  32.6  32.6  32.6    33    33    33
CoInswer Cotributions      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.2  14.1    28    39    52
TOTAL EQUITY             205.8 234.6 254.8  283.0  284.6  302.6  43.7   544   624   691
Long-Term Debt            30.8  28.7  28.1  40.6  72.9  116.3  207.3   302   397   473
Acounts Payable           60.0  80.4  79.0  61.7  63.0  100.8  222.1   334   584   862
Others                     8.5   7.6  23.4  41.0  4S.2  17.3  103.9   108   117   123
TOTAL LUABILMES           99.3  116.7  130.4  143.3  1852  234.4  533.3   745  1,098  1,458
TOTAL LIAB. & EQUITY     306.1  351.3  3852  426.3  469.8 537.0  973.0  1.2    1,722  2,149



Anrnex XIII
- 100 -                          Page 5 of?
Arab Republ¢i of Eavot
nas Invedment Loan
Actual and Projected Petroaas Finarcial Summaiv
Source and Avoh_ajlon of Funda
(LE mlllion)
01-Aor-91                          (est)  (eat)  (eel)  (eel)  (eet)  (eet)
FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FYSS  FY96
SOURCES OF FUNDS                                                       -     -      -
Net Income Before Interest  9.4  11.2  14.8  19.4  13.0  105.9  1386.6  102.7  76.7  61.5
Depreciation              20.0  19.3  20.0  23.5  24.7  28.7  33.7  79.6  129.7  154.3
Internal Cash Generation  29.5  30.4  34.9  42.9  37.7  134.6  170.4  182.3  206.4  215.8
Long-Term Debt             0.0   0.0   1.6   1.6   0.0   7.5  88.3  88.8  96.4  101.8
EGPC Contribution         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Consumer Contributions                              0.0   3.2  11.0  12.0  12.7  13.3
Total Sources             29.5  30.4  36.5  44.5  37.7  145.2  287.7  283.0  315.5  330.9
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Taxes                      1.0   1.4   2.9   3.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Payments of Surplus       4.4   6.5   7.3  11.0   4.8  80.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Increase Other Assets     0.6   0.3   2.0  (0.3)   1.6   2.4   1.7   1.2   1.0   0.9
Capital Expenditures      25.8  29.7  30.9  50.5  28.9  44.3  556.6  606.3  366.6  615.7
Debt Service               4.9   4.7   4.5   6.7  14.5  23.7  26.3  27.8  27.8  42.3
Increase Working Capital   9.3   4.4  (12.3)  14.4  (32.8)  56.4  41.6  23.4  51.6  56.9
Total Applications        46.0  48.0  35.2  85.8  17.0  207.5  626.1  858.7  447.0  615.8
Net Change in Cash                                 20.7  (62.3) (358.4) (375.7) (131.5) (284.9)



- 101 -                       Annex XIII
Page 6 of 7
Arab eubc of Eav
ts Inestment Loan
Actual and Proecd Petraas Financial Summav
Natural 3asBalance Sheet
(LE rrIllign}
(est)  (est)  (esl)  (eel)  (est)  (esl)
FY87  FY8B  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96
ASSEIS
Gross Historic Fixed Asss    165.5  173.3  190.0  240.5  281.7  302.8  337.4   549   777  1,031
Less: Accumulated Depm.   43.5  43.9  54.4  67.6  81.6  96.8  113.6   141   180   231
Revaluation Index           0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%          0     0      0
Gros Revalued Fixed Assets  165.5  173.3  190.0  240.5  281.7  302Q8  337.4   549   777  1.031
Less: Accumulated Dep.n.   43.5   4     54,4  67.5  81.6  98.8  113.6   141   180   231
-
Net Revalued Fixed Assets    122.1  129.4  135.6  173.0  200.0  206.0  223.8   408   597   799
(% of totalassets)        71%   73%O  75%   81%   84%   86%   88%          1     0      1
Foreign Exchange Losses     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  42.5  89.6  106.6   124   135   136
Projects Under Constr.     14.7  12.4  21.3  33.0  13.7  27.3  204.4   221   246   266
Other Long Term Assets      2.5   3.9   4.1   2.6   3.3   4.2   4.9         5     6      6
Cufrern Assets
Cash                      41.6  40.8  53.2  34.4  65.0  (9.4) (84.2)  -152  -232  -334
Accoudts Receivable       20.3  49.2  44.2  51.6  53.4  105.0  347.1    467   678   957
Others (Incm. Invty.)     13.2   5.5   6.4   7.4   7.0  15.1  16.9    27    39    52
Total Current Assets       75.0  95.6  103.9  93.4  125.5  110.8  279.7   342   485   675
=   = = =   =  =  =    --
TOTAL ASSETS              214.4  241.3  264.9  302.0  385.1  437.9  818.5  1,100  1,469  1,883
LIABILITIES AND EQtUITY
Capita                    100.7  103.2  105.7  111.0  111.0  111.0  111.0   111   111   111
Total Reseves              35.4  39.0  58.6  85.9  66.1  81.1  156.6   223   299   380
Reval Reserve               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         0     0      0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TotalCapital and Reserves    136.0  142.2  164.2  196.9  177.1  192.2  267.6   334   410   491
Proisons                    7.0  12.6  20.0  27.0  26.1  26.1  26.1    26    26    26
Consumfe Contrbutions       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.2  14.1    26    39    52
TOTAL EQUITY              143.0  154.9  184.3  224.0  203.2  221.5  307.9   386   475   570
Long-Term Debt             30.3  28.0  25.7  36.7  72.9  116.3  207.3   302   397   473
(adj)
Acounts Payable            38.4  56.6  49.8  32.9  77.2  82.8  199.4   303   480   718
Otder                       2.6   1.9   6.2   8.6  31.7  17.3  103.9   108   117   123
TOTAL LIABIUTIES           71.3  8B.4  80.6  78.1  181.8  218.4  510.6   714   994  1,313
TOTAL LUAB. & EQUITY      214.3  241.3  264.9  302.0  385.0  437.8  818.4  1,100  1,469  1,883



- 102 -                     Annex XIII
Page 7 of 7
OnInvedm Loan
A"  mW Pr   LEd mEdmmFnni  u
atuval Ga Sourc and AoUIcalon of Eunda
(oa)  (et)  (et)  (et)  (eat)  (etd)
FY87  FY88  FY89  FY9O  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96
SOURCES OF FUNDS                              - ._.                          -
Ne Inot.m Before Intert   (0.4)  10.9  12.9  16.6  (132)  982   85.9  76.8  84.7  89.6
Depecio                   11.0  10.0  10.7  13.3  14.1  17.3  21.4  32.7  45.1  58.3
Internal Cash Generation  10.8  20.9  23.6  29.9   0.8  115.5  107.3  109.6  129.8  147.9
% Of Total                36%   69%   68%   70%    2%   89%   63%   60%   63%   69%
Long-Term Dot              0.0   0.0   1.6   1.6   0.0   7.5  86.3  88.8  96.4  101.8
EGPC Contbb. Gas           0.0   2.6   2.5   5.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Consurrw n Contrbuions     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.2  11.0  12.0  12.7  13.3
Total Sources             10.6  23.5  27.7  36.9   0.8  126.1  204.6  2103  238.8  263.0
APPUCATIONS OF FUNDS
Taxes                      0.6   1.4   2.7   3.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Paymets of Surplus         0.0   4.8   5.8   7.8   0.0  72.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
IncreaseOtherAueets        0.6   1.4   02   (1.5)  0.6   1.0   0.7   0.5   0.4   0.4
Capit Ehxptures           16.8  20.7  20.6  40.3  21.1  34.6  211.8  228.3  253.2  273.6
Debt Service               4.9   4.7   4.5   6.7  14.5  23.7  26.3  27.8  27.8  42.3
lncrease Workn Capi       (8.7)  3.8  (0.6)  ?2.0  (66.0)  68.4  40.6  21.7  37.1  48.7
Total Applications        14.1  36.8  33.2  78.4  (29.8) 200.5  279.4  278   318.4  384.9
Net Change In Cash                                  30.6  (74.4) (74.8) (67.9) (79.6) (101.9)



- 103 -
AnnexL XIV
Page 1 of 7
EG5x
GAS INVESTMENT PROJECT
Assumptions Used in the Economic Analygis
Number of Consumers
Petrogas's planned figures for customer connections have been assumed.
In the residential sector, Petrogas's policy of finai,cing customer connections
at the time of laying pipelines in new areas produces a high and historically
predictable level of penetration.
The estimated number of commercial consumers is based upon area surveys.
The take-up of gas by these consumers will be sensitive to the relative price
of gas, and to Petrogas's marketing efforts. It is assumed that pricing
reforms and an improved marketing performance by Petrogas (promoted by
technical assistance under the project) would result in the target number of
customers being achieved.
Gas Consumptio
Residential Consumption
Average gas consumption in the residential sector is estimated on the
basis of average consumption on the current distribution system. Since 1987,
consumption has been relatively stable at around 240 cm/yr. This level of
consumption is below the levels expected at the time of the first phase of
Greater Cairo gas distribution. Two factors appear to be acting to depress
apparent usage:
(i) A substantial proportion of the Egyptian housing stock is
unoccupied, and these customers are registered as having used no gas,
which lowers recorded average consumption. The opinion of Petrogas is
that between 5-10 percent of apartments are unoccupied in lower income
areas but that in upper income areas, the proportion is 20-25 percent.
When average consumption figures are adjusted to exclude unoccupied
residences, the average usage per household rises to 279 cm. While
Petrogas endeavors not to connect unoccupied apartments (at its own
expense) during the coverage of a new area, it is likely that the
proportion of unoccupied apartments will be about the same in the next
phase of Cairo gas distribution.
(ii) The relative prices of gas and LPG, and the structure of gas
prices, have create a substantial incentive to limit gas consumption to
the first slab (22.5 cn/month) and to use LPG for any additional
requirements. Some consumers may have been using gas for cooking and
LPG for water heating. The increase in LPG prices in May 1990 removed
the incentive to use LPG in place of gas, but it is too early to assess
the full impact on usage patterns. In the long term, continuing



- 104 -
Annex XIV
Page 2 of 7
LPG and gas pricing reform will lead to the conversion of any remaining
LPG appliances to gas, and the elimination of the incentive to restrict
consumption to the first slab, which should increase average
consumption.
Trend growth in average household consumption of 1 percent per annum is
anticipated, mainly due to the LPG substitution referred to above and to the
increased use of gas for water heating as living standards rise (current
appliance density per household is about 1.6). It is assumed that the price
elasticity of demand is very low, since gas cooking and water heating are
essential services. There is, thus, likely to be little response to the
anticipated long term raising of prices to economic le-els.
Commercial Consumgtion
The average consumption of commercial users is also estimated on the
basis of current consumption. However, there were only 363 commercial
customers in FY90, compared with the 5000 expected to be connected under the
GCGDEP. The average of 4900 cm/yr may not be fully representative of
consumption potential, due to the following reasons:
(i) Gas to commercial consumers is, at present, priced well above the
cost of LPG and gas oil. Hence, commercial consumers have the same
incentive as residential consumers to limit gas consumption and use LPG
or gas oil where possible.
(ii) Few sizeable consumers (hotels, hospitals, large restaurants) are
connected to gas, and none are using it to its full potential.
Incorporation of these consumers wouldl raise the average consumption
level.
Based upon experiences in other cities, an average of 6000 cm/yr per
customer is considered reasonable for the start of the project (FY93), when
initial LPG and petroleum product pricing reform will have created a greater
incentive to use gas. This average is expected to rise by 5 percent per annum
(to a ceiling of 10000 cm/yr) as more large consumers are connected and the
service sector grows.
Fuel Substitution
All fuel substituted in the residential sector is assumed to be LPG.
Ele'.tricity is also used in a few households, particularly for water heating
(probably no more than 5 percent). The relatively high running cost of
electric heaters leadL to their substitution by gas heaters where consumers
have a choice. Since the economic cost of electricity is above that of LPG,
inclusion of this benefit would raise returns to the project.
In the commercial sector, 90 percent of substitutions are expected to be
for LPG. with 10 percent for gas oil, which is used by larger consumers for
water heating.



- 105 -
Annex XIV
Page 3 of 7
Industrial substitution is based upon surveyed fuel use in the targeted
factories, with x percent being fuel oil, y percent, gas oil and z percent,
LPG.
Valuation of Spubstitute Fuels
All fuels have been valued on the basis of international product prices
and the economic costs of transportation and delivery.
Although Egypt's modest imports and exports are in balance, there is an
excess of potential demand over supply for LPG. Despite future growth in
supply as more gas is utilized, in the long run the LPG requirements of
Egypt's rapidly growing population can only be met by imports. Hence the cif
price of LPG is used to value the LPG displaced by gas. This is taken as the
Mediterranean LPG price, adjusted for freight to Egypt (US$20/ton).
Allowance is also made for the substantial transport, bottling and
distribution costs of LPG. This has been estimated at US$150/ton, based upon
economic costs provided by Petrogas. The main cost components are as follows
(capital and operating costs):
USSZton
Port Handling and Transport to Bottling Plant    20
Bottling Plant                                     25
LPG Cylinders                                      85
Transport and Distribution of Cylinders            20
TOTAL COST                                        150
The capital intensive nature of LPG means that most of this cost
represents imported capital equipment.
For gas oil, the cif price is taken, reflecting Egypt's substantial
current deficit in middle distillates. This price is adjusted for freight to
Egypt, and for transport, distribution and storage distribution within Egypt.
Fuel oil, which is in substantial surplus, is valued at its FOB price,
adjusted to reflect additional costs within Egypt.
All fuel prices are escalated in line with World Bank oil price
forecasts.
Base Fuel Values and Costs (USS/ton)
Transport, Storage &
1990 Price and Basis      Distribution Adjustment
LPG            219 (cif)                      150
Fuel Oil         80 (fob)                      15
Gas Oil         220 (cif)                      20



- 106 -
Annex XIV
Page 4 of 7
Convenience and Supply Security Benefits from LPG Replacement
In addition to the benefit to the country of displacing tradeable
petroleum products with lower cost gas, natural gas distribution yields a
benefit to consumers due to its convenience and security of supply. It is
generally recognized that consumers are willing to pay a premium for natural
gas over LPG, reflecting its superior qualities in use. In the absence of
direct market data in Egypt, this willingness to pay has been approximated by
the costs borne by consumers to obtain a quality of service from LPG that
approximates that obtained from natural gas.
- The convenience benefits of natural gas have been approximated by:
(a) the tip that most consumers pay to have cylinders taken up to
their apartments; and (b) the imputed rent of the space occupied by
LPG cylinders.
- The security of supply benefit of natural gas has been approximated
by the holding cost of a spare LPG cylinder (which is held by most
consumers to guarantee availability of LPG).
Using average costs observed in Cairo, the value of these consumer
benefits for the purposes oi economic analysis has been estimated at US$30 per
ton of LPG displaced for residential consumers and US$15/ton displaced for
commercial consumers.
It should be mentioned that industrial consumers benefit in a similar
manner from the replacement of fuel oil and gas oil with natural gas, since
conversion to gas reduces working capital requirements (for stored oil
products) and usually lowers the operating and maintenance costs of boilers.
Since these benefits will vary widely between users, no attempt has been made
to value them, and, in this sense, the valuation of the benefits of gas
substitution to industry is conservative.
MA: \hared\gary\annex5. sar



EGYPr GAS INVESTMENT LOAN I
OREATER CARO OAS DSTRIBUTION EXPANSION COMPONENT
BASE CASE
....... ......... .
1893   1994  1995  1996  1997  1998   1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004   2005  2008  2007  2008  2009  2010
Residenial                              47000 94000 141000 186000 235000 235000 235000 235000 235000 235000 235000 235000 235000 235000 235000 235000 235000 235000
_ommntc                                  1000  2000  3000  4000  5000  5000  5000  5000  S500   5000  5000   5000  5000  5000  5000  5000  5000  5000
Industrial                                  2      8     13    1a    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22              22    22    22    22    22    22
CONSUMPTlN PER UNIT (an
Resudtal                                  245   247   250   252   255   257   280   262   265   288    270    273    276   279   281   284   287   290
Commenc                                  6000  6300  6815  6948  7293  7658  6041   d443  8865  9308  9773  10000 10000 10000  10000 10000 10000 10000
Industtbt  (mIr)                         3050  3080  3111  3142  3174  3205  3237  3270  3303  3338  3389  3403  3437  3471   3508  3541  3578  3812
GAS SALES (nEcm)
ResdntIal                                5753 17433  29345 41494  53883 60468 61073 61634  62301  62924 63553 64188 64830 8547s 66133 6870s 67463 88137
Commewdal                                3000  9450 18538  24310 32819 38288 40203 42213  44324 46540 48867 50000 50000 50000 SOO0  50000 s5ooo 500S0
Industiral                               3050 15402 32867 48704 63473  70518  71224  71936  72855 73382 74118  74857 75605 76361  77125 77898  78675 79462
Total                                   11603 42284  78549 114508 150174 16927S 172S00 175833 179280 182845 186535 189045 190436 191840 193256 194891 196138 197599
FUELSWJ9SWtUTEOOns)
ULF                                      6796 20928 35760 51261  67469  76757 78627 00571 82583 84695 88883 86215 80738 69285 69796  00336 90870 91428
Fuel 06                                  1357  6851  14531  21664 2t233 31367 31681 31998  32318 32641  32967 33297 33030 33986  34306 34649 34996 35346
ri0 o0                                   1602  7593  15798 23524 30756  34330 34807 35296 35797 36310  36836 37260 37589 37921  38257 36588  38938 39264
......    ......    ......    ......    ......    ......    ....... ......    ......    ......    ......    . ....    ......    ......    ......    ......    ......    ............-§ ----e*.-o -- ^*^--o -----* -v*---
Total                                    9757 35372 66089 98449 126458 142454 145115 147865 150707 153646 156666 158773 159957 161153 162381 163580 164812 M6057 
IRuCu aFRiUSmUTEO(WSa
..... ..... ..    .... 1 - - - -- - - -- -
CoFadFOB  pRasns                          17.7  17.1   17.6   18.5  19.4  20.2  21.1   21.9  22.3   22.1  21.9   21.0   21.4   21.4   21.4   21.4   21.4  21.4
LPG (rla TtMp.3 O11J                     334.5  329.7  335.0  342.8  350.5  356.4  366.4  374.3  377.4  375.4  373.5  371.6  368.?  369.7  369.7  369.7  369.7  389.7
Fuel Cl (bid Tawpi Sk1, )                 79.6  77.4  60.2  63.2  66.7  90.3  93.S  97.4  98.6  97.9   97.0   96.2   95.3  953   95.3  95.3  95.3  95.3
GMON o0(t Tamsp.& DIaL)                  193.7  168.7  195.1  202.1  210.4  218.7  227.0  235.3  236.5  236.5  234.5  232.5  230.5  230.5  230.5  230.5  230.5  230.5
Tampoet   Dstdabn Coa                                OUaIMut  LPG Sub        efts
UIlon                     USln of IPO
LP                                        1SO        Realda"           30
Fudl 0                                     1s       CommterIal        1S
Go0 (11120
VALUEOFR sELS    nTVED (WI lUr
........*........ ............ ................................. .
tUO                                       2.27   6.90  12.01  17.56  23.65  27.51  26.61  30.16  31.17  31.60  31.45  32.70  32.61  33.00  33.20  33.40  33.60  33.60
Fud 0C                                    0.11   0.53   1.16   1.60   2.45   2.63   2.97   3.12   3.19   3.20   3.20   3.20   3.21   3.24   3.27   3.30   3.4   3.37
amON                                      0.31   1.43   3.08   4.75   6.47   7.51   7.90   S,31   8.54   6.59   6.64   6.6    66   8.74   as,2   a9c   6n97   9.05
....   ....  ....    ....  ....    ...   ...      .. .  ...     ...  ...      ....  ....    ....  ...     ...  ....    -----..
Total                                     2.69   6.60  16.28  24.12  32.57  37.85  J9.60  41.56  42.90  43.56  44.29  44.65  44.87  44.98  45.26  45.59  45.91  46.22  lD X
(9
uX
WEEFITS OF LPG sLeffTTu1oiO (WI mom)
COT OF GAS FudCUEqulv. S                  1.66   1.63   1.70   1.76   1.67   1.96   2.05   2.15   2.18   2.16   2.14   2.11   2.09   2.09   2.09   2.09   2.09   2.0     C
..................................................



ecoNOUCRA1E OF FET1R ANALYSIS (USS s)
192  19"3  194   1995  1999  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001   2002  2003   2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010
....    .... .   ....   .... .. ....   .... . . ....   .... . . ----   ----. . ....   .... . . -- . ----. . ... . ...... ....  ---- .. ----.. .. .... ........._
..........
hvmesw  Cost                        2.4  38.1  37.3   37.1   37.2  20.2
O4M  *                                    0.40   0.80   1.20   1.80   2.00   2.00   2.00   2.00   2.00   2.00   2.00   2.00   2.00   2.00  Z00   2.00   2.00   2.00
oa ofa                                    0.70   2.43   4.71   7.16   9.91  11.73  12.51  13.33  13.81  13.94  14.06  14.12  14.07  14.18  14.28  14.39  t4.49  14.60
Tdl CO5                            2.40  39.21  40.57  43.04  4s.97  32.13  13.73  14.51  15.33  15.81  15.94  16.08  16.12  16.07  16.18  1.28   6.39  16.49  16.60
..........
FOs RegiE                                 2.69   6.86  16.26  24.12  32.57  37.85  39.66  41.56  42.90  43.56  44.29  44.65  44.67  44.98  4s.26  45.59  45.91  4.22
GM Oumi. Buifs                            0.17   0.52   0.88   1.26   1.65   1.66   1.90   1.94   1.97   2.01   2.05   2.08   2.10   2.11   213   2.14   2.16   2.18
TOMl 8in                           0.00   2.86   9.38  17.14  25.37  34.22  39.72  41.58  43.52  44.87  45.59  46.34  46.73  46.77  47.09  47.41  47.74  46.07  46.40
Ni  B_meN                         -2.40 -36.35 -31.19 -25.90 .20.59   2.06  25.99  27.07  28.19  29.06  29.65  30.26  30.61  30.70  30.91  31.13  31.35  31.57  31.80
E -- 15.8%
00
I .
o >.4



- 109 -                          Annex XIV
Page 7 of 7
ARAB REULCOFEGP
GAS INVESTMENT LA 
Trn  u Gas O
Cagital Cost AssumDtions
Local Cost =     25%
Foreign Cost =   75%
Product Mix Assumptions
Feed Gas =        70 MMSCFD
Products =        60 MMSCFD Gas
35 Tons/Day LPG
900 BbVday Condensate
Capdal Cost   O&M  Production  Revenue (US$ million)     Net
Year     TGGC  Ploeline Cost  Profile 1/  Gas   LPG  Condensate Revenue
FY91/92     10.3   15.0  8.34                                       -33.64
FY92193     38.1   15.0  8.34      42      24.16   1.12    3.48     42.68
FY93/94     7.5    5.0   8.34      52      29.06   1.45    4.18      13.84
FY94/95                   8.34     62      35.97   2.05    5.17     34.86
FY95/96                   8.34     62      37.35   2.20    5.37     36.58
FY96/97                   8.34     62      38.97  2.21     5.60     38.44
FY97/98                   8.34     45      29.51   1.61    4.24     27.02
FY98/99                   8.34     28      19.15   1.00    2.75      14.57
FY99/2000                  8.34     15      10.70   0.54    1.54      4.44
FYOQ(01                   8.34     14      9.91   0.48     1.43      3.47
FY01/02                   8.34     13      9.18   0.42     1.32      2.58
FY02/03                   8.34     12      8.50   0.39     1.22      1.77
FY03104                   8.34     11      7.87   0.38     1.13      1.02
FY04/06                   8.34     10      7.29   0.34     1.05      0.33
13 year ife ERR*      28%
6 year life ERR       21%
1/ Production profile is net of existing gas production.



MAP SECTION



1P10nt ~Au Ei6
\                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RASBLJDRANt> ~ /       
AIRPORT
RAS ABU RUDEI$'       P
October
Field12
ToSuez                                       - 1 2Km                Poin
o Rasker a  r
169         Processin
190 KM        Facilities
_  _   tj/                                               \ 9    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~26 Km
I                  ~~~~OF
\  <  j                    ~~~~~SUL-,                                   / 
Ras Baker
16R Facltes                                                  Petrobel and
}  t)                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Plant(*s/ 
FEIRANp     
To Suez
WEST~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1e
w  E S T                                                                                      F acial,   ens
BANK                                                                        BELAYI
MEOITfRAtN SEGAS                                           ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
GAS INVESTMENT PROJECT
TRANS GULF COMPONENT
___                    ~~~~~~~~~Proiec   Existi ng:
OFMA        A                                   ON LAND PIPELINES
ARABIA                               OFFSHORE SUBMERGED PIPELINES
LBA           ARAB
REPULIBLYIC AA \NJ MEASURINGANDCONTROLSTATIONS
OF E GYP T                                      *    COMPRESSION STATIONS
BUL-ROADS
SUDAN                                             BU ILT- UP AREAS



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
GREATER CAIRO GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
'   ks                       Nos' Cay<                                                                                                    i
1th may Cily
/  /   ,f    , /    /    f3  .                       ,    f 2.  4    -                                          - /,
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                            '         H/w                     // +2,R..;,
A/  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.  /t  A t R   X               Z              t                     _1             / 
*      POWER-H. DISTRIBUTIONSMAIN l2
,    ,/  ~//64iyei1       ; A          >g                             7-BAR MAINS
,     PRESSURE REGULATING STATIONS
(Z=n               /:                     ,,, DISTRICT REGULATING STATIONS
AREAS TO HAVE GAS
Y6e>;g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H.P. DISTRIBUTION MAIN t24'
J  t    0      .             > +<  :                                ---   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7-BAR MAINS
/   /   *8                     '  >                                   *    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POWER STATIONS
/f  J                                       ,,,>~~~          ~~                ~~~~~~~~mids  i   PRESSURE REGULATING STATIONS
/   /   °,   .   i'  7,  4   5         ,,                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISTRICT REGULATING STATIONS
/                                     /\                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GAS AREAS
BUILT-UP AREAS                                         oD
.2  ,    INDUSTRIAL CONSUMERS
_ _eL,. t~~~~~~~~~~~ ....... , . ,._ . .__3 ;W.Q. S h:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a



