Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19947
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$84.0 MILLION
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
GAS INVESTMENT PROJECT
December 27, 1999
Energy Sector
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
GAS INVESTMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3354-EGT)
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Egyptian Pounds (LE)
Official Rate              Market Rate
May1988                   US$1 =LE 2.242                 N.A.
May1991                   US$1-LE 3.17                   US$1 =LE3.17
Nov 1998                  IJS$1 -LE 3.39                 US$1 = LE 3.39
April 1999                 US$1 =LE 3.40                 US$1 = LE 3.40
Abbreviation.
EGPC            =    Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation
ENPPI           =    Engineering Company for Petroleu.m and Petro
Chemical Industry
ERR             =    Economic Rate of Return
ESMAP                Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme
GASCO           =    Gas Company of Egypt
GCGDC           =    Greater Cairo Gas Distribution Component
GOE                  Govermment of Egypt
GUPCO                Gulf of Suez Petroleum Company
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
LPG             =    Liquefied Petroleum Gas
LRMC                 Long Run Marginal Cost
METROGAS    =    Metropolitan Gas Company
MOPIC           =    Ministry of Planning and International Co-operation
PETROGAS        =    Petroleum Gas Company
PSAs           =    Production Sharing Agreements
SAL                  Structural Adjustment Loan
TGGC           =    Trans-Gulf Gas Component
TCF                  Trillion Cubic Feet
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Vice President:         Kemal Dervi§
Country Director:       Khalid Ikram
Sector Director:        Jean-Claude Villiard
Sector Manager:          Zoubeida Ladhibi-Belk
Task Team Leader:       Uruj A. Kirmani



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
GAS INVESTMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3354-EGT)
TABLE OF CONTENTS                                     Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                                             i-iv
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Introduction ..............................................I
B.   Achievement of Objectives ...............................................3
C.   Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .....................................6
D.   Project Sustainability ...............................................                    7
E.    Bank Performance ................................................7
F.    Borrower Performance ................................................8
G.   Assessment of Outcome ...............................................8
H.   Future Operations ................................................9
I.    Key Lessons Learned ................................................9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments ................................................11
Table 2:   Related IBRD Loans/IDA Credits ...............................................     12
Table 3:   Project Timetable ...............................................                  12
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative, Appraisal Estimate and Actual ......................... 13
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...............................................  13
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation ...............................................  14
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project ...............................................        14
Table 8A Project Costs                                     .15
Table 8B: Project Financing .15
Table 9A: Economic Costs and Benefits .16
Table 9B: Economic Rate of Return.                                                            17
Table 9C: Economic Rate of Return of Gas Investment Project .18
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .19
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual .20
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .20
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .21
ANNEXES
A. Mission's Memorandum of Understanding .22
B.  Trans-Gulf Component: Borrower's Perspective .29
C.   Greater Cairo Gas Distribution Component: Borrower's Perspective .32
Map: IBRD 22905
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
GAS INVESTMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3354-EGT)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Gas Investment Project
in the Arab Republic of Egypt, for which Loan 3354-EGT in the amount of US$84.00 million
was approved on September 26, 1991 and declared effective on September 3, 1992.
2.    The Loan was closed on June 30, 1999, after it was extended once from its original
closing date of December 31, 1997. The Loan was 99.6 percent disbursed. The small
undisbursed amount (US$303,306.63) was cancelled on November 9, 1999.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Mr. Uruj Kirmani, Senior Implementation Specialist
(MNSID) and Mr. P. Venugopal (Consultant). The ICR was reviewed by Mr. Mourad
Belguedj, Chief (EMTOG); Mr. Mohammed Al-Sheik, Lawyer (LEGMN); Mrs. Marie Ange
Le, Operations Analyst; Mrs. Zoubeida Ladhibi-Belk, Sector Manager; and Jean-Claude
Villiard, Sector Director (MNSID). The completion mission is grateful to the officials of
Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) and Petroleum Gas Company
(PETROGAS) for their assistance.
4.    Preparation of this ICR began during the project's final supervision/completion
mission in March 1999. The report is based on material in the project file, discussions with
the Borrower, and information collected in the field. The comments from the Borrower's
Perspective (EGPC) and (PETROGAS) are included as Annexes A and B, respectively.






Implementation Completion Report                                              i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
GAS INVESTMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3354-EGT)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.   The Gas Investment Project approved in 1991, followed four pioneering projects in the gas
sub-sector, which the Bank had supported at the turn of the 80s decade. All five projects were in
pursuance of the Bank policy initiated in 1978, to increase lending in the oil and gas sector, with
emphasis on gas exploration, development and infrastructure to transmit and distribute gas in the
domestic market. Natural Gas would provide clean energy, reduce environmental pollution and
displace more valuable petroleum products, which could in turn be exported contributing towards
foreign exchange earnings. Egypt was a notable case of success of the Bank's policy. From the
first involvement of the Bank over 20 years ago until the present, several achievements have been
made in the gas sub-sector, comprising lending for the five projects and advising on the
investment strategies, economic pricing of energy and development of gas institutions.
Remarkable increases in gas reserves (from 9 TCF to 34 TCF of proven reserves) and utilization
in the domestic market of both natural gas and Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) extracted from the
wet gas produced with oil have taken place. A vast pipeline network has been built in Lower
Egypt and expansion of gas network in Upper Egypt and other parts of the country are now being
made. In gas distribution to cities, private sector companies have been given a big role. Finally,
the Government has increased the average price for gas to industrial and commercial consumers
to the economic price; the gas tariffs for residential consumers, however, have remained much
lower than the economic price. This category of consumers is cross-subsidized to ensure
availability of clean fuel (both natural gas and LPG) to a large number of residential consumers,
which are below poverty line.
Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives
2.   Four key objectives, in tune with the Bank's policy for the country and the sector, were
focussed at appraisal of this project. These are given as under.
(a)  Augment the supply of gas and LPG for domestic use and substitute
petroleum products and release the latter for export.
(b)  Improve the environment, particularly through the capturing of flared gas.
(c)  Seek institutional development in gas distribution activities.
(d)  Evolve rational consumer pricing for natural gas, having achieved earlier,
such rationale in pricing petroleum products after prolonged discussions with
the Government of Egypt (GOE).



I7nplementation Completion Report                                             ii
3.   The Project comprised of two physical components. First, the Trans-Gulf Gas Component
(TGGC) was aimed at recovering flared associated gas in an offshore field, and from the Sinai
area, transport it onshore, extract value added fractions (LPG and condensate), and transmit the
dry sales gas by pipeline to the City of Suez ifor domestic consumption. Second, Greater Cairo
Gas Distribution Component (GCGDC) would expand the gas distribution network in Greater
Cairo area as a follow-up of an earlier Bank project for Cairo Gas Distribution (Cr. 1024-EGT).
In addition, as part of technical assistance, three studies relating to Gas Distribution Pricing
Stady (ESMAP), supply planning further development of gas from Gulf of Suez, and upgrading
refinery outputs in secondary processing were included in the project.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.   Achievement of Objectives and Sustainability.
(a)  At the macro-economic level, Egypt maintained a steady constant net balance of
foreign exchange in petroleurn trading in the period 1992-98 as new energy demands could
be met by newly discovered gas, while oil production did not increase. The proven gas
reserves increased from 9 trillion cubic feet (TCF) to 34 TCF during the last decade.
(b)  Institutional Developmtent. Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) was
solely responsible for all petroleum activities on behalf of the Government. It was
reorganized in 1997, when the GOE decided to involve the private sector in domestic gas
business. New institutions in downstream gas processing, transmission and distribution
were created. In March 1977, the Government spun off gas operations from EGPC to a
new company, Gas Company of Egypt (GASCO) formed under the new investment law.
Although it is a public company, with EGPC as the majority shareholder, it has been given
full autonomy to conduct its business efficiently. It is responsible for receiving all gas
produced upstream from EGPC, processing it to recover LPG and condensate, and selling
dry gas to major consumers, e.g., cement and power plants, and selling bulk gas to the
other distribution companies.  In addition, several private companies have been
incorporated to construct city gas distribution systems and distribute it in designated areas
of Egypt. PETROGAS, the beneficiary for GCGDC and co-signatory with Bank of the
Project Agreement in respect of GCGDC has been split, but will continue to exist as two
wholly-owned subsidiaries of EGPC. One subsidiary, PETROGAS, will trade in LPG and
the other, METROPOLITAN GAS (ME]TROGAS) will distribute natural gas in existing
areas of the cities of Cairo, Alexandria and other designated areas, where the (former)
PETROGAS had been distributing gas. The measures taken by the Government to confer
financial autonomy on GASCO and for private sector participation in gas distribution by
providing attractive terms to encourage private investment are to be commended.
However, METROGAS, as 1.00 percent subsidiary of EGPC is not covered under the
newly introduced terms and conditions for the private sector gas distribution companies. It
is important that the financiaLl viability of the METROGAS for gas distribution in the
existing market areas of Cairo. and other cities, is maintained and covenants in the Project
Agreement complied with. Recommendations in this regard are made in the ICR (paras.
11 and 12).
(c)  Physical Achievements,. Both TGGC and GCGDC exceeded the physical targets as
estimated at appraisal. TGGC exceeded the appraisal estimates by 50 percent and GCGDC



Implementation Completion Report                                                iii
by over 70 percent (408,000 residential consumers were connected compared with
appraisal estimate of 237,000 consumers). The studies were carried out satisfactorily, and
were made use of in revising gas tariffs, in planning and implementing a Phase II project in
the Gulf by EGPC, and in providing information to investors interested in Refinery
Expansion in Egypt (para. 14).
(d) Project Costs and Financing. There was a cost overrun of 44 percent over
appraisal estimate for various reasons. In TGGC, some designs had to be changed and
facilities sized for vastly larger production of gas, LPG and condensate as well as for
optimizing the use of offshore platforms, to incorporate gas lift system for secondary oil
recovery from the October field. This was not postulated at appraisal. Later, Gulf of Suez
Petroleum Company (GUPCO) optimized secondary recovery operations, which included
one larger size platformn for gas lift operations in addition for TGGC operations.  In
GCGDC, more customer connections (from 237,000 residential consumers estimated at
appraisal to 408,000 actually connected) were provided. Further, PETROGAS changed its
policy and decided to bear the cost of meters and regulators for residential consumers.
This added substantially to the costs. The financing for the Gas Investment Project
comprised IBRD: 22 percent, European Investment Bank (EIB): 7 percent, Islamic
Development Bank: 4 percent. The rest of the funds (67 percent) were provided by EGPC.
(e)  Economic Rate of Return. The economic rate of return for the project is
reevaluated at 19 percent compared to 18 percent at appraisal, which is satisfactory.
By components, the ERR for TGGC is placed at 31 percent as compared with the SAR
estimate of 28 percent and for GCGDC at 10 percent as compared with the SAR
estimate of 16 percent. These returns are also satisfactory. For GCGDC, the return is
reevaluated lower than at appraisal, due to higher construction costs than estimated at
appraisal as indicated in para. (d) above. In extending gas distribution to new cities,
salient features in GCGDC worthy of note are the outlook for the higher regime of
oil/oil product prices, as in place presently and the right mix of consumers, with a
predominance of commercial and industrial consumers as compared to residential
consumers.
(f)  Implementation Delays. The project implementation was delayed by 18 months.
The TGGC was completed ahead of the original schedule in July 1994. Most of the tasks
under GCGDC were also completed as scheduled. However, a delay of 18 months
occurred in constructing a peripheral supervisory control and data acquisition and
monitoring system (SCADA). SCADA had not been explicitly considered at appraisal.
The decision to install it was taken in mid-1994 and its installation was to be completed
within the original loan closing date. However, procurement problems arose, with the lack
of clarity in the first round of bidding. After clarifying the issues encountered earlier, a
second round of bidding was made. Consequently, the finalization of the contract was
delayed. It was commissioned in May 1999, about 18 months behind original schedule.
The closing date of the loan was extended from December 31, 1997 to June 30, 1999 to
complete the SCADA contract.
(g) Project Sustainability. Sustainability is highly likely, given that TGGC was
commissioned five years back (in 1994), and GCGDC's core operations of gas supply
to all customers commenced two years later (in 1997), and both components have



Irnplementation Completion Report                                                iv
performed satisfactorily since then. With incremental investments, EGPC
implemented a follow-on phase to TGGC and PETROGAS similarly to GCGDC. The
result has been, not only to raise physical output considerably in both cases, but also to
increase the net economic benefits well beyond those indicated in para (e).
(h)  Bank Performance. The Bank performed through all phases of the project cycle as
efficiently as it should. One facet of it, deserving highlighting, was the regularity of
supervision missions. The missions met with and briefed the authorities and the agencies at
several levels. That helped in the resolution of project problems effectively and without
delay. It also provided the Bank opportunity to review the developments and policy
changes in the sector and offer comments and advice to the Borrowers. The missions, in
turn, received up-to-date information on the sector from the concerned agencies.
(i)   Borrower Performance. The Borrower performance was of a high order. The staff
were result-oriented. As mentioned in the text of ICR, although the loan did not become
effective for 14 months, PETROGAS took practical implementation actions that prevented
slippage of its implementation plan from its original schedule.
()   Project Outcome. The project is assessed as 'satisfactory' in its overall outcome.
The positive factors are: (i) the physical results of production in TGGC exceeded appraisal
expectations; (ii) in GCGDC(, the number of gas connections were far in excess of
appraisal targets. ERR for the project, as a whole is also placed higher than expected.
There has been positive achievement of the sector objectives, be it institutional
development or gas tariffs or increasing utilization of gas substituting for valuable
petroleum products, which were released for export. The one adverse factor is the delay in
installing SCADA that led to the loan closing date being extended by 18 months. But for
it, the project might have merited a 'highly satisfactory' rating.
Findings and Lessons Learned
5.   These may be summed up as follows:
(a)  A project for city gas distribution should be planned after careful collection of
economic data and analysis of the economic costs and benefits. Unless there is space
heating and/or the distribution area includes medium level bulk consumers such as
commercial establishments and small scale industries in sufficient numbers (which
otherwise would not be supplied with gas directly), there may be no economic justification.
(b)  Successes with reforms, privatization and price increases to attain economic levels
are achieved, albeit slowly.
(c)  Supervisions are important and must be regularly scheduled. The missions must use
the opportunity not only to oversee progress of the project and solve problems, but also
study the developments in the sector and offer unobtrusive guidance and advice.
(d) In procurement of specialized contracts, as in SCADA, the Borrower should be
assisted by the specialists (ccnsultants or Bank's pool of experts) in the field to obviate
the difficulties experienced in this project.



Implementation Completion Report                                                       1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
GAS INVESTMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3354-EGT)
A. Introduction
1.   The Gas Investment Project was the last of a series of five pioneering projects in the oil and gas
sector in Egypt supported by the Bank as part of its policy to encourage discovery and utilization of
natural gas in the developing countries. The mid and late 1970s had witnessed sudden and steep increases
in oil prices with serious impacts on balance of payments in oil importing countries. Although Egypt was
a net exporter of oil, increases to oil reserves had slowed down during the 1970s, while the domestic
demand for energy was growing fast. International oil companies in Egypt, as elsewhere at that time, had
little interest in finding gas or developing gas discoveries, unless the gas could be exported as Liquified
Natural Gas (LNG).
2.   The World Bank Board decided in 1978 to increase the lending in the oil and gas sector, with
particular emphasis on finding of gas in 'gas-prone' areas, developing 'dry' gas fields, reducing the
flaring of associated gas, and processing gas to recover valuable Liquefied Gas Petroleum (LPG), and
other gas liquids. Improving gas availability had to go hand in hand with the provision of facilities for the
transmission and distribution to the domestic market. Gas would usually be consumed in the domestic
market and would thus substitute for imported oil or release oil for export. The Bank's new policy of
treating natural gas as an integral component of Borrowers' energy programs led to the Bank's
involvement in investment strategies, the pricing of petroleum products/gas, institutional development to
enhance the role of the private sector and the mobilization of financial resources. Among the successes
the Bank achieved in the pursuit and implementation of its gas policy, perhaps one of the most notable
was in Egypt.
3.   Between 1979 and 1982, the Bank approved four projects in the oil/gas sub-sector in Egypt. These
were the Gulf of Suez Project (Cr. 1732-EGT), Cairo Gas Distribution Project (Cr. 1032-EGT), Western
Desert Gas Exploration Project (Cr. 1928-EGT) and Abu Qir Gas Development Project (Credit 2103-
EGT). The Gas Investment Project (Ln. 3354-EGT) under review was approved in 1991 after a hiatus in
lending to Egypt caused by lack of agreement on several macroeconomic issues. However, discussions
with Egypt on gas sub-sector issue continued without interruption, both during the implementation phases
of the earlier projects and later.
4.   A few of the achievements in the gas sub-sector in Egypt over the period of the Bank's involvement
in the sector are enumerated below:
(a) The main achievement was that gas consumption, hardly significant at 2 billion cu. meters in
1978 (10 percent of primary commercial energy consumed), rose to 16 billion cu. meters (33
percent of primary commercial energy consumed) in 1998. Gas reserves increased phenomenally
and presently stand at 1.06 trillion cu. meters.
(b) Projects for the capture of flared gas have almost eliminated all flaring and have added to the
gas available for consumption. The environment has also benefited from reduction in flaring.



Implementation Completion Report                                                             2
(e) Domestic production of LPG, non-existent 20 years ago, amounted to 1.3 million tons in
1998.
(d)  The pipeline network of over 3500 kilometers of high-pressure lines alone now covers Lower
Egypt, with connections to fields in the Grulf of Suez, the Mediterranean, and the Western Desert.
Export by pipelines to other countries is being considered.
(e) New gas institutions, both public and private sector, dedicated to downstream gas activities of
different kinds, have been established. Of unique significance is the Government's policy of
involving the private sector in gas distribution. Since 1997, several private sector companies, local
as well as foreign (e.g., Nile Gas)2, have been established to expand gas utilization in various
regions of Egypt.
(f) The price for natural gas to the producers (international oil companies) was made attractive
by linkage to the export prices of a basket of petroleum products in Egypt. Just as important,
domestic tariffs for natural gas were revised to reflect the Long Run Marginal Cost (LRMC) in the
current supply driven situation in the market.
5.   The Bank's role was that of a catalyst. Good work was done by the institutions concerned in Egypt,
led by EGPC and its affiliates, which were ably assisted by technical collaboration with foreign
companies and consultants. In addition to the Bank-financed projects, other subsequent projects were
successfully implemented through such collaboration. Today, Egypt has a cadre of qualified and
competent personnel in all departments, from engineering to construction and maintenance, operations,
marketing, and support services.
6.   The objectives set for the Gas Investment: Project and their realization were part of and fitted into
the strategy of the gas sub-sector delineated above.
Statement/Evaluation of Objectives of the Gas Investment Project
7.   The key objectives envisaged at appraisal of the Gas Investment Project are given as follows:
(a)   Augment the supply of gas and LPG for domestic use and substitute petroleum products,
which could be exported and contribute towards balance of payment support.
(b)   Improve the environment, particularly through capturing flared gas.
(c)    Seek institutional development in gras distribution activities.
(d)   Rationalize consumer pricing for natural gas, having achieved earlier such rationalization in
pricing petroleum products.
8.   There were two main physical components of the project. These were as follows:
(a)  Trans-Gulf Gas Component. This component comprised capturing about 70 MMCFD of
associated gas that was being flared in the offshore Gulf of Suez and at Sinai (Belayim Field),
processing it for recovery of dry gas, LPCG and condensate and transmit dry sales gas by pipeline to
In view of increasing demand, the Government imported 600,000 tons LPG in 1998. With increased natural gas supply
to the consumers, LPG imports are expected. to decline considerably.
2 Nile Gas is a company with major participation by the British Gas (UK) for the supply of natural gas in Upper Egypt.



Implementation Completion Report                                                     3
Suez for domestic consumption. The component was implemented by the Borrower - EGPC
(which was the holding company in charge of all petroleum activities in Egypt) - through ENPPI,
its fully owned engineering subsidiary.
(b)  Greater Cairo Gas Distribution Component. This component was designed to extend the
gas distribution network in Cairo and to cover additional households, commercial establishments,
and industries within designated areas of the city as Phase 2 of a program (initiated under IDA
Credit 1024-EGT). PETROGAS - a fully owned subsidiary of EGPC, solely responsible for gas
distribution to residential, commercial and industrial consumers, and sale of LPG - was the
implementing agency. The amount of the loan relating to this component was on lent by EGPC to
then PETROGAS.
9.   Besides these physical components, three studies to be conducted by EGPC formed part of the
project. The first study was to estimate the economic cost of gas supplied to different categories of
consumers (Gas Distribution Pricing Study); the second would identify future gas recovery projects (Gas
Development Planning Study); and the last would help to improve the production of higher value
petroleum products (Refinery Rehabilitation Study).
10.  EGPC and its affiliate companies concerned with the implementation of the project had prior
experience in the kind of work involved. The Bank correctly assessed that this local experience could be
drawn on for efficient and cost effective implementation.
B. Achievement of Objectives
11. Macro-economic. At the macro-economic level, the balance of payments in petroleum trading was
more or less constant during 1992-1998 largely due to increasing gas consumption in the domestic
market. Crude oil production remained almost static, around 43 million tons per year. However, gas
production rose from 8 to 12.5 million tons (of oil equivalent) or about 4.5 million tons (of oil
equivalent) over the period and, by and large, met the growth in consumption of energy within the
country, and in turn supported the balance of payments by contributing towards reduced import of value
added petroleum products.
12.  Sector Objectives
(a)  Institutional Development. In the gas sub-sector, some significant institutional changes
took place during the period. Upstream gas exploration and production had always been and
continues to be contracted to international oil companies under Production Sharing Agreements
(PSAs). EGPC had solely managed the gas transmission network and its operations. The
downstream distribution of gas was managed through its wholly-owned subsidiary company,
PETROGAS. PETROGAS functioned on a cost plus fee-for-service basis, the fee being determined
annually so as to maintain their financial viability or to enable them to fulfill covenants, if any. The
companies had little incentive to be cost efficient or expand their business. The Bank had
consistently advised EGPC to introduce a commercial culture in the functioning of the companies.
The Government made a major policy change when it decided to attract private investments in order
to expand domestic utilization of gas. As a first step, it spun off the gas utilization business from
the direct responsibility of EGPC. In March 1997, the Government established Gas Company of
Egypt (GASCO) owned 70 percent by EGPC and 30 percent by two other government companies
for gas processing, transmission and supply to bulk consumers under Investment Law 230. GASCO
could thus function as a commercial entity with financial autonomy. As a result of GOE's
encouragement to the private sector in expanding gas utilization, several companies including City
Gas, Nile Gas, and National Gas have been established within several governorates. These



Imilementation Completion Report                                                        4
companies have the mandate t:o construct City Gas distribution systems and supply piped gas to
consumers of all categories. PETROGAS continues to function as a wholly-owned subsidiary of
EGPC responsible for gas distribution in Cairo and other designated areas, but under a new name
"METROGAS".
(b)  Financial Aspects of former PETROGAS (and now METROGAS). In effecting the
institutional reforms, GOE had ensured that GASCO and the gas distribution companies in the
private sector had the needed financial viability and the incentive to operate efficiently.
PETROGAS, however, was initially affected adversely in the scope of its operations and the
Bank had expressed concern at the likely effect on its finances. Of its three businesses, namely,
bulk gas sales in Egypt, LPG( distribution in Egypt and City Gas Distribution in Cairo and
Alexandria, it lost bulk gas sales to GASCO (in March 1997) and LPG distribution to a newly-
formed PETROGAS (in mid-1999) through bifurcation. The residual function of City Gas
Distribution has been assigned to a new company, 'METROGAS'. Both PETROGAS (new) and
METROGAS will remain wholly-owned subsidiaries of EGPC. GOE has agreed to
METROGAS extending gas distributiorn to some other cities besides Cairo and Alexandria with
a view  to allowing the company to grow.  As a wholly-owned subsidiary of EGPC,
METROGAS will be remunerated on a cost-plus-fee basis, but EGPC will enable METROGAS
to comply with the financial covenants on debt-service coverage and self-financing ratios that
the old PETROGAS had agreed to comply with under the Project Agreement with the Bajnk.
(c)  Gas Tariffs. During the project iinplementation period, some progress was also made with
regard to rationalizing consumer gas tariffs. Effective from January 1998 the average consumer
tariff was raised equivalent to the LRMC' of supply. However, there is a cross subsidy provided to
residential customers from commercial and industrial customers. The burden on the latter is but
small, whereas the residential consumers enjoy a large benefit, as they consume only about 1.5
percent of the total volume of gas sold. There are adequate gas reserves to cater to demand, if only
the infrastructure can be developed fast enough. However, there is a need to take steps to reduce
subsidies in tariff for the natural gas residential and commercial consumers (at present, it is 20
percent of the economic price) as well as, for LPG consumers, who are provided LPG at a subsidy
equivalent to 75 percent of economic price.
(d) Manpower Developmeint. The project enabled 80 employees of PETROGAS (now
METROGAS) to be trained abroad and about 7,000 staff to be trained in a training school
established by PETROGAS in Cairo. The school has also provided training to the guest workers
from other Arab countries.
13.  Physical Achievements. Both components of the project were completed successfully - TGGC in
July 1994 and GCGDC in June 199'3. The original project completion date was June 30 1997. Thus,
TGGJC was completed ahead of time. The core tasks of GCGDC, i.e., laying the network and connecting
new customers to gas was also completed prior to the original closing date. A peripheral piece of work,
providing an optional supervisory monitoring system (SCADA) delayed overall project completion by 10
months. TGGC achieved far higher recovery of LPG and condensate, about an average of 50 percent
above target quantities. Under GCGDC, about 25 percent more customers than originally planned were
connected to piped gas supply. (Actual figures of production are contained in para. 21.)
14.  All the studies have been carried out. The Gas Distribution Pricing Study carried out by consultants
was followed by other supplemental studies, also by consultants, under financing arranged by EGPC.
These studies helped to determine the LRMC of gas to bulk gas consumers and within Cairo, and in the
revision of gas tariffs effected from January 1., 1998. The Gulf of Suez Gas Development Study was
carried out by EGPC itself. Following it, EGPC financed a Phase II Project in the Gulf for additional gas



Implementation Completion Report                                                       5
recovery, dovetailing it to TGGC and commissioning it in March 1999. Canadian consultants carried out
the study of the refineries. EGPC is seeking private investments for modernizing the refineries.
15.  Financial/Economic Achievements
(a)  Project Costs - For TGGC, costs exceeded appraisal estimates by 37 percent ($85 million
compared to $62 million, excluding customs duties), mostly due to facilities having to be sized for
far larger yields of LPG and condensate than anticipated at appraisal. For GCGDC, the actual cost
was 46 percent over the appraisal estimate ($306 million compared to $209 million, excluding
taxes and duties). This is partly explained by the increase in the number of gas connections from
237,000 residential consumers at appraisal to 408,000 consumers on completion of the project. The
rest of the cost overrun was due to higher prices of materials and much higher engineering and
construction costs far beyond the price contingency provisions in the appraisal estimates. The Gas
Investment Project as a whole required a capital outlay of $391 million (excluding taxes and duties)
compared to the SAR estimate of $271 million - an overrun of 44 percent. The materials were
procured under the Bank's procurement procedures. ENPPI was responsible for procurement and
construction supervision for TGGC. For GCGDC, Egypt Gas (a company owned 70 percent by
PETROGAS and 30 percent by others) had the sole responsibility for detailed design and
procurement services, as well as the construction of networks, the installation of consumer piping
and the conversion of appliances.
(b) Financing - Thirty-three percent of the project financing was from external resources: 22
percent from IBRD, 7 percent from European Investnent Bank (EIB) and 4 percent from Arab-
Islamic Bank. The balance was provided from internal cash of EGPC/ PETROGAS.
(c)  Economic Rate of Return (ERR) - The reevaluated ERR from the Gas Investment
Project as a whole comes to 19 percent compared to the appraisal (SAR) estimate of 18 percent.
By components, TGGC would yield 31 percent against 28 percent at appraisal and GCGDC, 10
percent against 16 percent at appraisal. These returns are satisfactory. The lower return from
GCGDC compared to the expected return at appraisal is mainly due to increases in the
investment costs (adjusted for inflation), as explained in para. 15(a). The investment costs were
also relatively lower under the first Cairo Gas Distribution Project, where the ERR was
reevaluated at 14 percent (PPAR Report 6860 of June 24, 1997).
16. ERR in City Gas Distribution. A few salient factors that affected the ERR of GCGDC are
worthy of note when extending distribution of gas to other cities. First is the price of oil/oil products.
In April 1999, when the ICR was taken up for preparation, Brent blend crude oil (benchmark) was
selling at $15! barrel and the outlook at that time for a higher price for oil looked bleak. But OPEC
and some other oil exporting countries then decided to adopt production quotas and have achieved
success in adhering to the quotas. As a result, oil prices have risen, attaining $27/ barrel for Brent
blend in November 1999 (seasonal effect included). The OPEC target is, however, a $21/ barrel with
seasonal variations around that figure. Although this figure will be barely reached as the average for
1999, it seems highly probable that in 2000 and beyond, OPEC will succeed in achieving it.
Accordingly, for ERR calculations for the Project as a whole and the two major components of
TGGC and GCGDC, the price for crude oil is assumed at $21/ barrel (in 1999 $).3 The second factor
3 A sensitivity analysis was made in the low case of oil price at $1 5/barrel yielding ERR of GCGDC at 5 percent, median
case of oil price at $2 1/barrel yielding ERR of 10 percent, and high case with oil price of $27/barrel resulting in ERR of 4
percent.



Implementation Completion Report                                                        6
to be mentioned is the consumer-mix. In Greater Cairo, residential consumption would constitute 35
percent and commercial and industrial, 65 percent. It is the latter group of consumers with its very
low capital investment per unit of gas consumed that will contribute significantly to the economic rate
of return as the gas tariff tax residential consumers is highly subsidized. The third factor is the
investment costs. For GCGDC, these costs could perhaps have been lower had not only the materials
been procured under ICB procedures of Bank's Procurement Guidelines, but instead of direct contract
also the engineering and construction of the network was procured under the Bank procedures. The
latter was financed and contracted out by PETROGAS to Egypt Gas, an affiliate of EGPC on a
negotiated basis.
17.  Social Impact. The Project has indirectly contributed towards achieving social objectives. With
the supply of gas to over 700,000 consumers in Greater Cairo area, the quality of life of the average
Egyptians, particularly their families have significantly improved, with clean fuel from the gas tap in the
kitchmn. Previously, they had to make special efforts to transport kerosene and LPG cylinders in high rise
apartments. The time spent on cooking and the cost of fuel has declined considerably contributing to the
economic and health benefits of a family (as kerosene contains sulfur, fumes and particulates, which are
injurious for health and the clean naturavl gas has a higher burning efficiency than kerosene).
18.  Gender Impact. The most significant beneficiaries of the gas distribution component of this
project are female consumers, who are about 50 percent of the population. Since the chores of cooking
fall on women folk in Egypt, they faced difficulties in carting kerosene and LPG cylinders, particularly in
poorer areas. With the availability of piped natural gas to their cookers and availability of clean fuel,
cooking chores have been eased may also entail a health benefit as above for the whole household. over
biomass or kerosene.
C. Implementation Record an(d Major Factors Affecting the Project
19. Trans Gulf Gas Component. TGGC was completed by mid July 1994, ahead of the schedule.
GCGDC was however delayed, requiring an extension of the loan closing date by 18 months. Although
most of the core components, i.e., residential units, commercial establishments, and industries were
connected to gas according to the original schedule, the implementation of the SCADA system was
delayed. To complete this last control, the closing date was extended from December 31, 1997 to June 30,
1999 Additional details on the implementation factors of importance follow.
20.  During implementation of TGGC, in order to improve oil recovery from the October Field, the
Operator decided to install gas-lift method of oil production. Significant changes had to be made in the
design of the offshore platform originally designed to house gas compressors to compress recovered flared
gas and to transmit it to shore. The modified design of the platform provided for the dual purpose of gas
compression and gas lift. The revised cost of the platform was allocated between the two duties. On
commissioning of the offshore gas-turbine compressors, some liquid entrainment problems were
encoumtered, which the suppliers successfully remedied. The construction contractors, who had done a
good job in adhering to the timetable for construction, nevertheless had shown some carelessness in the
disposal of construction wastes and the maintenance of a clean working environment. Bank staff pointed
out these deficiencies and advised that manuals on waste management be prepared for guidance to
personnel.
21. Greater Cairo Gas Distribution Complonent. PETROGAS implemented the project in an
efficient manner. Although the effectiveness of the loan was delayed by 14 months, PETROGAS
prepared and processed all bidding documents during this period and finalized contracts as soon as the
Loan was declared effective. Meanwhile, they used material in stock and replenished them when



Implementation Completion Report                                                       7
procurement under the loan commenced. The anticipatory action taken by PETROGAS obviated a
corresponding delay in project implementation.
22.  Significant delays occurred in the installation and commissioning of the Supervisory Control and
Data Acquisition System (SCADA) for monitoring and controlling gas distribution operations in Cairo.
The first cycle of bidding had to be abandoned due to unsatisfactory bid specifications (consultant having
done a poor job) and a second cycle was undertaken. The SCADA contract could only be finalized in
November 1997, making it necessary for the loan closing date to be extended to June 30 1999, which was
long enough to accommodate a subsequent delay in the delivery of some crucial instruments and
equipment by a sub-contractor.
D. Project Sustainability
23. Both TGGC and GCGDC had follow-on projects planned and implemented by EGPC/PETROGAS.
In respect of TGGC, the follow-on Phase II expansion completed by EGPC added very substantially to the
volume of gas, LPG and condensate. Against the SAR output figures of 60 MMCFD of dry gas, 35
tons/day of LPG and 900 barrels/day of condensate, the achievement under the Bank project was 65
MMCFD of dry gas, 200 tons/day of LPG and 1500 barrels/day of condensate. EGPC's Phase II Project -
a follow-on expansion - has increased production to 105 MMCFD of dry gas, 650 tons/day of LPG and
4000 barrels/day of condensate. As for GCGDC, the SAR had envisaged 240,000 customer connections.
In fact, 300,000 customers were actually connected under the Bank project. The follow on project of
PETROGAS has brought up the number of customer connections to 408,000. Sustainability of the Bank
project - as evidenced by the achievements of the follow-on projects appears assured.
E. Bank Performance
24.  Through all phases of the project, from identification to completion, the Bank and the implementing
agencies cooperated in full measure. The project was identified as appropriate choice within the
petroleum sub-sector, in line with two power sub-sector projects of the time, and complementing GOE's
Structural Adjustment Program of 1989 (supported by an IBRD Structural Adjustment Loan) approved in
June 1991.
25.  Preparation of the Gas Investment Project presented no difficulties. The Gulf of Suez Petroleum
Company, the joint operating company (AMOCO and EGPC as partners) in the Gulf of Suez had all basic
data needed to prepare TGGC. PETROGAS, similarly, had full details and plans for expansion of gas
distribution in Cairo for GCGDC. The Bank interacted with these companies, as well as with
EGPC/ENPPI and the project took shape regarding design, works to be done, and approximate costs and
justification. The issue of pricing of petroleum products had been resolved in March 1990, but the pricing
of natural gas to consumers remained to be addressed. In preparing the project, a pricing study was
accordingly included, in addition to other studies 4 for increasing gas supply made under the direction of
EGPC.
26.  A Bank team comprising six members with expertise in gas reservoirs, gas engineering, marketing
and distribution, energy economics, finance, and refining appraised the project. It elaborated the
conceptual framework of the project and set out a blue print for implementation. Detailed preparation
included determining material packages to be procured and works contracts to be awarded, in optimum
sizes for cost efficiency and speedy implementation. Time schedules were established, cost estimates
were itemized, and studies were designed. The meticulous attention given to all aspects of the project in
4 Gas Master Plan Study.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                    8
appraisal helped in supervision.  Nevertheless, SCADA  installed for overseeing gas distribution
operations in Cairo does not appear to have been explicitly covered at appraisal. It was as late as mid-
1994 that the Bank approved discussions with consultants for the initiation of the SCADA scheme. This
is not to suggest that there was a scrious omission at appraisal, since the project could have been
implemented without SCADA with higher operating cost and higher risks in densely populated areas. Its
installation was, however, in line with good industrial practices in developed countries.
27.  Periodic supervision missions visited Cairo and the project sites during the implementation of the
project. The aide-memoires show that the agencies concerned received timely advice on finding solutions
to technical and procurement problerms and issues relating to compliance with the covenants.  More
notably, the supervision missions reviewed the progress in the gas sub-sector as a whole, including new
reserves, investment plans, policies on pricing, institutional reforms, private sector induction and related
matters. The missions had useful discussions from time to time with the Ministry of Planning and
International Co-operation  (MOPIC), Ministry  of Petroleum  (MOP), EGPC, PETROGAS, other
subsidiaries of EGPC and private companies. Such discussions apparently had some positive effect on the
developments in the sector. The Bank's Resident Mission in Cairo took an active interest in the working
of the supervision missions and provided the follow-up as needed.
28.  Bank Performance was, therefore, satisfactory through all stages. The perfornance ratings given in
the Project Status Reports (Form 590) have been appropriate.
F. Borrower Performance
29. EGPC (Borrower) was directly responsible for TGGC. The Public Sector Consulting Engineering
Company for Petroleum and Petro Chemical Industry (ENPPI) assisted it in design, project management
and construction supervision. At all stages of the project cycle, the performance of EGPC/ENPPI was
highly satisfactory.
30.  PETROGAS assumed all responsibility for GCGDC. Its performance was also satisfactory at all
stages of the project cycle. Although the SCADA scheme was not taken up until mid-1994, SCADA
could still have been installed and commissioned within the original loan closing date, had the consultants
presented, in the first instance, a bid package with precise specifications. The specifications had to be
revised, leading to a second cycle of bidding and project delay. But for the delay with SCADA,
PETROGAS would merit a highly satisfactory rating for performance.
31. EGPC/PETROGAS complied with the covenants, except that EGPC delayed submission of the
audited accounts beyond due dates for reasons (consolidation delays and non-computerization) 5 whiclh the
Bank could accept.
5 On compliance with covenants, one covenant where Bank had to condone delays in compliance was the submnission of
the consolidated audited financial statements of EG]'C within six months of the closing of the fiscal year.
EGPC[.PETROGAS complied with the other covenants in due time. EGPC owns a number of subsidiary companies, each
of which prepares its audited financial statements withfin six months of the closing of the fiscal year. But EGPC
necessarily waits for the financial statements from the subsidiaries so do the auditors of the accounts of EGPC and
invariably time runs out. Considering that large companies, with affiliates, the world over do compile consolidated
accounts and do present them to the shareholders in far less time than six moths, EGPC would be well advised to emulate
them. Computerization of the accounts of EGE'C and of its subsidiaries has not proceeded far enough to facilitate prompt
presentation of the financial statements. Nevertheless, a 'satisfactory' for overall compliance with covenants is
appropiiate.



Implementation Completion Report                                                        9
G. Assessment of Outcome
32.  The project outcome is deemed 'satisfactory'. The foregoing discussion has explained why a
'satisfactory' rating has been given against the different elements - achievement of objectives,
implementation record, borrower performance etc.. Delay in completing the project by 18 months is the
one major deficiency, but for which a 'highly satisfactory' rating would be justified.
H. Future Operations
33.  TGGC has been operating successfully since July 1994. GCGDC has also been successfully
supplying gas to all new customers under the project. Follow-up investments have taken the Bank project
under both components far beyond the original scope. EGPC and PETROGAS receive daily reports of
operational performance, the arrangements for which are satisfactory.
-. Key Lessons Learned
(a) A project for city gas distribution should be planned after careful collection of economic data and
analysis of the economic costs and benefits. Unless there are space heating and/or the distribution area
includes medium level bulk consumers such as commercial establishments and small scale industries in
sufficient numbers, which otherwise would not be supplied with gas directly, there may be no economic
justification.
(b)  Sector reforms, privatization and price increases to attain economic levels succeed in the long-term,
although not necessarily in the short term. In Egypt, the Bank steadfastly persisted in its advice on
these measures in the Energy Sector and it is gratifying that the advice was ultimately appreciated.
As a result of it and other reasons, there has been an upsurge in the development of the gas sub-sector
in the recent three or four years.
(c)  Supervisions are important and must be regularly scheduled. The missions must use the opportunity
not only to oversee progress of the project and solve problems, but also study the developments in the
sector and offer unobtrusive guidance and advice.
(d)  In procurement of specialized contracts, as in SCADA, the Borrower should be assisted by the
specialists, specialized in the field to obviate the difficulties experienced in this project. These specialists
could first be tapped from the Bank's in-house resources, and supplemented by outside consultants, if
necessary.



Implementation Completion Report                                                               10
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
GAS INVESTMENT ]DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3354-EGT)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:               Summary of Assessments
Table 2:               Related IBRD Loans/IDA Credits
Table 3:              Project Timetable
Table 4:               Loan Diisbursements: Cumulative, Appraisal Estimate and Actual
Table 5:              Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:               Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:               Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:              Project Costs
Table 8B:              Project Financing
Table 9:              Econornic Costs and Benefits
Table 9A:              Trans-Gulf as Cornponent - Economic Costs & Benefits
Table 9B:             Econornic Rate of Return
Table 9C:             ERR of Gas Investment Project
Table 10:              Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:              Compliance with Operational Manual
Table 12:              Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:              Bank Resources: Missions
Annexes
A. Mission's Memorandum of Understanding
B.  Trans-Gulf Component: Borrower's Perspective
C   Greater Cairo Gas Distribution Component: Borrower's Perspective



Implementation Completion Report                                                                   11
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives    Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro-economic policies              X         _
Sector policies                      X
Financial objectives                 X
Institutional development            X                        _
Physical objectives                  X
Poverty reduction                                                                      N.A.
Gender concerns                                                                       N.A.
Other social objectives                                                               N.A. J
Environmental objectives             X                                                 N.A.
Public sector management             X
Private sector development           X
B. Project sustainability |         Likely                  Unlikely             Uncertain
Operational&Policy_                      X_
C. Bank performance          Highly satisfactory         Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                                                    X X
Preparation assistance                                            X
Appraisal                                                         x
Supervision                                                       X
D. Borrower performance          Highly satisfactory         Satisfactory           Deficient
Preparation                                                       X
Implementation                                .                   X
Covenant compliance                                               X
Future Operation                                                  X
E. Assessment of          Highly          Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory          Highly
outcome             Satisfactory                                          Unsatisfactory
_ X
5
The benefits have accrued to women, who are most involved in cooking. The substitution of kerosene (with sulfur
base) and LPG (ex-refmery-sulfur based) with natural gas has reduced health hazards. Clea natural gas fuel has
significantly contributed in reducing environmental pollution.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                  12
Table 2: Related ][BRD Loans/IDA Credits
Date of
Loan No.                   Title                   Amount    Approval             Status
_                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(US$ m)  (FY)
L-1453     Regional Electrification                 48.0     77           Closed
L 1733     Power Generation                        102.0    79            Closed
Cr-0935    Power Generation                         37.0      79           Closed
L-1732     Gulf of Suez                             75.0     79           Closed
]-1886-0    Power III                                7.0      80           Closed
L-1886-1    Power III                                59.0     84           Closed
Cr- 1052    Power III                               120.0    80            Closed
Cr-1 024    Cairo Gas Distribution                  50.0      80           Closed
L-1928     Western Desert Gas Ex loration           25.0     81           Closed
L-2103    Abu Qir Gas Development                   90.0     82           Closed
Cr-1162    Technical Assistance                      6.9      81           Closed
L-2460     Construction Industry                    51.6     84           Closed
L-2594    Vocational Training (Electricity)         19.3     85           Closed
L-2732     Channel Maintenance                      45.0     86           Closed
L-3103     Power IV                                165.0    89            Closed
L-3137    Engineering and Tech. E,ducation          30.5     90           Closed
L-3441     Kureimat Power                          220.0    92            Closed
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                   Date Panned             Actual Date
Concept Review                                         January 6, 1988        January 6, 1988
Preparation                                            May 10, 1988            May 10, 1988
Appraisal                                            November 26, 1990      November 26, 1990
Ne gotiations                                          May 30, 1991            May 30, 1991
Lelter of Development Policy (if applicable)                N.A
Board Presentation                                     June 21, 1991           June 21, 1991
Signing                                              September 26, 1991     September 26, 1991
Effectiveness                                        December 26, 1999       September 3, 1992
First tranche release (if applicable)                       N.A                    N.A
Mid-term review (if applicable)                            KN.A                    N.A
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)         N.A                     N.A
Project Completion                                   December 31, 1997         May 31, 1999
Loan Closing                                         December 31, 1997         June 30, 1999
Last Disbursement                                      April 30, 1998        November 5, 1999



Implementation Completion Report                                                             13
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative, Appraisal Estimate and Actual
(US$ million)
FY92      FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99    FY00
Appraisal     7.7       43.2     58.5    69.3    80.6    84.0    84.0         84.0     84.0
Actual         -        18.4     46.2    56.0    65.8    72.0    75.2         81.6     83.7
Percent of     0        42.6     79.0    80.8    81.6    85.7    89.5         97.1     99.6
Appraisal
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in            Estimated                        Actual
SAR/President's Report     l
1. To minimize flaring of natural gas   1. To capture wet gas from  1. Gas Flaring minimized after
and increasing the delivery and    offshore October and from Sinai  completion of Transgulf
production volume of natural gas.  (Belayim) field and transmit 60  component. Dry gas sales have
Increase exports potential of natural  MMCFD dry sales gas to Suez  been increased to I00MMCFD
gas by substituting gas for higher  area and releasing liquid      cubic feet per day, thus
value tradable petroleum products.  products for export.           releasing additional liquid
petroleum for export.
2. Decreasing emission of carbon   2. Decrease emission by providing  2. PETROGAS completed SAR
dioxide and sulfur oxides to      natural gas to additional        implementation target by 1997
improve air quality.               237,000 residential, 4,000      as planned and improved
commercial and 21 industrial    marketing by making gas
consumers by 1997.              available to over 1 million
consumers in Egypt, until June
30, 1999, thus decreasing
emission of C02 and sulfur
dioxide and improve air
quality.
3. Continue institutional building  3.  Strengthen PETROGAS's      3. PETROGAS's financial
efforts to increase the           performance.                     performance improved.
commercialization of PETROGAS.
4. Timely implementation of        4. Completion by July 1994.     4. Completed in July 1994.
Transgulf component.



Implementation Completion Report                                                               14
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key operating indicators in        Estimated                      Actual
SAR/President's Report
1. Volume of petroleum products    1. Natural gas supply increase to  1. Natural gas supply to the
substituted with natural gas.     the network by 60 MMCFD as    network was increased by
2. Volume of natural gas captured by  a result of decreased flaring.  100 MMCFD.
reducing flaring.               2. Reduce pollution by providing  2. Significant reduction in
3. Reducing Pollution and improve air    gas to additional 237,000  pollution occurred and
quality in Greater Cairo.         residential, 4,000 conmmercial    improvement in air quality
4. Achieve economic operation of      and 21 industries that were   achieved as natural gas was
Transgulf component.              eailier using liquid petroleum.    provided to additional
408,000 residential, 6,000
commercial and 21 industrial
consumers in Greater Cairo
Area.
3. EGPC got over 40 percent
______________________               _ROR on Transgulf.
I['able 7: Studies Included in the Project
Studies                        Estimated                        Actual
1. Gas Distribution Pricing Study.   1. Expected completion by   1. DONG's Danish Consultant
2. Gulf of Suez Development          March 1993.                     completed the study on July
Study.                        2. EGPC to complete by 1994.       15, 1993.
I3. Refinery Rehabilitation Study.    3. Completion by 1994.     2. EGPC completed this study
and designed Transgulf
Phase II Project based on its
results.
3. CIDA financed this study
and completed in 1995. Its
results were used in the
rehabilitation of existing
L                                    references.



Implementation Completion Report                                                             15
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ milion)
A. Trans-Gulf Gas Component
Appraisal Estimates             Actual Costs
Local   Foreign              Local   Foreign
Item                Costs    Costs    Total    Costs    Costs    Total
Surveys/Basic Eng. & Design          0.35      0.60      0.95      0.82      0.82     1.64
Sinai/Belaim Area                    0.84      3.33      4.17      0.37      5.08     5.45
Offshore October Platform            3.94     18.10     22.04      0.67     27.97    28.64
Belayim/Oct. Submarine Pipeline      0.36      2.14      2.50      0.49      6.71     7.20
West Bank Facilities                 5.86     26.68     32.54      2.87     38.94    41.81
Total                               11.35     50.85     62.20      5.22     79.52    84.74
B. Greater Cairo Gas Distribution Component
Appraisal Estimates             Actual Costs
Local  Foreign               Local  Foreign
Item                  Costs    Costs    Total    Costs    Costs    Total
Materials                            1.29     77.76     79.05      4.62     87.60    92.22
Engineering & Construction &
Procurement Services               91.78     36.54    128.32     61.49    140.74    202.231
Market Development & Training        0.13      1.18      1.31      0.10      1.30      1.40
SCADA                                0.00      0.00      0.00      0.50     10.05     10.55
Total                               93.20    115.48    208.68     66.71    239.68    306.40j
|Gas Investment Project- as a whole    104.55    166.33    270.881    71.93    319.20    391.14
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimates         Actual Costs
Local  Foreign              Local   Foreign
Source                  Costs    Costs    Total    Costs       Costs   Total
IBRD                                   0.0     84.0      84.0       0.0      84.0    84.0
European Investment Bank               0.8     33.0      33.8       0.0      29.0    29.0
Islamic Bank                           0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      16.5    16.5
EGPC/ PETROGAS                       103.7     49.3    153.0       71.9     189.7   261.6
Total                                104.5    166.3    270.8       71.9     319.2   391.1



Implekrentation Completion Report                                                                             16
Table 9A: Trans Gulf Gas Component- Economic Costs & Benefits
Costs & Revenues (constant dollars)
Price of S ales gas           S    1.11 /MSCFD    (Long Run Marginal Cost)
Price of Condensate           $   21.00 /BBL         from 1999
Price of LPG                      360.18 /Ton        from 1999
Year   Capital   O & M    Gas Prodn.  Condensate   LPG Prodn.                                                 Flow
(FY)  Cost $M   Cost $M    MMSCFD    I3BL/Day         Tons/Day          Gas   Condensate          LPG
1992     25.79                                                                                              (25.79)
1993     51.12                                                                                              (51.12)
1994     21.94                                                                                              (21.94)
1995      0.86      1.98          54         1004          100        21.78          5.50          9.53      33.96
1996      2.59      1.98          54         1004          100        21.78          5.50          9.53      32.24
1997      6.90      1.98          65         1209          121        26.22          6.62         11.53      35.49
1998      5.18      1.98          65         1209          121        26.22          6.62         11.53      37.21
1999      2.63      1.98          65         1209          121        26.33          9.27         15.91      46.91
2000                2.34          65         1500          200        26.33         11.50         26.29      61.79
2001                2.34          65         1500          200        26.33         11.50         26.29      61.79
2002                2.34          65         1500          200        26.33         11.50         26.29      61.79
2003                2.34          65         1500          200        26.33         11.50         26.29      61.79
2004                2.34          65         1500          200        26.33         11.50         26.29      61.79
2005                2.34          59         1350          180        23.70         10.35         23.66      55.37
2006                2.34          53         1215          162        21.33          9.31         21.30      49.60
2007                2.34          47         1094          146         19.20         8.38         19.17      44.41
2008                2.34          43          984          131         17.28         7.54         17.25      39.73
2009                2.34          38          886          118         15.55         6.79         15.53      35.53
2010                2.34          35          797           106        14.00         6.11         13.97      31.74
2011                2.34          31          717           96         12.60         5.50         12.58      28.33
2012                2.34          28          646           86         11.34         4.95         11.32      25.26
2013                2.34          25          581           77         10.20         4.45         10.19      22.50
2014                2.34          23          523           70         9.18          4.01          9.17      20.02
2015                2.34          20          471           63          8.26         3.61          8.25       17.78
ERR=                                                                                                            31%
NOTE:
TGGC -was completed in July 1994. EGPC followed on with its own Phase II during FY95-FY99. This latter project
physically integrated with TGGC. For example, the new L]PG Recovery Unit used a state-of-art process for total
extraction of LPG from all of the wet gas. Thus TGGC benefited as more LPG could be produced due to Phase II than
before tnder TGGC as such. The table, accordingly, includes costs in FY95-99 allocable to TGGC for the additional
production of LPG and other products. On the benefit side, production volumes were allocated between TGGC and Phase
II and fie table shows the former from FY2000. The economic value of gas has been taken as its LRMC of $1.105/MCF.
As fuel oil substitute value, it would be double the LRMC. LRMC is more appropriate, although it depresses the ERR, as
the present situation is 'gas supply in excess of demand'.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                17
Table 9B: Economic Rate of Return
GCGDC-ERR Calculations
FY  1993       1994    1995    1996    1997        1998  1999-2010
BENEFITS
Value of Fuels Substituted (US$ Million)
LPG                                                             4.03    8.67   21.68   23.76       23.79       32.82
Fuel Oil                                                        1.61    3.57    4.13    4.68         5.15       6.30
Gas Oil                                                         2.35    4.91    5.03    5.46         6.14       7.52
Kerosene                                                        0.01    0.14    0.43    0.59         0.59       0.72
Gas Qualitative Benefits                                        0.54    1.10    2.74    2.95         2.95       2.95
(at $30 in residences & $15 in
Commercial units/ per million cm)
TOTAL ECONOMIC BENEFITS                                 0.00    8.53   18.39   34.01   37.44       38.61       50.30
COSTS
PETROGAS INVESTMENTS                                   42.81   49.95   55.25   60.02  106.70        14.40
Bottles Returned                                              (5.39)  (4.05) (12.77)    0.00
Customer Investments                                            0.02    0.90    2.07    1.14
0 & M Costs                                                     3.29    3.29    3.29    4.94         4.94       4.94
Cost of Gas                                                     2.05    4.45    7.13    7.89         8.28       8.28
TOTAL ECONOMIC COSTS                                   42.81   49.93   59.84   59.73  120.67        27.62      13.22
Net Economic Benefits                                (42.81) (41.39) (41.45) (25.72) (83.23)        10.99      37.09
ERR=                                        10%
Assumptions and Bases-GCGDC ERR
Substitution Ratios Product by Gas
Residential    Commercial     Industrial
LPG                                                      1.000          0.710         0.012
Fuel Oil                                                                0.210         0.500
Gas Oil                                                                               0.487
Kerosene                                                                0.080         0.001
1.000         1.000         1.000
Conversion Factor                          Thermal    Thermal    Conversion         Import! Export
& Economic Prices                       Equivalent   Efficiency        Factor   Parity Price
Ratio in '000     Ratio    (ton/MCM)           $/ton        pt./cm
Natural Gas            BTU/MCM              35300         90%
LPG                    BTU/ton              42850         89%           0.833          360          100.2 Import
Fuel Oil               BTU/ton              36600         80%           1.085          105           38.1 Export
Gas Oil                BTU/ton              38400         85%           0.973          176           57.3 Import
Kerosene               BTU/ton              39600         85%           0.944          193           60.9 Import
Crude Oil-Brent                                                                 $    21.00 OPEC Target- from 1999
Crude Oil-Suez                                                                  $    19.00    mean for   each year
LRMC of Gas for bulk deliveries (e.g., city gate)
British Gas updated- Production from                                      i.e.,
New Fields-20 Years            3.90 US cents/cm      $  0.039            0.13 L.E/cu.m



Implementation Completion Report                                                                               18
Table 9C: ERR of GAS INVESTMENT PROJECT
GCGDC               TGGC                 Total
Net EBenefits       Net Benefits          Benefits
(In Million Dollars)
1992            0.00               (25.79)             (25.79)
1993           (42.81)             (51.12)             (93.93)
1994           (41.39)             (21.94)             (63.33)
1995           (41.45)              33.96               (7.49)
1996           (25.72)              32.24                6.52
1997           (83.23)              35.49               (47.74)
1998            10.99               37.21               48.20
1999            37;r.09             46.91               84.00
2000            35.44               61.71               97.15
2001            35.44               61.71               97.15
2002            35.44               61.71               97.15
2003            35 .44              61.71               97.15
2004            3 5.44              61.71               97.15
2005            35.44               55.37               90.81
2006            35.44               49.60               85.04
2007            35.44               44.41               79.85
2008            35.44               39.73               75.17
2009            35.44               35.53               70.97
2010            35.44               31.74               67.18
2011            35.44               28.33               63.77
2012            35.44               25.26               60.70
2013            35.44               22.50               57.94
2014            35.44               20.02               55.46
2015            35.44               17.78               53.22
ERR=             1(%                 31%                  19%



Implementation Completion Report                                                                19
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
LOAN
AGREEMENT    Status   Original   Revised              Covenant Description         Comments
SECTION                   Date       Dates
2.02 (b)             C     Annual                 The borrower may open and        None
01                                            maintain in dollars a special account
in the National Bank of Egypt on
terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank.
5.01 (a) (iii)      CD    Annual                  The borrower shall furnish to the  See Footnote
02                                          Bank not later than 6 months after    #4 on pp. 8.
the end of each fiscal year: (a)
certified copies of its financial
statements; and (b) the report of
audit acceptable to the Bank.
PETROGAS
PROJECT        Status   Original   Revised          Covenant Description          Comments
AGREEMENT                   Date       Date
SECTION
4.01 (b) (iii)       C     Annual                 PETROGAS shall furnish to the    None
02                                         Bank not later than 6 months after
the end of each fiscal year: (a)
certified copies of its financial
statements; and (b) the report of
audit acceptable to the Bank.
4.02 (a)            C      Annual                 PETROGAS shall not incur any     None
03                                            debt, unless the net revenues of
PETROGAS for the fiscal year shall
be at least 1.5 times the estimated
maximum debt service requirements
of PETROGAS for any succeeding
fiscal year on all debt of
PETROGAS.
4.03 (a)             C     Annual         =       PETROGAS shall produce, for each  None
03                                            of its fiscal year, funds from internal
sources equivalent to not less than
25 percent of the annual average of
PETROGAS' capital expenditures
incurred.
Key to Status:
C          = Complied with
CD         = Compliance after Delay
NC         = Not Complied with
Soon       = Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP         = Complied with Partially
NYD        = Not Yet Due



Implementation Completion Report                                                                 20
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Al he statements of the Operational Manual have been complied with.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                Planned               Revised                  Actual
Project Cycle       Weeks       US$(000    Weeks       USS        Weeks        US$(000)
Identificationi               -               _                          114.5         250.7
Preparation                         .          _
_ppraisal/Negotiations        -           -   _                            37.7        114.9
Supervision                                                              165.1         541.0
pletion /a                -                                            2.1          12.5
TOIAL                         -                                          318.4         919.1
/a T he ICR completion costs are lower as most of the preparation work for the draft ICR was carried out in the last
supervision mission.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                        21
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of                Number   Days   Specialized              Ratings          Types of Problems
Project Cycle    Date         of        in      Staff Skills    Implementation
Persons   Field   Represented        Development
Status
Objectives
Identification   09/06/87      3         10        E, FA,          n.a.      n.a.
Preparation      01/22/88      5         20     C, Ec, Sp, E,      n.a.      n.a.
FA
Pre-appraisal    08/27/90      4         10    Sp, Ec, Sp, FA      n.a.      n.a.
Appraisal        11/26/90      5         12    Sp, E, Sp, Ec,      n.a.      n.a.
Sp
Appraisal to       No                                              n.a.      n.a.
Loan             missions
Effectiveness
Supervision 1    07/22/91      1         7           E             n.a.      n.a.
Supervision 2    02/08/92      2         10        Sp, C            S         S
Supervision 3    06/28/92      2         10        Sp, C            S         S
Supervision 4    11/15/92      1         10         Sp              S         S
Supervision 5    05/04/93      2         10        Sp, C            S         S
Supervision 6    10/16/93      3         10       Sp, C, C          S         S
Supervision 7    05/14/94      2         10        Sp, C            S         S
Supervision 8    11/03/94      3         7        Sp, C, C          S         S
Supervision 9    04/18/95      2         5         Sp, C                 S    S
Supervision 10    01/10/96     3         10       Sp, CC            S         S
Supervision I1    05/08/97     3         12       Sp, C, C          S         S
Supervision 12    10/28/97     2         7         Sp, C            I         1    Bidding process for
SCADA was repeated.
Delay in implementing
SCADA contract may
______I cause problems.
Supervision 13    02/02/98     1         10         Sp1                       1    SCADA
Supervision 14    04/16/98     2         11        Sp, C            1         1    Procurement
Supervision 15    03/17/99     4         12     Sp, FA, E, C        1         1
Key to specialized staff skills:                        Key to ratings: Implementation status
E     = Engineer                                        as shown in Project Status Report (Form 590':
Ec   = Economist                                        1= no significant problems;
FA    = Financial Analyst                               2= moderate problems;
L     = Lawyer                                          3= major problems, actions being taken;
Sp.   = Specialist                                      4= major problems, actions yet to be addressed;
C     = Consultant
Env  = Environmental Specialist
Key to ratings: Development objectives                  S   = Satisfactory
as shown in Project Status Report (Form 590):           U  = Unsatisfactory
1= all objectives substantially achieved;              n.a. = not applicable
2= major objectives achieved, minor objectives remained;
3= major objectives are likely to be achieved;
4= major objectives not achieved;



Implementation Completion Report                                                          22
Annex A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
GAS INVESTMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3354-EGT)
MISSION'S MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
SUPERVISION/ICR MISSION
(March 1999)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank Mission comprising Messrs. Uruj Kirmani and P. Venugopal visited Cairo ifrom
March 19-26, 1999, to supervise the Gas Investment Project and discuss the preparation of the draft
Implementation Completion Report (ICR). Mr. Badr Kamel (Resident Mission, Cairo) was co-opted to
the mission at Cairo. Mrs. Zoubeida Ladhibi-Belk, Sector Manager, Energy, participated in the mission's
activities towards its conclusion and reviewed the progress in the gas sector with the concerned officials.
2.   The Mission held discussions with the officials of the Ministry of Planning and International
Cooperation (MOPIC), Ministry of Petroleum (MOP), Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC),
Petroleum Gas Company (PETROGAS) and Gas Company of Egypt (GASCO), among others. A list of
officials met is given in Attachment 1.
3.   The Mission wishes to express its thanks for the excellent cooperation and courtesies extended to it
by the officials of all the concerned agencies.
4.   The findings of the Mission, the agreemnents reached with EGPC and PETROGAS, and the
recoramendations made are summarized as under. A formal communication from the Bank Headquarters
will be sent to confirm or amend the Mission's findings as appropriate.
MISSION'S FINDINGS
5.   Overall Project Implementatioin. The CGas Investrnent Project comprises two components: (a)
Trans Gulf Gas Component (TGGC), with EGPC as the implementing agency; and (b) Greater Cairo Gas
Distribution Component (GCGDC), with PETROGAS as the implementing agency.
TRANS-GULF GAS COMPONENT
6.   The Mission was pleased to note that the facilities installed under Phase I of TGGC which were
comrnissioned in July 1994 have been operating satisfactorily with production of dry gas, LPG and
condensate well above SAR estimates. Under its own financing, EGPC has since expanded these
facilities under a Phase II program. Phase II of TGGC was commissioned in March this year. Dry gas
supplies to Suez area have increased from 65 million cubic feet per day (MMSCFD) under Phase I to



Implementation Completion Report                                                      23
about 105-110 MMSCFD on completion of Phase II. Production of LPG and condensate have also
increased substantially with almost maximum recovery of these products now being achieved through
installation of state-of-the art gas processing and natural gas liquid (NGL) recovery units under Phase II.
Significant environmental benefits (reduction in Green House gases) are accruing through the nearly total
elimination of flaring of natural gas and its capture, processing and utilization. High economic rates of
return of the order of 30% are expected under Phase I, to be enhanced further under Phase II.
GREATER CAIRO GAS DISTRIBUTION COMPONENT (GCGDC)
7.   PETROGAS had completed this component in June 1997 (original project closing date) in so far as
the core of the project was concerned, namely, laying the distribution network and extending gas
connections to customers in the Greater Cairo project area. In fact, it had exceeded the number of
connections by about 25% over the SAR estimates, by this period. But SCADA, a peripheral facility,
however, a useful supervisory equipment, had not been installed. Details concerning SCADA are
presented in the next section. PETROGAS continued adding new customer connections in Greater Cairo
in a program of its own outside of the Bank project and financing as from July 1997. As a result, 408,000
customers in Greater Cairo area are presently connected compared to about 240,000, i.e., about 70% more
than estimated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
SUPERVISORY CONTROL AND DATA ACQUISITION SYSTEM (SCADA)
8.   The contract for SCADA was finalized as late as November 1997 after much time had been lost in
tendering and re-tendering. According to the initial schedule under the contract, the SCADA system was
expected to be installed by December 31, 1998 and commissioned by January 31, 1999. The original
closing date of this loan was extended from December 31, 1997 to June 30, 1999 to ensure successful
completion of SCADA component. However, implementation delays occurred, as the sub-contractor
responsible for the supply of the Microwave equipment did not deliver the equipment in time, resulting in
delays in the installation work.
9.   PETROGAS discussed and agreed a revised implementation schedule with the previous supervision
mission (November/December 1998). According to it, the SCADA sub-project would be completed by
April 30 1999, and commissioned by May 31, 1999. The Mission inspected the project under
implementation and was satisfied with the progress achieved. PETROGAS assured the mission that the
project would be fully operational by May 31, 1999, i.e., well before June 30, 1999, the revised closing
date for the subject loan.
DISBURSEMENT
10. The Mission reviewed the disbursement status with MOPIC, EGPC and PETROGAS. Out of the
total loan amount of US$84 million, US$78.12 million (93% of the loan amount) had been disbursed as of
March 15, 1999. PETROGAS informed the mission that withdrawal applications for payments of about
$3.32 million under the Gas Meters and SCADA contracts had been sent to Washington. These were
expected to be disbursed soon. The remaining funds estimated at US$2.56 million would be utilized for
outstanding payments for SCADA equipment, for the SCADA consulting services, and the procurement
of the specialized spare parts. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed.
11. The Mission reminded PETROGAS/EGPC that all outstanding payment applications for the
contracts fully performed by June 30 1999, the closing date of the subject loan, should be sent to the Bank
as soon as possible, but not later than October 31, 1999.



Implepmentation Completion Report                                                        24
SPECI1AL ACCOUNT (S/A)
12.  The Mission reviewed the status of the Special Account. Out of US$5.0 million deposited in the
Spec:ial Account, as of March 24, 1999, US$258,000 remained unutilized. The Mission advised
PETROGAS to utilize these funds for outstanding payments. In case of any difficulty, PETROGAS would
seek guidance and assistance of Mr. Badr Kamel, at the Resident Mission, Cairo.
PROCUREMENT
13.  Out of total 16 contracts for PETROGAS, the last two contracts (Consultancy Services and
SCADA) are expected to be performed by May 31, 1999.
TRAINING
14.  All training plans envisaged under this project were successfully implemented. 65 members of
PETROGAS staff were trained abroad. In addition, about 7000 staff were trained in the Training Center
established by PETROGAS. This Center also trains staff from the other Arab countries in gas industry
skills.
PROJECT COSTS
15. Trans Gulf Gas component's (TGGC) costs had been reviewed during earlier missions. However,
for thie purpose of ICR, these were agaLin analyzed. A 37% increase in costs at $85 million of TGGC,
compared to SAR estimates of $62 million, was mainly attributable to: (i) expansion of facilities to
provide for far larger production of LPG and condensates); and (ii) to modify the offshore platform,
(originally designed for TGGC) to accommodate gas compressors required by the operating company
(GUPCO) to improve oil recovery from the offshore oilfields.
16.  The mission reviewed the revised project costs of the Greater Cairo Gas Distribution Component
with PETROGAS. The final project costs of this component are expected to be about US$306 million.
The h.igher costs compared to $206 million estimated in the SAR, reflect the physical increase in the scope
of work (by about 25% under the project) as well as account for the full cost of 'customer meters and
regulators' in residences. PETROGAS bore the latter costs instead of the customers as at first expected.
REORGANIZATION OF PETROGAS
17. The Mission learnt that, PETROGAS is about to be bifurcated into two EGPC subsidiaries, one for
LPG distribution in the country, and the other to be responsible for distribution of natural gas in the area
currently allocated to it by the Government, i.e., the current areas in Cairo covered by the network, and
specilied areas in Alexandria, Port Said, Ismalia and Fort Fuad.
18.  In order to spread gas distribution network, in the whole country, (geographical areas covering 23
governorates), the Government has assigned some areas, and intend to assign the remaining areas, to
private gas distribution companies set up under the Law of Investment. CITIGAS, EGYPTGAS,
NATGAS, Nile Valley Gas and REPCO have entered into contracts with EGPC/GASCO for taking
delivery of gas in bulk and collecting sales revenue from consumers according to tariffs determined by
EGPC (see para. 21). The companies themselves will receive agreed fees (unrelated to the consumer
tariffs) for each unit of gas handled for the different consumer categories.
19. As regards PETROGAS, earlier supervision missions had repeatedly pointed out that PETROGAS
lost a major source of sales revenue in March 1997, when gas supplies to power companies and industries



Implementation Completion Report                                                      25
were transferred to the newly-formed company, GASCO. It was therefore, not complying with financial
covenants in the years FY97 and FY98 on debt service times and self-generating ratios as required under
Article IV of the Project Agreement with the Bank (Ln. 3354-EGT). Nevertheless, since it had
accumulated cash through profits of the period earlier to March 1997, it could meet debt service
obligations and show that it could meet capital expenditure according to the self-generating ratios. But
FY 1998 has been the last year even to do so, since past cash accumulations have dwindled. In future it
would not be able to meet its debt service obligations.
20. PETROGAS (Natural Gas), the proposed new subsidiary of EGPC, which is being formed in the
public sector and would apparently inherit the obligations under the Project Agreement cited above, has
all the appearance of a financially unhealthy subsidiary, even to begin with. It has little scope for growing
either. The Mission has discussed this matter with MOP/EGPC, and has recommended, that, to ensure the
financial viability of PETROGAS (Natural Gas) appropriate measures may be taken by the
Government/EGPC, for placing PETROGAS' earnings and surpluses on a sound footing, and provide the
company with the incentives to function with economy, efficiency and cost consciousness. EGPC may
kindly inform the Bank about the steps taken in this matter as soon as possible, to ensure compliance of
the financial covenants of the Loan Agreement.
GAS/LPG TARIFFS
21.  PETROGAS informed the Mission that there was no change in sale price of Natural gas and LPG
to various categories of consumers.6 The current pricing structure for natural gas and LPG is given as
under:
Consumer Category                  Tariff (piastre per cubic meter)
Consumption:        0---30 CM                            10
30-60                               20
>60CM                               30
Commercial, Industrial, Power Sector
and Investment Companies                                 14.1
LPG                                 L.E 2.5/cylinder of 12.5kg
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
22. The Mission advised MOPIC, EGPC/ PETROGAS that, after completion of the project, the Bank
and the Borrower have to jointly prepare the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). In the ICR, an
assessment is made of the outcome of the project compared with objectives and targets stipulated at the
time of appraisal of the project and reflected in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
23.  Part A of ICR relating to the project and Part B (statistical data) are prepared by the Bank. The
Borrower has to provide Part C - Borrower's own assessment of the project, on completion. The Bank
will integrate both parts and prepare the draft ICR, which would be submitted, for review by the
Borrower. The Bank will finalize the ICR after taking into account the comments made by the Borrower.
24.  The Mission discussed the draft outline of the ICR (Part A) prepared by the mission with EGPC and
PETROGAS and obtained additional information to finalize the Bank's parts of the draft ICR. The



Implementation Completion Report                                                         26
missiLon also reviewed with EGPC and PETROGAS the progress of the Borrower's assessment of the
project, in terms of the outlines agreed with the last supervision mission. It requested EGPC and
PET]ROGAS to provide their contribution to the Resident Mission, Cairo (Mr. Badr Kamel) by April 15,
1999.
ACTIONS AGREED
25. The Mission discussed and agreed on the following steps to be taken:
EGP C/PETROGAS
(i)  EGPC will submit the Borrower's contribution to ICR to the RESIDENT MISSION, CAIRO
by April 15, 1999.
(ii) PETROGAS will closely monitor the Special Account and submit their report to the World
Bank Resident Mission, Cairo (Attention: Mr. Badr Kamel) by April, 30,1999, including the
details of the expenditures to be incurred by June 30,1999.
(iii) PETROGAS will closely monitor implementation of SCADA contract and complete this
contract by April 30 1999, ancd commission it by May 31 1999. PETROGAS will immediately
inform the Bank as soon as the SCADA sub-project is completed successfully.
(iv) The financial viability of PETROGAS (Natural Gas) mentioned in para. 20, the subject was
discussed with MOP, and EGPC. MOP assured the mission that the matter would be given due
consideration by the Government.
BAINiK
(a) The Bank will finalize the draft ICR after the receipt of the Borrower's contribution, and
submit it to the Government for the reviewv and clearance.
(b) The Resident Mission, Cairo will closely monitor all outstanding procurementldisbursement
issues. Mr. Badr Kamel, at the Resident Mission, Cairo, will be available for any assistance
requested by EGPC/PETROGA.S on these matters.
GENERAL
23.   This is the last supervision mission for this project.



Implementation Completion Report                                                       27
Attachment 1
EGYPT
GAS INVESTMENT PROJECT (Ln. 3354-EGT)
SUPERVISION /ICR MISSION
(March 1999)
List of Officials Met
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
Dr. Nadia El-Tatawy                    Head, Sector for Cooperation with
International and Regional Finance
Organizations
EGPC
1.    Mr. Hassn Akl                           Vice-Chairman for Production and Natural Gas
2.    Mr. Abdel Fatah Abuzaid                 Deputy Chairnan for Foreign Trade
PETROGAS
1.    Mr. Mustafa Tawil                       Chairman
2.    Mr. Mustafa Bakr                        Financial General Manager
3.    Mr. Mohsen Ahmed Othman                 Natural Gas General Manager
4.    Mr. Gamal Rashed                        Project Manager
GASCO
1.    Eng. Mohamed Tawila                     Chairman
2.    Eng.Hani Soliman                        General Manager
ENPP1
1.    Eng. Emad Abdel Latif                   Manager - Trans Gulf Project



Implemnentation Completion Report                                                       28
Attachment 1
Page 2
EGYPT
GAS INVESTMENT PROJECT (Ln. 3354-EGT)
SUPERVISION /1CR MISSION
(March 1999)
]DISTRIBlUTION LIST
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
Dr. Nadia El-Tatawy                 Head, Sector for Cooperation
with International and Regional Finance
Organizations
Ministry of Petroleum
Eng. Sanaa El-Bana                  First Under Secretary
EGPC
1.   Mr.Abdel Khalek Ayad                 Chairman
2.   Mr. Hassn Akl                        Vice-Chairman for Production and Natural Gas
3.   Mr.Abdel Fatah Abuzaid               Deputy Chairman for foreign Trade
PETROGAS
1.   Mr. Mustafa Tawil                    Chairman
2.   hIr. Mustafa Bakr                    Financial General Manager
3.   Mr. Mohsen Ahmed Othman              Natural Gas General Manager
4.   Mr. Gamal Rashed                     Project Manager
GASCC)
1.   E ng. Mohamed Tawila                 Chairman
World Bank
1.   Mr. Khalid Ikram                     Country Director - Egypt, Cairo
2.   Mr. Jean-Claude Villiard             Director, MNSID



Implementation Completion Report                                                         29
ANNEX B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
GAS INVESTMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3354-EGT)
TRANS-GULF GAS COMPONENT
EGYPTIAN GENERAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION (EGPC)
BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
INTRODUCTION:
1- Pursuant to the policy of The Government Of Arab Republic Of Egypt (GOE) for providing clean
fuel or residential, commercial and industrial consumers around Egypt, utilization of natural gas and
LPG for domestic to substitute liquid petroleum products which could be exported and earn foreign
exchange for the country and utilization of clean natural gas would be good for environment when
flared gas is captured and atmospheric pollution is prevented.
2- GOE requested World Bank assistance for investments needed to harnessing flared associated gas in
Gulf of Suez area and implement Trans gulf gas project, which included off shore production /
processing facilities, submarine pipelines, on shore gas treatment plants and 160 km dry sales high
pressure pipeline to supply gas in Suez area.
3- Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) signed a loan agreement with the World Bank in
1991 for gas investment project (Loan 3354-EGT).
4- EGPC was responsible for implementing of Trans-Gulf Gas Project component (TGGC) under this
loan. And conduct 3 studies that would assist the government and EGPC in petroleum sector
development.
OBJECTIVES
5- Trans-Gulf Gas Project was designed to achieve the following objectives of the government:
* to utilize flared gas in Sinai and offshore Gulf Of Suez area to gain economic an environmental
benefits;
* to extract value added LPG and condensate from the gas stream;
* to supply dry sales gas to Suez area consumers; and
* By preventing flaring, improve environment by reducing green house gases in the atmosphere.



Implementation Completion Report                                                        30
Imlementation
6- EGPC designed the Trans-Gulf gas project in two phases to stagger investments. Under this loan
Phase I of TGGC was implemented to process about 70 MMSCFD of wet gas and supply about 60
MMSCFD of dry gas to Suez area. In addition, about 200 tons /day LPG and 1500 bbls/day
condensate would recovered as value added products. Phase I included construction of offshore
platform, offshore gas compression and treatment facilities, onshore gas handling and processing
facilities and laying 160 km high pressure 16 inch dry gas pipeline from Ras Baker to Suez.
7- EGPC directly managed Trans-Gulf Gas Project; an Egyptian consulting company Engineering for
the Petroleum and Process Industries (ENPPI) was engaged by EGPC for detailed design,
engineering, procurement and construction supervision.
8- In spite of the several modifications in the project design to accommodate gas lift operation in
October field to improve oil recovery which included structured and process plant changes on the
offshore as well as improvement in onshore gas facilities, with good strategic planning and project
management, EGPC successfully completed this project in July 1994 as originally, estimated at
appraisal and achieved higher recoveries of 'LPG and condensate than the design targets. In this
effort, World Bank staffs closely cooperated and assisted EGPC.
9- Under its own financing EGPC has completed phase II of the Trans-gulf gas component in March
1999 at cost of about 115 mm US$, phase II included state of the art designed LPG recovery units,
gas compressors, LPG strategic storage facilities.
10- With completion of phase II of Trans Gulf project, all available flared gas has been captured in Sinai
and Gulf of Suez area. The overall out put has been:
* increased supply of 105 mm scfd dry sales gas to Suez area.
* additional LPG recovery of 450 - 500 tons / day.
* Additional condensate recovery of 2500 bbls/day making total condensate recovery from wet
gas 4000 bbls/day.
Maior factors affecting the proiect
11- One of the factors, which affected the project, was major structured design changes in the offshore
platform which would major changes in the original project scope.
12- The second major factor was, On commissioning of the off shore gas turbine driven compressors,
some liquid entertainment problerns were encountered.
13- EGPC successfully managed in resolving these problems and made appropriate amendments in the
contracts with the close cooperation and assistance of the World Bank.
14- With close cooperation between the management, the World Bank and all concerned parties, EGPC
was able to complete and commission the project in time and achieved higher than targeted results in
the LPG and condensate recovery.
Proiect sustainability
15- With the experience gained in the World Bank financed phase I of this project, EGPC has
successfully completed phase II which would add increase sales gas availability from 60 to 105 mm
scfd, in addition 450 ton/day LPG and 2500 bbls/day condensate would be recovered from phase II



Implementation Completion Report                                                     31
facilities. This completes Trans gulf gas project. The sustainability of the project is assured as the
economic and financial benefits would be maximized after the recovery and sales of dry gas and
value added LPG and condensate. The expanded utilization of natural gas would enable the
government to substitute liquid petroleum products with natural gas. These products could be
exported to earn valuable foreign exchange for Egypt.
Studies
16- EGPC conducted three studies under this project. These included:
*  Gas distribution pricing study was completed satisfactorily. The recommendations made in the study
were followed very useful for the government to formulate the gas distribution and pricing issues.
* Gas development study for Gulf of Suez was conducted in house by EGPC and the results of this
study were used for making further gas sector investments in the gulf of Suez e.g. TGGC phase II.
* Refinery sector study was made by the Canadian consultants and was successfully completed.
Bank Performance
17- Through all phases of the project, from identification to completion, the Bank and the EGPC
cooperated in full measure. The project was identified as a fitting choice within the petroleum
subsector to achieve the government objectives stated in para. 5.
18- Preparation of the Gas Investment project presented no difficulties. GUPCO, the joint sector
operating company (AMOCO and EGPC as partners) in the Gulf of Suez had all basic data needed to
prepare TGGC. The Bank interacted with these companies, as well as with EGPC/ENPPI and the
project took conceptual shape with respect to the design, works to be done and approximate costs and
justification. During implementation close cooperation and timely advice was available from the
Bank staff, which greatly assisted EGPC in resolving implementation issues in a timely manner. This
project is a good model of Bank / Borrower partnership for achieving good results in an efficient
manner.
Borrower Performance
19- EGPC (Borrower) was directly responsible for TGGC. ENPPI assisted it in design, project
management and construction supervision. At all stages of the project cycle, the performance of
EGPC/ENPPI was highly satisfactory.
20- EGPC project staff has got a lot of experience by interacting with the Bank staff and the Bank staff
were experienced to support project phases from feasibility till completion and broaden the aim and
contents of the studies done under the project loan and the study done by EGPC for evaluation of
LRMC.
Key Lessons Learned
21- The key lessons learnt by EGPC and agencies associated (e.g. ENPPI) with the project are:
* EGPC's close supervision of the consultants, the suppliers and their cooperation with the other
operating companies e.g. GUPCO, PETROBEL was essential in achieving excellent results.
* Good understanding should be reached on the project concept, design and implementation.
* Clear understanding between EGPC and the Bank and close supervision by the bank staff was
conducive in achieving the project objectives.



Implementation Completion Report                                                        32
Annex C
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPIJBLIC OF EGYPT
GAS INVESTMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3354-EGT)
GREATER CAIRO GAS ]DISTRIBUTION COMPONENT
BORROWIER'S PERSPECTIVE (PETROGAS)
Introduction
1 -   Pursuant to the policy of the Government of Arab Republic of Egypt (GOE) for providing clean
fuel for residential, commercial. and industrial consumers in greater Cairo area, and utilization of
natural gas to substitute liquefied petroleum products where could be exported and earn foreign
exchange for the country. One the utilizati.on of clean natural gas would also improve environment
and reduce pollution in greater Cairo area.
2 -    GOE requested World Bank assistance for the investments needed to expand the gas distribution
network, be addition, other donors, i.e., European investment bank and Islamic development bank
were also requested to support expansion of gas distribution network under the proposed project.
3 -   Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) signed a loan agreement with World Bank in
1991 for Gas Investment Project (Loan 3354- EGT).
4 -   PETROGAS, a 100 percent subsidiary cornpany of EGPC was made responsible for implementing
Greater Cairo Gas Distribution Component (GCGDC) under this loan. PETROGAS signed a
project agreement with World Bank in 1991.
Objectives and Implementation
5 -   PETROGAS would expand the gas distribution network in greater Cairo area by providing
additional 237000 residential, 4000 commercial and 21 industrial customers. PETROGAS would
establish a training center to train Egyptian in gas distribution and utilization technology, train its
staff in modern technology abroad and then train Egyptian staff in the training center.
iMeprementation
6 -   PETROGAS prepared the project in close cooperation with the world bank and satisfactorily
prepared all procurement documents well a head of the time before the loan was approved by the
world bank and declared effective by the bank, 14 month after the loan approval. As after loan
approved, ratification by Egyptian parliament and the legal approvals were obtained. PETROGAS
utilized equipment and material from its own stock that was later replenished after receiving
materials under World Bank financed contracts.



Implementation Completion Report                                                       33
7 -   With good strategic planning and project management, in spite of the delay in finalizing the World
Bank contracts (until the loan was declared effective 14 month after board approval). PETROGAS
was able to complete the targets stated in staff appraisal report (SAR) in time as scheduled, and
thus avoided any implementation delays in gas distribution network. In fact, later PETROGAS has
expanded the gas network to supply gas to 408000 residential consumers, 6000 commercial
consumers exceeding SAR targets by 70 percent.
8 -    The major delay (over 18 months) occurred in the implementation of SCADA Project. The delays
occurred first in the procurement process, where due to lack of clear responsive bids, the first
round of bidding was cancelled.
PETROGAS issued second round of bids with clarifications in the specifications, as were
observed in the first round. The SCADA contract was finalized in November. 1997 and is
expected to be completed by April 30, 1999. In order to complete SCADA Project, the Closing
Date of this Loan was extended to June 30, 1999.
Maior Factors Affecting the Proiect
9 -    There were no significant difficulties in implementation of the project. There were some delays in
the finalization of the contract for the procurement of gas meters, as some bidders had protested
against PETROGAS decision, which upheld by the World Bank and the final contract was signed
as decided by PETROGAS.
10 -  PETROGAS trained 65 persons overseas, in advanced technology. In addition 15 Egyptian staff
were trained abroad in SCADA Project.
11 -  These experts have contributed in training over 6000 staff in gas industry skills. The training
center is fully equipped with modem training aids. This has greatly contributed in developing
skills of Egyptians as well as other nationals of neighboring countries.
12 -  PETROGAS has greatly benefited from the contributions made by the World Bank staff and other
experts in improving its technical financed and management performance.
Proiect Sustainability
13-   With increased gas reserves and expansion of transmission network established in Egypt, the gas
supplies are assured for the sustainability of the project. The gas consumers in Greater Cairo area
would be increased by about 100 000 consumers per year for the next 5 years.
14-   With additional financial incentives provided by the government for commercially efficient
management of gas companies, the financial sustainability of the completed project as well as
future investments by PETROGAS is assumed and ratified by the Government in the current 5
years plan ending 2001/2002. PETROGAS management for natural gas would take steps, as
appropriate, to ensure its financial obligation and debt servicing, capital investments for expansion
and efficient management of ongoing activities.
Future Operations
As mentioned in paragraph above, PETROGAS would:
A - expand gas distribution network in Greater Cairo area.



Implementation Completion Report                                                       34
B - expand gas distribution network in Alexandria area and other areas allocated by the
Government.
C - PETROGAS would plan to achieve the government's objectives of maximizing gas
Utilization in Egypt in a commercially efficient manner.
Bank Performance
15-   PETROGAS has greatly benefited with the support provided by the bank staff throughout its
associated in gas distribution business. The transfer of technology achieved through close
interaction with the bank staff in technical, financial and managerial aspects is commendable.
Bo_rower Performance
16-   PETROGAS staff has been ex-posed to the modem gas technology, gas distribution, utilization,
marketing, gas pricing and other aspects through overseas training, participation in consultants
work, on the job training in the specialized skills and finally in strategic planning and management
through the experience gained cluring the implementation of this project.
17-   PETROGAS staff is now seconded or working with other newly established public/private sector
companies involved in gas distribution business in Egypt.
Assessment of Outcome
18-  PETROGAS considers that 100 percent of project objectives have been achieved.
PETROGAS has also contributed in expanding the knowledge about gas use to Egyptian cities, it
has contributed towards improving environmental has important towards safety consciousness in
public. The outcome is highly saiisfactory.
Achievements
PETROGAS has:
1-  contributed in expanding gas utilization in the country and has substituted liquefied petroleum gas
products significantly;
2-  contributed in reducing pollution in Cairo by providing clear fuel to public;
3-  developed skilled-trained staff to service gas industry in Egypt; and
4-  developed management and marketing skills in Egyptian Staff.
Key l.essons Learnt
1-  For procurement of specializecl contracts, e.g., gas meters, SCADA etc., greater review should be
made on the specifications prepared by the consultants.
2-  The consultants staff should work closely with PETROGAS in Cairo and not entirely in their head
office.
3-  World Bank's close supervision has greatly contributed in achieving the success. Close continuous
communication with bank staff to resolve outstanding issues has contributed in achieving good
results.



MAP SECTION






8  - -     IBRD 229
Thk .,p h. been pep by The WorldkBk ese
26 Km
k SBUDRAN                       I
RASI  .RUDEI              1 ARPORT
SINAI
October 
12'             Tie~~~~~-in
12KmOil
To Suez
91 6~~~~~~~~~~M~
I 0~~~~~~~~~~~
RaS Baker      t                                                 
190 KM          Facilities .   '  .. ..%.... 
s                                                              2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 Km
GULF
OF
SUEZ
Ras Baker                                                       PetrobIaI
16|  FaCiIilFeS                                                        D FetiBO$i ndX   /
:     P6nt +       1 
FEIRAN
To Suez
BelaYim
Facilifies
BELAYtM
.-.G.P
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPTr
GAS INVESTMENT PROJECT
TRANS GULF COMPONENT
AREA                                 Project:  Exisftng:ONL DPIENS
OF Se        SADI-ONLDPIENS
ARABIA                    -                OFFSHORE SUBMERGED PIPELINES
LIBYA             ARAB                                    FT
R E PU BLI C                                                  MEASURING AND CONTROL STATIONS
OP  EGYPT                                              *      COMPRESSION STATIONS
-ROADS
SUDAN                                                    BUILT-UP AREAS
APRIL 1991



