Report No. PID5896
Project Name                     Moldova-Rural Finance Project (+)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       MDPA35781
Borrower                         Government of Moldova
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Rural Finance Project Implementation Unit
Mr. Victor Chiriac (Project Director)
Tel:    373.2.221142
Fax:    373.2.223106
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           12/2/97
Projected Appraisal Date         11/26/97
Projected Board Date             1/9/98
Country and Sector Background
1.      Moldova is a small, densely settled country that relies heavily
on agriculture. The country produces a variety of agricultural
products including wine, fruits and horticulture products. Food and
agriculture contributed about 42t of GDP in 1995 and the sector
employs about half of the total labor force. Total agriculture
output contracted after independence and is expected to continue to
contract, although at a much reduced speed. However, a partial
recovery of agricultural exports can be observed in recent years.
The Government is committed to providing a supportive environment
for the emerging private farming sector with the view to developing
agriculture as the engine of sustainable growth of the economy.
These reforms are supported through the planned Second Structural
Adjustment Program (SAL II).
2.      Moldova was one of the first former Soviet Union (FSU)
countries to take decisive actions to stabilize the economy. In
agriculture, GOM introduced a liberal price regime in 1993 - 1995
and only provides limited direct subsidies to agriculture producers
and processors. Factors that have hampered the development of
agriculture have been Government interventions in the grain sector,
high taxation for private farming, and indirect subsidies for some
agricultural sub-sectors. This year, GOM has already taken
significant steps to liberalize the grain market, complete
privatization of agro-processing enterprises in the input supply and
grain marketing sector, and reduce the level of indirect
subsidization significantly.    The encouraging reforms has lead to
the approval of the Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SA II) by
the Bank's Board in September 97.
3.      Land reform and farm restructuring remains controversial in



Moldova, and limited progress has been achieved in this area. The
bulk of the land is still used by large-scale former kolkhozes and
sovkhozes but about 16t of the land is under full private
management. Nevertheless, the number of independent private farmers
(about 2-3 ha average) reached about 156,000 in mid-1997 and is
increasing rapidly. Private family farms consistently outperform
large-scale farms, which is increasingly recognized by GOM and by
the agro-industrial sector. Many of the large-scale farms are de
facto bankrupt because of debts, lack of capital investments, low
worker morale, and deterioration of assets. Simplified farm
restructuring and land privatization regulations, combined with
pressure created by the increased economic difficulty of the
unrestructured farms, has resulted in a new push for farm
restructuring to take place. GOM has committed itself to
restructure 150 farms in 1997 and 200 farms in 1998.
4.      Most of these new private farms that are leaving the kolchozes
and newly emerging rural enterprises can not obtain loans from the
commercial banks. The major reasons are that the typical loan size
are too small to cover the costs of a commercial banks using a
classical lending approach. In addition, most of these clients
cannot provide sufficient collateral to the banks when starting
their business because they often do not have sufficient assets. At
the same time, these new farms and rural enterprises have
considerable potential for growth and for income-generating
investments, they can provide sound business plans and propose
bankable investments. Relatively small loans (often between US$ 200
and 1000) enable farmers to buy good quality seeds, fertilizer and
machinery services which in turn raise the production and sale of
agricultural products significantly. Cooperative banking systems
like the Raiffeisen Bank in Germany, the Credit Unions in the United
States, or even the Banca Populare that existed before 1940 in
Moldova are well suited to provide these services to the rural
population based on mutual principles. The principal benefit of
such institutions is to lower the costs of financial intermediation
sufficiently to make small-scale lending financially profitable.
There is scope to re-introduce a similar system into the rural
economy of Moldova.
5.      The key objective of this project is to introduce a mechanism
that would overcome the two most important impediments to financing
the rural sector - high transaction costs due to small loan size and
lack of traditional collateral. By creating Savings and Credit
Associations, this project reduces transaction costs and creates a
substitute for traditional collateral. A Pilot Project to test this
concept started in March 1997 using grants from Soros Foundation and
the Dutch Government of US $190,000. This money was used to
establish 10 pilot Savings and Credit Associations in Moldova and to
make about 500 short-term seasonal loans (6-9 months) at real
positive interest rates (24%). Progress to date under the pilot
project shows that the social cohesion within the SCA is necessary
to form effective SCAs and ensure full loan repayment. The members
are current on all loan installments, and the accounting procedures
are well established.
-2-



Objectives
6.      The objective of the Project is to develop and test a
cooperative rural banking system that would efficiently provide
financial services to small private farmers and rural entrepreneurs.
In order to achieve these objectives, the Project would establish
Savings and Credit Associations and train their members with
assistance of the Moldova Microfinance Alliance (MMA), create a
regulatory body for SCAs, strengthen the Rural Finance Corporation
(RFC), and finance a rural credit line to SCAs.
Project Description (See 1/)
7.      Development of Savings and Credit Associations    (category:
institution-building). The project would provide technical
assistance and training to develop SCAs in the rural areas of
Moldova. The Rural Finance Project Implementation Unit (RFPIU),
which is under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance, will engage
NGOs acceptable to IDA to develop SCAs, train the board and members
of the SCA, and provide accounting services to the SCAs. The
Moldova Microfinance Alliance (MMA), a local non-governmental
organization (NGO) has the necessary skills to provide training to
SCAs. These SCAs would mobilize savings from and lend to their
members. The MMA would receive an initial grant for the first two
years of operations from the Soros Foundation, WWB, and possibly the
Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) to cover the costs
of the foreign technical assistance and part of the local operating
cost. The other part of the operating cost will be covered through
a small fee MMA charges the SCAs.
8.      Establishment of a regulatory body of the SCAs (category:
institution-building). The project will provide technical
assistance and training to the RFPIU to temporarily supervise and
regulate SCAs, to develop the framework for a permanent regulatory
body of SCAs, and to finance year-end audits of SCAs established
under the project. This regulatory body would monitor compliance of
SCAs with the prudential rules for SCAs, which have been agreed
between the Government and IDA during preparation. The design of
the regulatory structure is still under discussion and will be
further developed and tested during project implementation. Future
regulation is possible through either (a) a government regulatory
body for SCAs or through (b) a self-regulatory body created by the SCAs.
9.      Establishment of the Rural Finance Corporation (RFC)
(category: institution-building). The Project would provide
technical assistance and training to the RFC. This is a new
wholesale institution to channel a credit line to legally registered
SCAs. It will be owned by its member SCAs, registered as a
financial joint-stock company under Moldovan law, and licensed as a
non-bank financial institution. RFC will operate according to
agreed prudential rules and an agreed policy manual, specifying
RFC's lending policies.   If more than 10. of the credits from SCAs
to RFC are overdue by more than 60 days, the Bank may suspend the
loan. All SCAs borrowing from the RFC must contribute to the share
capital of RFC and become shareholders.
-3-



10.     Rural Credit Line for SCAs. The Project would provide a credit
line to RFC who in turn will extend loans exclusively to SCAs
operating in the rural areas. The SCAs will, in turn, onlend these
loans to their members. Most of these loans will be small (average
US$ 500-700) short-term loans (9 - 12 months) to finance investments
for productive purposes like seasonal agricultural inputs, spare
parts for equipment, small works, or other small investments. Only
SCAs which received training from the MMA, are fully current in
their debt service obligations to the RFC, and meet the SCA's
prudential rules, would qualify for a loan. For small loans, the
SCAs will rely mainly on a mutual guarantee of its members and for
larger and medium-term loans the SCAs will require the member-
borrowers to provide collateral. All members of the SCA jointly
guarantee repayment of the entire loan to the RFC. SCAs will be
responsible for evaluating loan applications from members combining
them into a single loan application and submitting it to RFC. The
RFC's loan assessment will be limited to reviewing the SCAs
financial soundness, but without evaluating individual loan applications.
Project Financing
11.     Total Project Costs are US $6.1 million , as shown in the table
below.
Project Cost Table
Component       Category     Cost Incl.       9 of       Bank         W of
Contingencies    Total     Financing    Bank-
(US$M)                  (US$M)    financing
Establishment   institution         0.8          14t         0          0t
of SCAs         building
Regulatory      institution         0.2          3t          0.2
Body of SCAs    building
Establishment   institution         0.2         3t           0.2
of the RFC      building
Rural Credit     credit             4.9          80          4.6         92t
Line for SCAs    line
Total      6.1         100t         5.0         100t
Summary Implementation Arrangements
12.       The overall direction and coordination of the agricultural
investment program (consisting of the First Agriculture Project, the
proposed Rural Finance Project, and the proposed Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project) is in the hands of the Project Preparation
Committee (PPC). The PPC is chaired by a Deputy Prime Minister,
includes representatives of different Ministries, and has been
functioning since mid 1996. Project identification and preparation
was managed by the RFPIU under the auspices of the Ministry of
- 4 -



Finance. The RFPIU was officially created in March 1997, and
coordinates all the RFP activities. During implementation, it will
be responsible for: (i) coordinating project activities, (ii)
managing monitoring & evaluation, procurement and reporting to IDA,
(iii) administering disbursements and oversee the collection of
funds advanced to the RFC; (iv) engaging NGOs to develop and train
SCAs, (v) temporarily supervising the SCAs created under the Project
until a regulatory body has been established. For the detailed
monitoring and evaluation arrangements, indicators, and
responsibilities, compare the Project Design Summary (Annex 1). The
staff of the RFPIU will consist of a Director, a regulatory officer,
and an administrative assistant
Sustainability
13.     The project is designed to ensure that over time the rural
lending by the participating commercial banks is placed on a self-
sustaining basis. The activities of the RFC will initially need to
be subsidized, but experience in other countries shows that with
increases in loan volumes over time, the RFC will also become self-
sustaining. The technical assistance components will ensure that
adequate domestic implementation capacity is built through the
improvement of Moldova's human resource skills in rural finance.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
14.     Whereas microfinance operations are one of the best tools to
increase the economic participation, income and assets of the bottom
50- of a countries economic active population, a new start-up
operation is difficult to design and risky to implement. Therefore
complexity of the project was reduced to only focus on the
development of sustainable financial institutions and an appropriate
legal and regulatory environment for these institutions. Experience
worldwide is available to define the actions needed to build a
sustainable microfinance system. Regarding the financial sector
policies, the Government and the NBM are encouraging structural
change in the financial system, by developing a law for SCAs and
setting up a regulatory structure that encourages the entry and
growth of SCAs.
15.     Key to successful support of the wholesale intermediary (RFC)
is strong leadership to establish and enforce high performance
standards for financial and operating performance; accountability,
autonomy and freedom from political interference, the capability to
mobilize funding to build the own sustainability of RFC; intimate
knowledge of and competence in assessing the retail institutions
(SCAs). These standards include excellent repayments, non-
subsidized interest rates that are high enough to finance and part
of the operating costs allowing for a limited subsidy to cover
operating losses over the first two years, low operating costs,
diversity in portfolio between agriculture and rural non-
agricultural microentrepreneurs, and an achievable plan to
capitalize RFC over time. Sound governance, reduction of political
influence, and accountability would be ensured through majority SCA
ownership and a stepwise capitalization of RFC. Likewise, RFC will
- 5 -



know the SCAs intimately and only wholesale loans to those SCAs that
meet similar agreed performance standards and will not attempt to
make direct loans to microentrepreneurs.
16.     International experience suggests that the development of SCAs
needs to be subsidized in the first years. In order to separate the
development function from financial service transactions, an NGO,
the Microfinance Development Center will provide these services on a
separate balance sheet with donor grant financing. The Development
Center would also provide training programs and information exchange
to SCAs and commercial banks in order to motivate the local banking
sector to lend to SCAs.
17.     The SCAs need to be in a position to mobilize financial
resources locally as a primary source for loan funs and reduce
dependence on external grant financing. Therefore, the
establishment of the legal and regulatory framework supported by the
project would allow SCAs to legally mobilize savings from their
members and would set appropriate prudential standards.
Poverty Category
18.     The Saving and Credit Group sub-component of the Project
focuses on providing small loans to small private farmers and rural
entrepreneurs. It directly targets the poor and disadvantaged
groups in the rural areas and would therefore directly contribute to
alleviating poverty. The ongoing poverty assessment, the social
assessment of the agriculture sector and similar studies to be
published in 1997 will provide detailed information on average
household income in the rural areas. However, it is widely assumed
that income in the rural areas is predominantly irregular, and
significantly below the national average. The Project therefore
addresses the most important need named by respondents in surveys -
access to small loans and other financial services to finance
investments or consumption needs. In addition, a baseline survey of
the socio-economic conditions facing small-scale farmers and
employees of large agricultural farms is underway to enable the
monitoring of farm incomes, demographics of the farming population,
and major constraints facing agriculture at the micro-level.
Environmental Aspects
19.     The Project would be classified as category "B" in the Bank's
environmental rating. The credit officers of RFC and the training
officers of the Microfinance Alliance will receive a training course
on environmental screening of loan applications. In addition, a
leaflet on the use of agricultural chemicals will be distributed to
the SCAs. Ex-post evaluation of the pilot project will include an
evaluation of the exact nature of the activities financed by the
credits. If necessary, additional environmental controls will be
built in. Pesticides categorized as: 1(a) (extremely hazardous) and
1(b) (very hazardous) under the WHO classification will not be
financed under the loan.
Program Objective Categories
-6-



20.     This Project falls into the Program Objective Category of
Private Sector Development.
1/   All costs shown in this section are without contingencies.
Contact Point            Florian Grohs, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-4319
Fax No.:         (202) 522-1164
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending January 9, 1998.
ANNEX 1.
Environmental Review
1.      There are no environmental impacts expected from the
institutional components.   The small loans provided under the rural
credit line to farmers would be aimed at increasing the agriculture
production of smallholder farms from their existing fields. No more
than 5t of the outstanding credits would be used to purchase
agricultural chemicals (fertilizers or pesticides). Investments in
non-agricultural activities are not expected to lead to any negative
environmental impacts.
2.      The proposed mitigation actions include the implementation of a
training course for the credit officers of the RFC, the training
officers of the MMA, and the staff of the SCAs on environmental
screening of loan applications, including pesticide hazard
classification. This training will allow the officials of the RFC
and the SCAs to screen and eliminate dangerous pesticides from loan
applications. Ex-post evaluation of the pilot project include an
evaluation of the exact nature of the activities financed by the
credits, and if it is necessary, to build in additional
environmental controls. Pesticides categorized as 1(a) and 1(b)
under the WHO classification will not be financed under the loan.
- 7 -



