Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23365
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-27122; PPFB-P3140; IDA-303 10)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
FOR THE
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
12/18/2001
EnvironmentaRy and SociaUy Sustainable Development
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective at Appraisal, November 26, 1997)
Currency Unit = MDL
MDL 4.67 = US$ I
US$ 1 = SDR 0.74
(Exchange Rate Effective at Closing, June 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = MDL
US$ 1 = MDL 12.80
US$ 1 = SDR 0.81
FISCAL YEAR
January I  to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOM         -   Government of Moldova
IDA         -   International Development Association
LIL         -  Learning and Innovation Loan
MAIB        -  Moldova Agroindbank
MDL         -  Moldovan Lei
MMA         -  Moldova Microfinance Alliance
NFSCA       -  National Federation of Savings and Credit Associations
RDC         -  Rural Development Center
RFC         -  Rural Finance Corporation
RFP         -  Rural Finance Project
RFPIU       -  Rural Finance Project Implementation Unit
RISP        -  Rural Investment and Services Project
SCA         -  Savings and Credit Association
SSB         -  State Supervisory Body
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:  Roger W. Grawe
Sector Director:  Kevin M. Cleaver
Task Team Leader:   Hoonae Kim



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOLDOVA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 I 1
6. Sustainability                                                                     13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    16
9. Partner Comments                                                                   17
10. Additional Information                                                           24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P035781                                      Project Name: RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Team Leader: Hoonae Kim                                  TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: RURAL FINANCE PROJECT                         L/C/TF Number: TF-27122;
PPFB-P3140;
IDA-30310
County/Department: MOLDOVA                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: AC - Agricultural Credit
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   06/14/1996                            Effective: 05/19/1998         05/19/1998
Appraisal:  11/26/1997                               MTR: 04/16/1999           04/16/1999
Approval:  01/13/1998                             Closing: 06/30/2000         06/30/2001
Borrower/lImplemnenting Agency: GOVT. OF MOLDOVA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes Linn                             Johannes Linn
Country Manager:     Suman Mehra                              Roger W. Grawe
Sector Manager:      Kevin Cleaver                            Kevin Cleaver
Team Leader at ICR:  Hoonae Kim                               Florian Grohs
ICR Primaiy Author:  Jacob Intrator (consultant)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the project was to develop and test a cooperative rural banking system that
would efficiently provide financial services to small, private farmers and rural entrepreneurs. In



order to achieve these objectives, the project was to establish Savings and Credit Associations
(SCA) and train their members with the assistance of the Moldova Microfinance Alliance (MMA),
create a regulatory body for SCAs, strengthen the Rural Finance Corporation (RFC), and finance
a rural credit line to SCAs.
The project originated and was designed at a time of accelerated land reform and farm
restructuring in Moldova with the breaking up of former collective farms and large numbers of
independent, private fanners emerging (with landholdings of about 2 - 3 ha average). Most of the
new, private farmers that were leaving the collective farms could not obtain loans from
commercial banks due to the small size of the loan, the lack of collateral and the high costs of
intermediation. Therefore, the principal objective of the project was to test a mechanism that
would overcome the major impediments to financing the rural sector - high transaction costs due
to small loan size and lack of traditional collateral. By creating SCAs in all parts of the country,
the project was to test a method of reducing transaction costs, create a substitute for traditional
collateral and mobilize savings from the rural population.
Appraisal of the project in September 1997 was preceded by a small pilot project, financed
initially by donor funds and subsequently from a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance. At
the time of appraisal, eleven SCAs created under the pilot project had already received financing,
and an additional twelve SCAs had been established and were considered ready and eligible for
financing. The experience gained from the pilot project greatly assisted and provided important
inputs to the final project design. The project, as designed, included all the components necessary
for the creation of an SCA system, including all legal requirements and the prudential rules for the
operation of the SCAs.
Because of the nature of the project, intended to test the institutional capacity of the SCAs, the
RFC and the regulatory body for SCAs, the project was processed as a Learning and Innovation
Loan (LIL) to be implemented during a two-year period, 1998 and 1999, and to be followed by a
larger project. The Rural Investment and Services Project (RISP) now under preparation, will
include a component for the further development and financing of the SCA system. The
experience gained and the lessons learned from the LIL will be taken into consideration in the
design of the SCA component.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Although the project objectives remained unchanged during implementation, important
modifications were made in the project design. By early 1998, RFC was already facing stiff
competition from commercial banks which had started lending their own resources to SCAs
without any special requirements concerning capitalization or risk funds.  Therefore, an
International Development Association (IDA) supervision and project launch mission agreed to
delete a mutual guarantee of SCA members, substantially reduce the capitalization requirement of
RFC by SCAs, and eliminate a provision to create a risk fund in the form of preference shares to
be subscribed by borrowing SCAs.
Original targets - As a LIL, the project was to be implemented in two and a half years with 153
SCAs to be created and financed during that period. It was assumed that about 10,000 SCA
-2 -



members would receive loans averaging around MDL 2,500 (US$ 500 equivalent), and for that
purpose the amount of the Credit Line was set at about US$ 5.0 million. During the
implementation, the domestic currency devalued by more than 100 percent, which led to the
substantially smaller average loan size of around US$ 200; however in local currency, it remained
relatively unchanged. This resulted in the LIL supporting more than double the number of SCA
members originally projected. In addition, one of the major commercial banks provided loans to
SCAs with their own funds. These factors led to extending the Credit closing date by one year
from June 2000 to June 2001. At closing, about 350 SCAs were operating and receiving
financing from RFC under the project, and from Moldova Agroindbank (MAIB) from its own
resources.
3.3 Original Components:
As mentioned above, the components of the Project were well linked to the objectives and
covered all the necessary elements required for the creation of the SCA system. They included
the following:
(a)   Development of SCAs through technical assistance and training to be provided by
an NGO acceptable to IDA. SCAs were expected to mobilize savings from, and
lend to, their members. A medium-term projection included in the PAD indicated
that about 350 SCAs were expected to operate at the end of five years from
inception of the first Project.
(b)   Establishment of a regulatory body of the SCAs.
(c)   Establishment of the Rural Finance Corporation. This new wholesale institution,
registered as a financial joint stock company and licensed as a non-bank financial
institution, owned by its member SCAs, was to channel a credit line provided
under the Project to legally registered SCAs.
(d)   Rural Credit Line for SCAs, to be provided to RFC for channeling loans
exclusively to SCAs operating in rural areas, with SCAs, in turn, onlending these
loans to their members.
3.4 Revised Components:
There were no revisions of the original Project components. Because of the availability of donor
funds for the technical assistance and institution building components, about US$ 150,000
equivalent that were allocated in the project for these activities were re-allocated and transferred
to the Credit Line.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was not subject to the QAG and QER process. However, the project design at
inception adequately covered financial, economic, social, institutional and other fiduciary aspects,
and was deemed to be satisfactory.
-3 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievenment of objective:
The project clearly and successfully demonstrated that SCAs can provide access to institutional
financing to small-scale farmers and rural entrepreneurs, mostly first time borrowers, and can
efficiently retail credit services with funds borrowed from financial institutions. The provision of
other financial services could not be tested sufficiently because of the slow progress in mobilizing
savings. Credit provided by the SCAs has afforded farmers the possibility of free choice to buy
farm inputs and other requirements on the open market, thus reducing their dependence on the
former collective structures.  The creation of SCAs, through its participatory approach,
demonstrated new ways of organizing small-scale farmers and rural entrepreneurs in privately
owned associations managed by their members, and developed a basis for the creation of farmers'
cooperatives or other types of organizations for the provision of services of common interest,
such as input supply, marketing and small agro-processing. The creation of such farmers'
organizations is being pursued under the proposed RISP which is currently being prepared.
4.2 Ottputs by components:
Target:     Creation of SCAs - About 130 SCAs were to beformed by end-1999.
Outcome:     This original target has been fully met. By end-1999, 179 SCAs had been
established (81 SCAs at end-1998). In light of the extension of the project implementation
period, as explained above, at closing, the number of functioning SCAs was about 350.
Supporting Document No. 12 provides additional information on the number of SCAs created
during project implementation and on the institutions involved in their creation.
Target:     PAD projections (for a two and a half year period of project implementation)
indicated that an estimated 10,000 smallprivatefarmers and rural entrepreneurs would gain
access tofinancial markets and receive working capital and medium term loans.
Outcome:    Because of the longer than projected project implementation period, PAD
projections were greatly surpassed. Starting in 1997, with 11 SCAs and total financing of about
MDL 1.0 million, by mid-2001, about 350 SCAs, with a total number of borrowing members
exceeding 30,000, had an outstanding loan balance from RFC and MAIB exceeding MDL 70.0
million. About MDL 52.0 million (US$ 4.3 million at prevailing exchange rates at the time of
withdrawal from the Credit account) of this amount were financed from the Credit Line of the
project and channeled by MOF to RFC for onlending to 200 SCAs with about 19,000 borrowing
members. PAD projections were based on the assumption that individual loan amounts would
range around US$ 500. Following the steep devaluation of the MDL in 1998, the average loan
size remained unchanged at about MDL 2,500 per individual SCA member, thus permitting RFC
to lend to a much larger number of SCAs and members than anticipated at appraisal.
At the end of 1999, a detailed survey was carried out by MMA of 152 SCAs with a total
membership of about 11,500. One of the findings of the survey was that 48 percent of the
members were women. At end-1998, the percentage of women in 84 SCAs was identical.
-4 -



Although not financed from project funds, the participation of MAIB, at its own initiative and
utilizing its own resources, in the financing of SCAs should be highlighted as a positive feature of
the project, demonstrating the availability of alternative sources, other than RFC, to finance the
SCA system. MAIB became an active participant from inception of the project and in 2001
financed 140 SCAs with a total amount of MDL 22.0 million.
In fact, in 1998, the first year of the project, another commercial bank provided loans to 17 SCAs
based on a guarantee arrangement with Austria's Raiffeisenbank and the Soros Open Society
Institute. Although portfolio performance was satisfactory, this commercial bank decided to
discontinue its participation in 1999.
It was envisaged that both working capital and medium-term lending for investments would be
made under the project. RFC started in the first year to test investment financing to SCAs and
made a small number of loans totaling less than US$ 20,000 equivalent. Recognizing that SCAs
still lacked the necessary capabilities for assessing investment loan proposals, and because of the
lack of the necessary capital base and unwillingness of members to expose the SCAs to the
inherent lending risks, RFC decided to discontinue medium term lending and concentrate only on
short term working capital loans. At closing, practically all loans made by RFC and MAIB were
short term, for a one-year period. The still outstanding balance of investment loans as of June
30, 2001 was about US$ 2,000 equivalent.
Under the proposed RISP, RFC will make the necessary changes to widen the scope of its
activities and introduce direct investment lending to farmer organizations and other private
beneficiaries that are not members of SCAs.
Target:     Introduction of a cost effective ruralfinancial system for micro loans.
Outcome:    With the increase in the volume of lending in the 2000/2001 season, RFC has
succeeded in reducing operational expenditures to below 5 percent of average loan portfolio.
During the whole period of project implementation, all lending by the financial institutions to
SCAs and by SCAs to their members was at highly positive interest rates, except for 1999 when
inflation surged from about 18 percent in 1998 to 43 percent, and legal agreements did not
provide for interest rate adjustments. RFC's lending rate to SCAs was 21.6 percent in 1998 and
later raised to 25 percent in 1999. SCAs added a margin of 4 to 6 percent per annum to this
lending rate for their loans to members.
Loan Repayment. Loans from RFC to SCAs are usually for one year and repayable in one
balloon payment due in the first quarter of the year. The majority of repayments was on time,
and some loans were repaid even before the agreed maturity date. On June 30, 2001, only three
subloans out of 200 had a total principal overdue for more than 60 days totaling about MDL
70,000 or US$ 5,500 equivalent. This is less than I percent of the RFC total outstanding loan
portfolio of MDL 50 million, which is well below the target of 10 percent mentioned in the PAD.
However, with the fast growth in the number of SCAs and their membership, there are emerging
signs of deterioration in loan repayment by members to SCAs. Overdue principal repayments has
- 5 -



increased to about MDL 1.0 million, or 3 percent of the total portfolio. This situation has alerted
SCA management, the National Federation of SCAs and the State Supervisory Body (SSB) to
take immediate remedial measures. The recent loan repayment problems faced by SCAs have
caused RFC to create in the first semester of 2001, a general provision for loan losses of about
US$ 100,000 equivalent.
A study to identify the causes for default is being finalized based on data as of December 31,
2000, and is likely to provide guidance on actions to be taken to ensure timely repayment of
loans. The preliminary findings of the study show: (a) a clear linkage between the age of an
association and the size of overdue amounts - the older an SCA, the more delinquency problems it
has; (b) SCAs that have between 50 and 200 members share about the same delinquency ratios;
however once the number surpasses 200, the risk of delinquencies grows significantly; and (c) the
finding under (b) is also reflected in the size of the loan amount to the SCA - the bigger the loan
to the SCA and the average loan amount per member, the higher the delinquency rate.
Target:     Mobilization of savings from the ruralpopulation.
Outcome:    In the original project design, the expectations that SCAs would be able to
mobilize savings from its members were very modest, as shown in the monitoring indicators for
the mid-term review "about 5 SCAs started savings mobilization." The project financing table
also did not envisage that part of the credit to be provided to SCA members would be financed
from savings mobilized by SCAs. In total, at project closing, savings amounted to MDL 0.6
million (US$ 47,000), or less than one percent of the total outstanding loan portfolio to all SCAs.
Studies on savings mobilization by SCAs, carried out by international consultants in 2000,
provided some guidelines for an appropriate savings mobilization strategy; results are still
negligible and it is unlikely that in the near future the SCA system would be in a position to
finance a reasonable portion of its lending operation from members' savings. It appears that the
absence of savings is due to the following: (a) members are small farmers and rural businesses
with very small amounts of disposable income that could be deposited in savings accounts in a
financial institution; (b) there was no need or incentive for RFC and other agencies involved in the
SCA system (NGOs and the Federation of SCAs) to actively promote mobilization of savings
because of the availability of funds for the SCA system from RFC and MAIB; and (c) the need for
RFC to compete with MAIB which did not impose any pre-conditions on SCAs to receive loans,
such as savings deposits or capitalization.
In hindsight, given the limited capacity of the SSB for SCAs, slower than anticipated savings
mobilization may have indeed prevented potential risks to depositors.
Target:     Establishment of a sustainable cooperative banking system similar to Credit
Unions, which would mobilize savings and finance investments in the rural areas.
Outcome:    The project has been successful in creating a functioning micro credit system,
comprised of about 350 SCAs, backed by financial institutions to provide financing to SCAs and
the other support structures necessary for the SCA system consisting of: (a) the State Supervisory
Body; (b) the National Federation of SCAs; and (c) the NGOs involved in the promotion and
- 6 -



creation of SCAs and the provision of technical assistance and training. However, as operating at
present, and in the absence of any significant savings mobilization, the SCA system has evolved
into a group lending operation, rather than a "Savings and Credit" system.
Target:     Establishment of a regulatory body for SCAs.
Outcome:     The State Supervisory Body (SSB) for SCAs was established in September 1998
as a separate unit in the Ministry of Finance, and is financed from the Government budget. Some
initial investments in equipment, etc. were provided under the project, and donors financed
expatriate technical assistance. According to the Government's decision when establishing the
SSB, its principal tasks were: (a) development and approval, within its competence, or normative
acts which regulate the establishment, process and operation of SCA activities; (b) issuing and
suspending licenses and ceasing the activity of SCAs; and (c) supervising and monitoring the
activities of SCAs.
During most of 1999, the SSB was engaged in establishing the procedures for its operations, the
accounting and reporting standards for SCAs, and training of staff. In addition, the SSB started"
to license SCAs and performed a small number of on-site inspections. After the initial "teething"
and staffing problems (there has been a large tumover of staff mainly due to the low salary
structure of the civil service), the performance of the SSB has greatly improved since 2000.
Financial reports are produced and analyzed in a timely manner, the number of on-site inspections
is increasing and supervision is now focusing its attention on the quality of loan portfolios,
delinquencies in loan repayment and the performance of elected SCA management. Because of
non-operation for one year, the licenses of two SCAs were cancelled and they were subsequently
liquidated. The SSB revoked the licenses of seven SCAs, due to their failure to take measures by
a set time to correct deficiencies detected by the SSB, and suspended the licenses of an additional
nine SCAs because of various infringements in compliance with existing regulations and
procedures. Quarterly reports, produced by the SSB on SCA operations and financial condition
and consolidated financial statements for all SCAs, as of June 30, 2001, can be found in
Supporting Documents Nos. 9-12 in Annex 7.
A recent amendment to the "Law on Licensing," enacted in Fall 2001, revoked the SSB's
authority to license SCAs and to take punitive measures such as suspension or cancellation of
licenses. The existence of a well functioning and impartial licensing and supervisory authority is
critical to the success of the SCA system. Under the proposed RISP, this issue will be addressed,
and IDA involvement in further SCA development would be subject to the reinstatement to the
SSB of its original functions and responsibilities.
Target:     RFC established and operating.
Outcome:    RFC, with a small staff of only 15, has been performing well, lending in 2001
about MDL 52 .0 million to 200 SCAs. Except for a small amount (some US$ 40,000) from
USAID for medium term loans to SCA members for land purchase, the RFP funds were the sole
source of financial resources for RFC for lending.
- 7 -



The project design provided for a US$ 2 million equivalent interest-free, subordinated loan for 35
years from the MOF to RFC, mainly to support institutional development and capacity building
for establishing the SCA system in the country. While such subsidy could be justified during the
initial development period, based on the profitability of RFC, it is unclear whether such subsidy
should continue in its current form. RFC's current lending margin of 5 percent fully covers all
administrative expenditures and provisions for loan losses.
On the other hand, the capitalization of RFC by SCAs as described in the PAD did not materialize
due to strong objections by SCAs at project inception. Their paid-in share capital in RFC is
extremely small, currently only about US$ 18,000 equivalent, or less than five percent of the
original projection. However, the RFC's income generated from the interest-free subordinated
loan generated significant additional equity, which in turn enabled RFC to meet a sizeable capital
adequacy requirement to expand its lending volume. As of June 30, 2001, the total accumulated
profit of RFC was MDL 5.3 million.
Financial Statements of RFC from 1998 to 2001 and Audited Financial Statements (Balance Sheet
and Profit and Loss Account) as of June 30, 2001 are listed as Supporting Documents Nos. 7 and
8 in Annex 7.
Target:     MMA has sufficient donorfinancing to carry out operations.
Outcome:    At project inception, Moldova Microfinance Alliance (MMA) was the only
non-governmental organization (NGO) to create SCAs. In 1999, an additional NGO - the Rural
Development Corporation (RDC) - was established to create SCAs, creating competition for the
MMA. Both NGOs, as support institutions for the SCA system, had sufficient donor financing
during project implementation, yet they continue to be dependent on donor financing for their
operations. As a LIL with a relatively short implementation period, the project did not envision
achieving any cost-recovery during the relatively short implementation period.
Target:     Farmers and rural entrepreneurs create SCAs and take mutual responsibility.
Outcome:    The willingness of the rural population to create SCAs has been demonstrated by
the number of SCAs operating. It should be noted, however, that loans from RFC to SCAs lack
the formal mutual guarantee of individual members of SCAs as was envisaged at appraisal. This
deviation from the original design was suggested by the SCAs, approved by an IDA supervision
mission shortly after the Board approval and did not require an amendment to the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA). SCAs are required to deposit in a bank, 6 percent equivalent of the
loan amount they borrow from RFC. This is the only collateral for loans made to SCAs, which is
inadequate to cover the total outstanding lending risks hence making RFC loans to SCAs almost
unsecured (see Section 6 on Sustainability).
According to the PAD, the guarantee was tested during the pilot project and was considered the
key to ensure high repayment (see page 13 of PAD). As the project files document, about 400
primary beneficiaries actively participated in the project design, and the lending policy, including
capitalization of RFC by SCA, was discussed and endorsed by 50 elected SCA representatives.
- 8 -



However, RFC was already facing stiff competition from commercial banks which had started
lending their own resources to SCAs without any special requirements concerning capitalization
or risk funds. As noted in para. 4.2, the SCA loan repayment record is impressive, without
mutual guarantees.
Table 1: SCAs financed by RFC under the Project - Principal Indicators - June 30, 2001
(MDL)
1. Number of SCAs financed                        200
2. Total number of members in SCAs                23,400
3. Number of borrowing members                    19,400
4. Total equity of SCAs                           10.5 million
5. Total loans to members- balance outstanding    58.9 million
6. Loans from RFC to SCA- balance outstanding     51.1 million
7. Average loan from RFC per member               2,700
8. Total overdue loans in SCAs-  principal        0.445 million
interest           0.483 million
9. Total savings accounts                         0.419 million
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Project Analysis
Loans made to SCAs or to their members were not analyzed during appraisal as the project was a
demand driven credit operation. But the project design established a limit for average loan size to
individual SCA member not to exceed 3 times the per capita GDP. In 2001, this would have been
about MDL 13,000 or about US$ 1,000. In reality, the average loan size was considerably
smaller at about MDL 2,700; equivalent to about US$ 200. Given the large number of
beneficiaries, the very small average loan size, the wide variety of uses of project funds and the
nature of the loans which were short-term, mostly for working capital, and repayable after 12
months, no farm models were created to test the viability of investments.
For the preparation of the ICR, SCA members were interviewed and asked to provide information
on the use of funds. They unanimously expressed their satisfaction and highlighted the positive
impact of loans provided through the SCA system on their economic activities and income.
Beneficiaries declared that they, as individual borrowers, could not have obtained credit from
other institutional sources and that borrowing from private lenders, if and when available, would
have been more costly.
It is estimated that about 80 percent of loan funds financed agricultural/livestock production,
including investments in small tools, implements, etc., and the remaining 20 percent financed other
-9-



economic activities such as trade, transportation and other small businesses in the rural areas.
Financial Analysis of Key Institutions
The PAD (Annex 2) provides projections on the financial condition of RFC and SCAs. In light of
the major changes in the assumptions with regard to capitalization of RFC and SCAs, the almost
complete absence of savings deposits, and other factors, actual results cannot be compared with
the projections in the PAD. However, a summary analysis for RFC and SCAs is described below,
and a more complete analysis can be found in Supporting Documents Nos. 8-12 of Annex 7.
RFC
Supporting Document No. 8 provides comparative financial statements of RFC. Total share
capital, as of June 30, 2001, was about US$ 18,000 equivalent (or US$ 50,000 when applying the
rate of exchange in effect at appraisal) compared to PAD projections of US$ 3.4 million. Still,
mainly because of the exceptional terms of financing by Government, with one-third of total
borrowings in an interest-free subordinated loan repayable over 35 years, RFC has been very
profitable; it generated net profits of about MDL 3.0 million in 2000. During the first six months
of 2001, RFC had a profit of about MDL 2 million, however, with the decision of creating a loan
loss provision of MDL 1.4 million in 2001, the actual net profit declined to MDL 600,000. This
is a worrisome sign that needs to be continuously monitored.
Analysis of Financial Status of SCAs
Until recently, except for the interest payable on loans, all support services provided to SCAs, e.g.
training and technical assistance, etc., were free of charge. The National Federation of SCAs now
charges a small fee to its members for accounting services by its regional accounting centers; and
MMA is planning to introduce a fee-based provision (on demand) for continuing technical
assistance.
Taking into account that SCAs have to employ, at least, one full or part-time accountant, and
additional staff once savings mobilization starts to develop, it is apparent that small SCAs with 50
or even 100 members, at the current lending margin of 4 to 6 percent, would not be in a position
to cover the cost of their administration and support services. The original project design did not
anticipate that SCAs would cover the full cost of all support services, such as accounting, training
and technical assistance. However, SCAs should be required to gradually pay for a portion of
support services. In parallel, service providers, i.e. NGOs and the Federation, should reduce their
reliance and dependence on donor funds and exercise tighter budgeting and cost controls to
improve financial efficiency.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development was one of the project components. One positive achievement of the
project is the creation of 350 of SCAs, a well-functioning RFC and the State Supervisory Body
for SCAs. Although not part of the project, a Federation of SCAs is also in place and is gradually
taking over important tasks, such as accounting services and training.
- 10-



The ICR assessment is that during the period of project implementation, the focus and emphasis
on quantity (number) of SCAs rather than on size (number of participating members) was correct.
However, after four years of "piloting and testing" and building on the experience gained, the
focus should now shift to consolidation, strengthening and internal growth of the existing SCA
system, rather than on the creation of new, small SCAs which would remain credit groups and not
develop into Savings and Credit Associations in the true sense of their name. Further, small SCAs
would not be sustainable once they are required to pay for services provided in regional
accounting centers, supervision by SSB and training by NGOs or the Federation.
The National Federation of Savings and Credit Associations
Although not included in the project design, the National Federation of Savings and Credit
Associations (NFSCA) was established in 1998, to represent the interests of SCAs before
Government, financial institutions and other agencies involved in the SCA system. Membership in
the Federation is voluntary, and at June 30, 2001, about 210 SCAs, or 60 percent of the licensed
SCAs, were members. The Federation participates in the development of the prudential rules,
accounting standards, internal regulations and procedures, legal documents, etc. and is involved in
the promotion of SCA creation. The Federation has established and operates regional accounting
centers which computerize and process financial reports received from the SCAs for use by the
SSB and the SCAs.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The steep devaluation of the domestic currency, soon after effectiveness and following the
financial crisis in the FSU in 1998, caused the extension of the project implementation period.
The LIL which was intended to test the creation of SCAs and be a precursor for a larger project,
in fact already resulted in a much larger project in tenns of number of SCAs created and volume
of lending. In the absence of collateral and mutual guarantee of members of SCAs, the decision
not to link the average loan size per member to the dollar equivalent was correct.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Rural Finance Project Implementation Unit (RFPIU) was given full authority over project
management and implementation, and the Government, being a minority shareholder of RFC, did
not influence or exercise any controls over its operations. Although intentions were good, and a
grace period or interest holiday for the initial start-up period of two to three years could have
been justified, the provision of the subordinated and interest free loan to RFC at IDA terms and
repayable over 35 years provides an implicit, continuous subsidy to RFC. The Goverunent
should reexamine the justification and need for continuation of this subsidy.
In the absence of another alternative, such as a National Bank, the State Supervisory Body (SSB)
was established as a unit in the Ministry of Finance to supervise, regulate, license and de-license
SCAs. Being subject to a civil service salary structure, there has been frequent staff turn-over
which has caused serious difficulties in hiring and retaining qualified employees. This issue is
- 1 1 -



being addressed during preparation of the proposed RISP.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
With the assistance of a large number of short-term consultants in various fields of expertise, both
the RFPIU and the RFC carried out their functions in a very satisfactory and efficient manner.
Relations between MMA RFC, and the RFPIU appear to have been strained at times, which
could have been the reason for RFC to establish the Rural Development Center (RDC) to carry
out functions similar to those of MMA. The large amount of donor financing for MMA was not
coordinated or supervised by RFPIU.
During project appraisal, the Moldova Agroindbank (MAIB) expressed its interest and was
prepared to participate in the project. The PAD states in para D. 1 that "due to the urgency of
making the loans available before the spring planting season, and the necessity to simplify the
project structure, it was decided to delay processing of this request until 1999." One major bank
reapplied in 1998. Unfortunately, the request, although advised favorably by the IDA supervision
mission, was not granted. The RFPIU may have had an excessive interest to protect RFC
regarding the use of IDA funds. In the end, the MAIB lent its own funds to SCAs, but with a
credit guarantee scheme supported by other donors. Another commercial bank, Fincom Bank,
also lent to SCAs during the pilot stage of the project, but discontinued shortly thereafter.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Project cost estimates were based on a 2.5 year LIL leading to the creation of 130 SCAs. The
result at closing is a 3.5 year project with 350 SCAs created, two NGOs engaged in creation and
training of SCAs, and other functioning support services including the Federation of SCAs and
the State Supervisory Body. As discussed earlier in this report, beneficiary participation (in the
share capital of RFC) did not materialize. This change was introduced with the agreement of the
IDA supervision mission shortly after effectiveness and did not require an amendment to the
DCA. Because of the availability of donor funds for institution building and technical assistance,
a re-allocation of about US$ 150,000 equivalent was made, which increased the allocation of
funds to the credit line component.
Of the IDA Credit of about US$ 4.9 million equivalent to SDR 3.7 million, US$ 4.80 million
equivalent was utilized for the credit line for onlending to SCAs through RFC, and the balance of
US$ 100,000 was used for institution building, technical assistance and operating expenditures of
RFPIU.
PAD projections assumed donor co-financing of US$ 0.4 million for the two and a half year
period. The fact that the project was a LIL, and targeted to support the poor rural population
(mostly small-scale, private farmers emerging from the liquidation of the collective farms and the
distribution of land) attracted a large number of donors. Grant financing, over the period of
project implementation, amounted to about US$ 1.5 million, covering the operational
expenditures of NGOs engaged in the creation of SCAs, including necessary investments in office
facilities, transport, consultant services for the NGOs, RFPIU, RFC and SSB, and some activities
of the Federation related to the establishment of regional accounting centers for SCA. US$
- 12-



80,000 equivalent of donor grants formed part of the equity of RFC.
The Government's contribution to the project financing was about US$ 0.2 million, covering in
part remuneration of RFC and RFPIU staff, and tax exemptions of goods purchased with project
funds.
The project financing table in the PAD indicates that US$ 0.7 million would be the beneficiaries'
contribution towards Project cost. There is no further indication or description in the PAD as to
which component of the project would be partially financed by beneficiaries. It is likely that part
of the above amount was projected to cover the capitalization of RFC by SCA, which would have
come from beneficiaries' contribution to the share capital of SCA. Because of the subsequent
modification in the project design described in para 3.2 above, beneficiaries' contribution did not
materialize.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The project is likely to be sustainable. The project has established the foundations for a
sustainable SCA system with the necessary legal framework and support structures in place.
These include NGOs experienced in the promotion, creation and training of SCAs, a Federation of
SCAs and a supervisory body now functioning in a satisfactory manner. RFC is expanding its
range of activities and at least one commercial bank is interested in continuing to serve the SCA
system.
Interest rates of financial institutions are set at levels which are positive in real terms and make
lending profitable. However, until recently, all other services provided to SCAs, including
training, technical assistance and supervision were provided free of charge. Gradually, these
services will have to become fee-based, but small SCAs will not be in a position to cover their
operating expenditures, loan loss provisions and fees unless the number of members and volume
of operations increase significantly.
The LIL has provided valuable experience in the creation of an SCA system with all necessary
support structures. To ensure sustainability and growth of the system the following need to be
addressed:
(a) Savings mobilization. After almost five years of operation, greater emphasis has to be
placed on mobilization of savings to reduce the dependence on borrowing from financial
institutions.
(b) Capitalization of RFC and SCAs. Neither RFC nor SCAs followed the design and
measures envisioned at appraisal to establish a sound capital base. Capitalization of RFC
and SCAs needs to be revisited with a view to diversify and expand the capital bases.
(c) Donor coordination. The project has benefited from exceptionally large donor support.
Reliance on grant funding for the system should decrease, and measures should be taken
- 13 -



to ensure maximum cost effectiveness of grant funds through better donor coordination
and TA implementation.
(d) Training coordination. Related to para. (c) above, training activities for SCA elected
officials, accountants and members of supervisory committees need to be better
coordinated with the different service providers, with the objective of creating one central
training center for the whole SCA system.
(e) Supervisory capacity. The expected growth in the number of SCAs and their membership,
the indispensable increase in savings accounts and the likely deterioration in loan
repayment performance, warrant further strengthening of the SSB, to permit, inter alia, on
site inspections of SCAs at regular intervals.
(f) Amendment of Regulations regarding SSB. In addition to measures to be taken, as
described in para 4.2 in connection with SSB, the present regulations, which provided the
basis for the creation of the SSB, should be amended to give wider powers to the Head of
the SSB, similar to those accorded to the Registrar of Cooperatives based on cooperative
laws in western countries.
(g) Lending risk mitigation. In the absence of the mutual guarantee, other measures to
mitigate the lending risks of financial institutions and of SCAs need to be explored and put
into effect.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project was a LIL designed to be followed by a regular operation after achieving concrete
results and providing lessons learned as discussed in Section 8 of this report. Under the proposed
Rural Investment and Services Project (RISP), a component to support the SCA system is being
designed which will provide, in addition to loan funds, substantial institutional and human capacity
building support. In addition, a PPF advance under the RISP is currently supporting the provision
of technical assistance designed to strengthen the institutions involved in the SCA system. In
order for the SCA system to be sustainable, there has to be a balance between creating new SCAs
and providing them with additional loans versus strengthening the existing SCAs while gradually
increasing the membership and portfolio size. Particular attention will be placed on strengthening
the supervisory and regulatory capacity of SCAs and improving the sustainability of the RFC,
while reducing subsidies provided under the LIL operation. Technical assistance will address
some of critical gaps remaining in the system as discussed in this report.
During the transition period until RISP becomes effective, the SCAs will continue to be
strengthened with donor support. DFID, CNFA and GTZ are already providing technical
assistance outside of the project domain to key institutions involved; namely the RFC, SCAs, the
SSB, and the National Federation of SCAs. Donor interest in providing institutional support
remains strong, and several are likely to become co-financiers under the RISP.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
- 14 -



7.1 Lending:
The main elements of the project design were relatively simple and took account of lessons
learned from the pilot project started during preparation. Under the pilot project supported by a
PPF advance, not only the creation, but also actual lending (to 11 SCAs), was tested, which in
turn facilitated fine tuning during appraisal of the project.  Although fifteen months elapsed
between identification and appraisal of the project, the fact that during preparation the pilot
project was implemented has to be taken into consideration.
The arguments in the PAD regarding alternatives that had been considered, and the decision to
create RFC to channel project funds to SCAs rather than through one or more commercial banks,
could have been stronger. In retrospect, it would have been advisable to explore this matter
further at appraisal. Project implementation demonstrated the commercial banks' interest and
capabilities to provide financing to the SCA system.
Unfortunately, the loss of a number of basic docunents and other correspondence hampered a
more detailed analysis of the evolution of the project, and an assessment of performance of
participating agencies during the initial phase of implementation.
7.2 Supervision:
Ten supervision missions, including a mid-term review in April 1999, were undertaken during
project implementation over the period, March 1998 to June 2001. The fact that members of the
task team also supervised another project in Moldova facilitated the more frequent country visits
and was more cost efficient. In general, the composition in terms of skills and expertise of the of
the IDA missions allowed for effective supervision and identification of issues to be addressed to
ensure the successful outcome of the project. Among the issues identified by the missions
throughout implementation were:
(a) The inability of the SCAs to extend medium-term loans
(b) The lack of mobilization of funds for capital and savings among SCA members
(c) The need to reduce operational (administrative) expenditures for RFC
(d) RFC's over-extended role as a lender to, and creator of, SCAs
(e) RFC's accounting and reporting system
(f) Inadequate risk funds for SCAs
(g) Proposals to link project financing to savings
(h) Strengthening the SSB, reducing staff turnover, improving systems and procedures
The supervision teams continually assessed the operational and financial performance of SCAs
and RFC.   In addition, the missions made special efforts to strengthen coordination and
cooperation between the various agencies involved in project implementation. The intensive
supervision effort contributed to the successful performance and outcome of the project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, IDA's performance is rated as satisfactory on project design, appraisal and during
implementation.
- 15-



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
According to information in the PAD, the project was prepared by RFPIU and MMA. The
RFPIU together with MMA, and supported by expatriate consultants with experience in
micro-lending and formation of SCAs, were responsible for the implementation of the pilot
project and for the creation of the legal framework for an SCA system, and carried out these
activities in a very satisfactory manner.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government delegated responsibility for implementation of the project to RFPIU, which
generally performed well. RFPIU at times appeared to be overly protective of RFC, which
possibly could have resulted in exclusion of commercial banks from participation in the project.
RFPIU also declined to negotiate any changes in the conditions of the subordinated loan to RFC
which were suggested by supervision missions in order to improve the terms for the Government
and reduce its losses on foreign exchange differences. Although the mission's recommendations
were detailed in aide-memoires and discussed at the end of each supervision mission, the
Government did not take active positions on several outstanding issues, including with regards to
the subordinated loan.
As mentioned earlier in the report, the Government has recently revoked the principal function of
the SSB - the licensing of SCAs. It is expected that appropriate action will be taken to amend the
Law on Licensing and restore to SSB its original functions and responsibilities.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of RFPIU has already been described in the preceding paragraph.
RFC as the principal agency responsible for implementation of the credit line under the project
performed well. Appraisal, supervision and loan monitoring of its borrowers was generally
carried out in a satisfactory manner. Record-keeping was satisfactory, accounts and management
information were kept in a timely manner, and audits were prepared and submitted on time and
according to IDA requirements. RFC succeeded to gradually reduce operational expenditures to
less than 5 percent by the project closing date.
The SSB, a new institution created in 1998, with the dual functions of licensing authority and
supervising body for the SCAs, has made significant progress in building and training the
necessary human capital, and establishing the operational procedures for effectively supervising
the operations of the SCA system. Although much still needs to be done to strengthen
supervision, based on the demonstrated results during the final year before project closing, its
overall performance is rated satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower has been satisfactory. It is surprising that in light of the
difficult situation in the rural areas, and the agricultural sector in particular, the project succeeded
- 16 -



in a relatively short time, to create 350 functioning SCAs which continue to provide basic credit
services to some 30,000 small-scale, emerging private farmers and rural entrepreneurs. The
commitment of the Borrower for further development of the SCA system remains strong.
8. Lessons Learned
The generally successful project outcome provides valuable lessons to draw upon when
continuing to support the development of the SCA system or preparing similar projects in the
future.
Savings Mobilization. Greater emphasis has to be placed on the intemal mobilization of savings.
Any future financing of SCAs by financial institutions should be linked to matching funds
provided from SCAs' mobilized resources.
Participation of Commercial Banks. In future projects to support the SCA system, it is
preferable to have more than one financial intermediary. Interested commercial banks that meet
the agreed eligibility criteria should be permitted to participate in the project.
Share Capital of RFC and SCA. For institutions like RFC and SCAs, establishing a sound
capital base should be a priority. Before expanding lending, capitalization of RFC and actions to
mitigate the lending risks of RFC and the SCAs need to be taken.
Expanding Lending Norms. Loan limits per SCA and per member should be based on ability of
SCAs to mitigate loan risks and should not be increased until satisfactory solutions to mitigate the
risks are in place.
Implementation Coordination. Many agencies have been involved in supporting the SCA
system. Better coordination and cooperation between RFPIU, RFC and NGOs engaged in the
creation of SCAs could have contributed to more effective project implementation and lower
costs.
Donor Coordination. The abundance of donor funds, from a large number of different sources
with different objectives, has undoubtedly led to higher operational costs and weaker budgeting
and costs controls. To ensure sustainability and reduce reliance on donor funds, stronger
coordination and cooperation between all participating agencies with clearly defined roles and
responsibilities to prevent overlapping and duplication need to be assured.
Training. Training activities for SCA elected officials, accountants and the supervisory body is
essential for the sustainability of the system, but they need to be coordinated better with different
service providers. To increase effectiveness and cost efficiency, establishing one training center
for the whole SCA system might be a preferred option.
Introduction of Service Fees. While justifiable for the inception period, free training and free
post-creation support services cannot be sustained indefinitely. After a certain period following
establishment and licensing, SCAs should be required to pay an annual fee for the services of the
- 17-



SSB. In addition, continued technical assistance provided to SCAs should be fee-based. A
portion of these fees payable to service providers could come from the lending margin of
participating financial institutions, as was envisaged at appraisal of the project.
Strengthening of the SSB. Supervision and regulation capacity of the State Supervisory Body
(SSB) of SCAs is critical for the sustainability of the SCA system. Furthermore, the present
decree and regulations need be modified to give the SSB Supervisor wider powers similar to
those of the Registrar of Cooperatives in the laws on cooperatives of western countries. The
rapid growth in the number of SCAs during the last two years, the likely increase in members'
savings accounts and the apparent deterioration in repayment performance makes further
strengthening of the SSB imperative.
Financing of RFC. When a subsidy provision is provided in the project for a financial
intermediary, there should be a clear sunset clause with a specific financial target for the financial
institution to adhere by and phase out the subsidy. Although intentions were good, the provision
of an interest free subordinated loan to RFC lacked justification. This loan resulted in an implicit
continuous subsidy to RFC, an undue advantage when competing with other financial institutions,
and unearned benefits to its shareholders. In the future, there may be sound reasons to provide
additional subordinated loans to RFC to facilitate raising of funds on the market; however, such
loans should be at customary lending terms in respect of repayment periods and interest.
Development Priorities. There needs to be a balance between expanding the number of new
SCAs and strengthening the existing ones. Although the project was successful in the relatively
fast creation of about 350 SCAs, many of them have a very small number of members and are not
likely to be sustainable. Priority should now be given to strengthening and consolidating the
existing SCA system. Rather than establishing new, small SCAs, emphasis should be placed on
increasing the membership in existing SCAs, or possible mergers of smaller SCAs. In connection
with the above recommendation, a change in the law on SCAs would be required to permit a SCA
to expand its area of operation and serve more than one village.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1.    Background
In 1997, privatization in agriculture led to the disappearance of the majority of collective farms.
The newly emerged private farmers and rural entrepreneurs represented the large majority of the
rural population. Losing their jobs in collective farms and receiving land shares in private property
caused the need to access financial services to operate rural businesses. Small loans were needed
to process land, operate the farms and implement other small rural initiatives. The existing
financial sector was not ready to meet the requirements of these new rural clients who were cut
off from the possibility of depositing savings and receiving loans. Reasons for that were too small
loan sizes requested by farmers, insufficient to cover the costs of commercial banks, high interest
rates, inflexible loan repayment schemes, heavy bureaucratic procedures and high collateral
requirements.



In order to address these issues, the Government of Moldova and the World Bank designed a
project aimed at establishing a new cooperative financial system, which would belong to the final
beneficiaries and provide services to them, based on principles of mutual assistance.
This report reflects the progress of the Rural Finance Project (the Project) in the Republic of
Moldova during the preparation and implementation period of 1997 - 2001.
The Project is very important because it ensures access to lending resources for the poorest social
layer - small-scale farmers, and, by attracting collective savings from SCAs' members, it includes
in the legal economic circuit population's savings.
2.    Project Structure and implementation of components.
2.1.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
Project identification and preparation was managed by the Agency for Implementation of the
Rural Finance Project (RFPIU). RFPIU was officially created according to the decision of the
GOM of March 28, 1997, under the auspices of the MOF and was later (September, 1999)
reorganized and taken over by the Consolidated Agricultural Projects Management Unit
(CAPMU).
During implementation RFPIU/CAPMU was responsible for: (i) coordinating all project activities;
(ii) monitoring and evaluation, procurement and reporting to IDA; (iii) administering
disbursements of funds and overseeing the mobilization of funds for RFC; (iv) engaging NGOs to
develop and train SCAs; (v) development of legal framework and temporarily supervising of
SCAs activity before permanent frameworks are established, (vi) keeps records of the way the
resources are used, as well as ensures that independent auditors audit the project.
2.2.  Project structure
The original design of the project included four components. These were:
* Development of savings and credit associations of citizens;
* Establishment of the legal framework and creation of the State Supervisory Body for
SCAs;
* Establishment of the Rural Finance Corporation;
* Rural credit line for SCAs.
2.3.  Development of Savings and Credit Associations (category: institution-building).
Under this component the Project was intended to provide technical assistance and training to
develop SCAs in the rural areas of the Republic of Moldova. It was expected that by the end of
the project about 130 SCAs with about 8400 members will be created and receive loans through
the project. About 350 SCAs were expected to operate over 5 years from the beginning of the
project. At present there are 366 operational SCAs.
- 19 -



Development of SCAs was mainly carried out by two local NGOs - MMA and RDC. Only a small
number of SCAs was created by FIDES during the pilot project in 1997 and early 1998, and with
the assistance of MAIB. Self-created SCAs in villages where development NGOs could not meet
the request. The table below reflects SCAs development dynamics during the project.
MMA and RDC were the two NGOs accepted by IDA for SCAs establishment. MMA was
financially supported by grants from Soros Open Society Institute, Soros Foundation Moldova,
WWB and fees negotiated with Fincombank and Moldova Agroindbank in the amount equal to
2% margin to the interest rate for the services rendered, such as attracting SCAs as clients and
monitoring the loans granted to SCAs by the bank. Agroindbank accepted MMA services, the
main reason being that MMA and their principal donor, Soros Open Society Institute, offered a
financial guarantee to Agroindbank for credits granted to SCAs.
RDC as a RFC affiliate was established in early 1999 in order to accelerate the pace of SCAs
creation. Donor funding from CNFA and UK DFID financially supported RDC.
Mobilization of savings was not intensive mostly due to a difficult economic situation and mistrust
of the rural population, but is progressing gradually, the total amount of savings being 0.6 million
Lei as of June 30, 2001.
In December 1998, 46 SCAs formed the National Federation of SCAs (NFSCA), charged with
representation and training functions. By the end of the project, those 220 member SCAs are
served by 9 regional centers of the Federation, which are financially supported by membership
fees and donor financing from CORDAID (Netherlands), Soros foundation Moldova and other
donors.
2.4. Establishment of the Legal Framework and Creation of the State Supervisory Body
for SCAs.
Under this component the project was planned to provide technical assistance and training to the
RFPIU to temporarily supervise and regulate SCAs, and to develop the permanent legal
framework for the'SCAs and their regulatory body.
The draft Law on SCAs was developed during 1997 and approved by the Parliament in early
1998. The legal framework for SSB, consisting of its intemal regulations, licensing regulations
and financial prudential rules for SCAs were developed and approved by GoM decision in
September 1998. At the same time, all necessary bylaws (including Statutes) for SCAs were
developed. A specialized accounting system, developed during 1998, was approved in 1999 by
the Ministry of Finance.
SSB was set up in September 1998 with necessary equipment and staff. SCAs monitoring and
supervision was performed using a computer database developed to include information of
financial reports presented by SCAs and calculating performance indicators (CAMEL-RM
system). In 2000-2001, the database has been gradually replaced by specially developed software
- 20 -



for consolidation of financial reports (including analysis of FPR observance, CAMEL-RM and
PEARLS rating systems), installed at NFSCA regional centers and the SSB office. At the same
time, SCAs accounting software was developed, producing final financial reports for presentation
to SSB through NF of SCAs.
Under this component, PHRD funding was used for technical assistance in preparation of the legal
framework. SSB operational activity is financially supported by the State budget.
2.5.  Establishment of Rural Finance Corporation (RFC) (category: institution-building)
This component included technical assistance to the creation of a new wholesale financial
institution to channel the credit line to SCAs, majority owned by the latter, and training of its staff
in the initial stages of operation. The component was necessary due to the unwillingness of
commercial banks to lend to new type of clients.
RFC capitalization was described in the PAD in the form of contributions from SCAs in the
amount of 5% of the Loans outstanding from RFC as well as through capitalization of profits,
also the GoM provided RFC quasi-equity in the form of 30 years subsidized interest loan of USD
2,000,000 from the IDA 303 1 -MD credit line.
RFC was established as a joint stock company in November 1997. The Law on Joint-Stock
Companies and the Law on Entrepreneurship and Enterprises govern its activity. Because RFC is
a non-bank institution, it is not governed by the Law on Financial Institutions and is not being
supervised by the National Bank. RFC undertakes the full commercial risk of the loans provided
to SCAs and represents competition to local commercial banks, lending to the same clients. Thus,
since its creation, RFC serves as a quick-starter for the involvement of local commercial banks in
lending to SCAs and the development of new financial products in rural areas. At the same time,
RFC is a stable source of funding in case commercial banks abandon this sector. Below there are
figures showing the structure and growth of RFC capital.
Originally RFC was founded by 9 SCAs functioning in Moldova and the GoM. Since 1997 the
number of RFC shareholders increased from 10 to 176, as a result of 3 additional issues of shares.
The Government did not buy shares from additional share issues, and its initial 20% share
diminished to 1.92%, while the total share of SCAs in RFC capital achieved 98.08%. Every SCA
willing to borrow from RFC is required to contribute to its share capital. The initial requirement
set at 5% of the requested loan volume represented too heavy a burden for newly created SCAs.
This is why this requirement was changed to 200 lei (4 shares) and then to 50 lei (1 share), all
additional participation being made at each SCA's own decision.One SCA cannot own more than
5% of RFC voting shares. Amounts exceeding 5% are invested by SCAs in preferred shares,
without voting rights.
In order to raise more share capital, in 1998 RFC distributed promotional dividends of 50%.
Further, in 1999 dividends were not distributed at all, and in 2000 they were declared at 18.6%
rate, equal to the real Retum on Equity rate in this year. All remaining profit has been allocated to
RFC reserves to be used for lending and other purposes defined in the Statutes.
- 21 -



RFC cost of operation (net operating expenses/annual average loans outstanding) during the
project was continuously reducing and approaching the 5% level, mostly due to the increase of
loan portfolio.
RFC accounts are audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the World Bank and
Government of the Republic of Moldova. In year 2000 and 2001, the Audit Report for 1999 and
2000 accounts was prepared by the intemational auditing company "Delloitte & Touche" Ltd.,
and submitted to the World Bank and the Ministry of Finance on time, as required for supervision.
Subsidies received by RFC during the project cycle amount to $1.8 million, and include a PHRD
grant, a Dutch Government grant, a Grant from the CNFA, and allocations from the Government
of Moldova.
2.6.  Rural Credit Line for SCAs
The Project foresees a credit line to SCAs channeled through RFC. Loans are extended
exclusively to SCAs operating in the rural areas. SCAs, in tum, on-lend these funds to their
members. Only legally registered SCAs, trained by MMA, RFC or any other acceptable NGO,
were eligible to receive loans from this credit line. The credit line was planned and provided to
RFC by the GoM in national currency (lei), at an interest rate correlated with market interest rates
and with GoM bearing the foreign exchange risk (lei/$US).
The main purpose of this credit line was to provide short-term agricultural and rural business
working capital loans without formal collateral requirements, at market interest rates. Under this
component two main financial products were offered to SCAs:
1. Short term working capital loans. Repayment of principal in up to 12 months, payment of
interest by SCA members on a quarterly basis, payment of interest to RFC in 2 installments
(December 20 of the current year for the accrued part and the rest at maturity). The interest
for such loans is currently 20% rate, variable.
2. Long term loans. Repayment of principal in 3 years (36 months), payment of interest by
SCA members semiannually, payment of interest to RFC semiannually, 24% interest rate,
fixed. Only a limited number of such loans were provided to SCAs in 1998, stopped due to
inflationary evolutions in 1999.
IDA loan funds, in the initial amount of $4.6 million, were increased to $4.8 million due to
reallocation from TA components of the Credit. The Government provides loan funds to RFC in
national currency, bearing the foreign exchange risk (US$/leu). By June 30, 2001 RFC had fully
withdrawn the credit line, in the amount of 59.44 mln lei (4.8 mln USD).
Out of 364 SCAs existing by June 30, 2001, RFC had lent to 200 of them, which represent
together over 20,000 members. RFC's market share constitutes 75% from the total loan volume
provided to SCAs.
- 22 -



RFC started lending in 1998 with a 21.6% interest rate. After higher inflation performance in
1999-2000, the interest increased to 24%, and then 28% and 30%. In 2001 the interest rate is
20% per annum and variable for its short term loans. The rate is set semi-annually, calculated
based on the reference rate charged by the GoM for loan funds in lei, plus a margin to cover
RFC's operational costs. The new rate applies to all short term loans outstanding at that date, as
well as to new contracts.
Reimbursement of loans provided since 1998 is 100%, with the exception of 2001, when an
amount of 71,971 lei (3 loans) or 0.14% of the total loan portfolio has been overdue for a period
more than 60 days, being gradually recovered through lawsuits initiated by RFC against these
SCAs in courts. In 2001 RFC refused to provide loans to 10 SCAs, due to their unsatisfactory
performance.
3.    Main Difficulties and Applicable Solutions
*     The financial crisis that affected the Republic of Moldova starting with September 1998
still lasted during 2000, but its negative influence started to decline. Principles worked out to deal
with the declining environment were: (i) adjustment of the costs of funds for RFC to the level of
projected inflation rate; (ii) decrease of maturity terms to one year for the loans granted by RFC
to SCAs; (iii) suspension of RFC activity of providing mid-term loans; (iv) maintenance of the
short-term loan ceiling for SCA members, which amounts to 2500 MDL, equal to about US $220
since January 01, 2000, compared to US $500 in February 1998, when the project started. Also,
the strong policy of rapid capitalization of SCAs was continued. Presently, the total owner's
equity of the whole SCA network amounts 15.3 million lei.
*     Slow progress in creation of SCAs by MMA. The negotiations between CAPMU and
MMA in order to ensure the MMA's activity within the Rural Finance Project seemed to be
unsuccessful. In 1999 RFC set up the Rural Development Center NGO to perform functions
similar to MMA's.
*     The issue of RFC operational costs was very acute in 1998-1999, but was solved in 2000.
RFC is approaching 5% of portfolio level of operational expenditures set by supervision missions
recommendations.
*     The necessity to increase efficiency of the SSB's activity. SSB requires assistance for staff
training and to work out the regulations and techniques for performance of supervision of SCAs.
For this purpose, an 18-month program was developed by DFID and WOCCU. But the problem
still remains of providing the necessary assistance with funds to SSB, as the allocated funds from
the state budget are definitely insufficient.
*     The mobilization of savings of SCA members as term deposits and demand deposits was
not effective neither in 1999 nor in 2000 because of the following reasons: (i) lack of confidence
among the population in the banking system; (ii) acute economic and financial crisis; (iii) absence
of deposit insurance in SCAs network. For this purpose, CAPMU is collaborating with
international organizations in order to create a members savings insurance fund. Also, the
-23 -



possibility to introduce a ratio between SCA's internal resources and funds attracted from RFC
and commercial banks that will compel SCAs to collect savings from its members is being
examined.
*     The necessity of training SCA members by MMA and RDC. Due to the fact that the
number of new SCA members increased many times compared to the initial number of SCA
members (15-20 members) trained, it is practically impossible for SCA Boards to manage to train
all of them by themselves. As a result, the sense of mutual trust and responsibility among members
of some of SCAs diminished in the next years of their activity. RDC already committed itself to
training second and third year SCAs.
*     The necessity to assist the National Federation of SCAs in order to make its activity
efficient. Mostly needed is technical assistance in legal issues, as well as training of the
Federation's staff and organization of training activities to SCAs - Federation members.
*     Contradictory and unstable legal framework, especially it's licensing and fiscal parts,
continue to cause problems with licensing and working relations with fiscal authorities. SSB
together with the NFSCA and key players in the project already worked out proposals for a
legislative amendment. Significant cooperation is still needed on behalf of the Government.
4.    Conclusions
*     During implementation, the Project progress may be considered good. The development
of the network of SCAs was satisfactory, taking into account RFC, MMA and RDC assistance.
*     The SSB still needs serious support to performs it's activity.
*     RFC has fully fulfilled the task delegated to it during the project. It became the central
financing institution for SCAs, performing sound lending operations to its target-clients defined in
the project documents. Repayment of loans provided by RFC to SCAs is very satisfactory, being
almost 100% from SCAs and 97-98% from final beneficiaries. RFC shall maintain these ratios at
the highest possible levels.
*     Efforts need to be continued in order to faster capitalize the SCAs and lower the ratio
between the external financing required and the total credit need. Further mobilization of savings
will also contribute to improving the situation.
*     RFC is fully complying with the provisions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement signed with
the Ministry of Finance, and is current with all payments of interest.
Further development of SCAs, RFC and SSB necessitates assisting them in ensuring their
self-sustainability, improving internal management performance, and mobilizing SCAs' internal
resources, especially in terms of deposits.  It is absolutely necessary to have a definite
institution-building program within the project aimed to achieve the self-sustainability of these
institutions.
- 24 -



(b) (. ?.:, ,,,,, ,,
(c) Other parinets (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 25 -



Annex 1. Key Performance IndicatorslLog Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indilcator/Matrix             -    Projected in last PSR                ActualLabest Estimate
Regulatory Body for SCAs established and  The regulatory agency, the State Supervisory The regulatory agency, the State Supervisory
operating                             Body (SSB), has been established and its  Body (SSB), has been established
draft statues, regulations and prudential rules
have been found acceptable to the mission
* RFC established and operating       The Rural Finance Corporation (RFC) is  The Rural Finance Corporabon (RFC) is
actively lending to SCAs              actively lending to SCAs (to 200 SCAs in
2001 - about MDL 52 million)
 All SCAs meet prudential            All SCAs under the project in compliance  All SCAs under the project in compliance
requirements
Output Indicators:
Indicatorlatrix                    Projected In last PSR                ActuallLatest Estimate
By end 1998 - 70 SCAs and by mid 1999  Target of 130 SCAs to be established has  About 350 SCAs established and operational
about 130 SCAs formed                 been met. 292 SCAs currently established
About $2 million loans made to SCAs from  US$ 3.8 million lent to SCAs in CY2000  Total lending under project in 2001, to 200
project or private sources by mid 1999                                     SCAs and financed under the project is USD
4.8 million equivalent. In addition, a major
commercial bank lent about USD 2 million
equivalent in 2001 to 140 SCAs
About 5 SCAs started savings mobiization                                   Few SCAs have started savings mobilization.
By June 30, 2001, total amount of savings
was still negligible, less than 1 % of total
outstanding loan portfolio.
Less than 10% of the principle loan amount No arrears or defaults to date, repayment rate Repayment rate of RFC in 2000 almost
is overdue by more than 60 days       in 1999- 100%                        100%. Total arrears in excess of 60 days, as
of June 30, 2000, is MDL 71,000 equivalent
to about USD 5600
RFC operates fully within RFC prudential  Fully in compliance              Fully in compliance
guidelines
Average loan size and savings amount  Average loan size is less than 3X per capita  According to latest full year data, 2000, the
smaller than three times the size of per capita GDP                        average loan size was, less than 3X per
GDP                                                                        capita GDP (MDL 4,376 x 3 = 13,128)
Average loan size in 2001- MDL 2,700
End of project
-26 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest.  Percentage of
Estimate     Edtimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component           US$ milflon   USS milhon
Establishment of SCAs                              0.80          0.65            81
Regulatory Body for SCAs                           0.20          0.05            75
Establishment of RFC                               0.20           0.45          225
Rural Credit Line for SCAs                         4.90           4.80           98
Total Baseline Cost                                6.10           5.95
Total Project Costs            6.10           5.95
Total Financing Required             6.10          5.95
Notes:
1.    Differences between total amount of appraisal estimate and actual are mainly the result of
exchange rate differences between the SDR and the US Dollar.
2.    Appraisal estimates and actual expenditures include donor financing of US$ 400,000 from
GTZ. Other projected donor participation was mentioned in the PAD but not included in project
cost tables because amounts were not known at that time. In fact, because of the satisfactory
progress in implementation, the Project attracted large amounts of donor financing, mainly for
the establishment of SCAs. Total actual project cost, until the closing date of June 30, 2001,
including all donor financing, was about US$ 7.0 million. This amount does not include the
amount of credit provided to SCA by MAIB, from its own resources, of about US$ 1.8 million,
which was not anticipated and, therefore, was not shown in PAD Project financing tables.
3.    The beneficiaries and amounts of donor financing for the project are detailed below (all
amounts are in US$ equivalents):
MMA
GTZ                                     400,000
Open Society Institute                   160,000
Soros Foundation                        340,982
Women's World Banking                    85,685
IFAD                                     65,000
Fincombank                                10,325
Subtotal                               1,061,992
RDC
CNFA                                     83,000
DFID                                     58,000
Subtotal                                 131,000
- 27 -



iSCA Federation
Soros Foundation                            17,000
Coraid (Dutch Government)                   37,000
Subtotal                                    54,000
IiRFC                            ___           _
Dutch Government                           100,000
CNFA                                        22,000
Subtotal                                   122,000
__B__         ___        _   _   __     _
SSB_.-
DFID             _                         100,000
TOTAL                                    1,468,992
About US$ 890,000 of above total, financed the establishment, training and technical assistance of
SCA. US$ 80,000 fi-om the Dutch government is included in the equity of RFC.
The average sub-loan amount to individual SCA members, and financed from the credit line under
the project, averaged US$ 200. Goods were purchased by beneficiaries from regular commercial
channels. The Credit Agreement did not include any procurement provisions in respect of goods
financed from the Credit line, which constituted about 95 percent of the Credit amount. The total
amount of consultant services financed from the Credit, (for the annual audits of RFC and PIU)
was less than US$ 20,000 equivalent. Consultants were hired in accordance with instructions in
Part B of Schedule 3 to the Credit Agreement.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
1 ~ ~    ~   .                                     P.ercentage of Appraisdl
Component            Appraisal Estimate        Actualatest Estiate-         -
Bank     Goit      C6F.     Bank     Govt.    C_P.    Bank  Covt   CoF.
Establishment of SCAs  0.00     0.00     0.80      0.00     0.00     1.70    0.0    0.0   212.5
Regulatory Body for SCAs  0.20  0.00     0.00      0.00     0.03     0.10    0.0    0.0   0.0
Establishment of RFC   0.20     0.00     0.00      0.10     0.17     0.10    50.0   0.0    0.0
Rural Credit Line for  4.60     0.00     0.30      4.80     0.00     0.00    104.3  0.0   0.0
SCAs
Total Project Cost     5.00     0.00      1.10     4.90     0.20     1.90    98.0   0.0   172.7
Note: Please see explanations regarding calculation of total project cost, including donor financing, which was
originally not shown in PAD Project Cost table, in Notes following Table in Annex 2, above.
- 28 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 29 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
April 1996                   1   Team Leader
July- August 1996            6   Team Leader, Economist,
Extension Specialist; Credit
Delivery Specialist, Credit
Unions Specialist, Rural Credit
Specialist (consultants)
Aug - Sept 1996              2   2 Rural Banking Specialists
(consultants)
November 1996                4   Division Chief, Task Manager,
Credit Specialist (part-time)
December 1996                2   2 Micro-credit Specialists
(consultants)
February 1997                4   Team Leader, Deputy Team
Leader; Micro-credit Specialist
(consultant)
March 1997                   1   MIS Specialist (consultant)
June 1997                    1   Task Manager
Appraisal/Negotiation
Sept - Oct 1997             4    Task Manager; 1
Micro-credit Specialist
(consultant), 2 Consultants
Supenvision
March 1998                   3   Team Leader; I Quality             S             S
Assurance Consultant, 1
Legal Counsel
September 1998               3   Team Leader, Financial             S             S
Management Specialist; 1
Quality Assurance Consultant
April 1999                   4   Team Leader, Agricultural          S             S
Economist, Operations Analyst;
Rural Banking Specialist
(consultant)
July 1999                    4   Team Leader, Agricultural          S             S
Economist, Operations Analyst;
Rural Banking Specialist
(consultant)
October 1999                 4   Team Leader, Agricultural          S             S
Economist, Operations Analyst;
Rural Banking Specialist
(consultant)
April 2000                   4   Team Leader, Operations            S             S
Analyst; Rural Banking
Specialist, Financial Analyst
30 -



(consultants)
September 2000              2   Team Leader; Financial Analyst     S             S
(consultant)
December 2000               3   Team Leader, Rural Banking         S             S
Specialist, Financial Analyst
(consultants)
February 2001                3  Team Leader; Rural Banking         S             S
Specialist, Financial Analyst
(consultants)
May-June 2001                3   Team Leader; Rural Banking        S             S
Specialist, Financial Analyst
(consultants)
ICR
September 2001              3    Task Team Leader,                 S             S
Operations Analyst; Rural
Banking Specialist,
(consultant)
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation             124.9                       479.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                    12.0                       25.4
Supervision                             72.8                       215.6
ICR                                      4.0                        14.6
Total                                  213.7                       734.7
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H-High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
LI Macro policies                        O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
El Sector Policies                       OH    O SU O M   O N   * NA
E] Physical                              O H   *SUOM      O N   O NA
El Financial                             OH    CO SU * M  ON    ONA
O Institutional Development              0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
EL Environmental                         0 H   0 SU 0 M   0 N   * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM       O N  * NA
LI Gender                          OH OSUOM ON ONA
El Other (Please specify)          O H  O SU O M    ON   * NA
El Private sector development            0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
O Public sector management               0 H   O SU O M   0 N   * NA
O Other (Please specify)                 0 H   0 SU 0 M   O N   * NA
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactoiy, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
O Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
0 Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU     OHU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS       O u    O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U    O HU
Oi Government implementation performance            O HS * S     0 U    0 HU
El Implementation agencyperformance                 OHS OS       0 U    O HU
LI Overall                                          OHS OS       0 U    O HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Project Appraisal Document - Moldova: Rural Finance Project - Report No: 17177-MD
2. Development Credit Agreement - Moldova: Rural Finance Project
3. Minutes of Negotiations
4. Mid-Term Report
5. Moldova - Economic Indicators - 1992 - 2000
6. Audited Financial Statements for Project - June 30, 2001
7. Audited Financial Statements - RFC - June 30, 2001
8. Comparative Financial Statements - RFC - 1997 to June 2001
9. Financial Indicators of 200 SCA - RFC Borrowers - June 30, 2001
10. Financial Indicators of 140 SCA - MAIB Borrowers - June 30, 2001
11. Consolidated Balance Sheet of SCA System - June 30, 2001
12. Creation of SCAs by Year and by Institution Involved in Creation
13. Status of Delinquent Loan in SCAs - June 30, 2001
14. Status of Savings Mobilization by SCAs - June 30, 2001
15. Utilization of PHRD Grant for Services by Consultants
16. Sources and Uses of Funds from GOM Contribution
- 34 -



IBRD 31692
< N        r BELARUS      FEDERATION
< E  POLAND.,      r. 
48'30'                              Mohiliov-                    48'30'-  r  PO,A1,
,- {^  1CZ oX                                 fREPI    ,  '   UKRAINE
3 j  aTR'A REM -_-Ot LDOVA
i>'^) Briceni           X   _           ,t1- Vir r-                       ,            -;_ --
EDINET       oDonduserL,                                 I-          - -           -       7
Edinet
,--Z,                    ~~~~So roca111                     ~                -
-48100'                       L ,,  O fli.O  SOROCA      CimennriPo  N 29100'        29'30'          30'H0' 48'00'-
'I  /               : ~~~~~~~~Flore,stio   (t "       ,
kOCostesti                    -            ,          j )
tw                k            S,dt~~~~~~Vdanepsi   r
~~~GlodeniO  BALTI  h~~~~ (.MorcuIestia ~~Ribnita        UK     A  N
GlodeniO                                   RezlZna-o,( 'R- i 
X OBalctina  BALTI   >~~~~~~~~I                         U K R A I N E
oSIngerei ,                      : 
- 7'0  Falet,fi                       ORHEI    :        J
47'30                                           *   OTelenebsti    Chipercini \\3                       47O3DC
oOrheii
tcuIeni UNGHENI          K                   ,DUBASARKVJ\
o,Caras,0 -     1,<       Criuleni\$,,
R O M    A N   I A          SAUngheni                  CHSINAU           -"      \
Straeni0c.. r%" ,-. Grigoriopc,14 ,,
>'\_> Ni-i !~~38jTr4Tj_> , 
47'00'                                    ',s                                                            47 00
MOLDOVA                                    '.       \veni *
RURAL      FINANCE         PROJECT         <   Lao                '-.'AHincesti  Aneoni0 Be'r  ZTiras1--
NLeuseni                     ,X.Aighina)
m                      \     LE27SwNA      Ag    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oicainari F3_4_23M0  < So6zi
NUMBER OF BORROWERS                                  N.              cau,senij
NUMBER OF SAVINGS AND                                          TIGHINA
CREDIT ASSOCIATIONS                       Cimisliao               Stefan-Vodao          46'30'
0    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS       iLeova    ( "-.       S_I    '        a /                4_0
s    JUDET CAPITALS                      I: ., j        :                    -\';  <             -
*9    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                  a) arobeasca                             -
-    -   JUDET BOUNDARIES               50aoCantemir  _  0_  01arr
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                      IGagauzial'\
) .~(GAGAUZIA,*/
CAHUL j              C,eAir/
1,0 20  30  40  50I                                           UKR\N "N0
-4600'           KILOMETERS                   |        '                     u   K  R A     I N   E     4600
6 RACtITA R 77 1
This mop wos procducecl by the             Cahul eTarac i q.A
Map Design Unit of The World Bank.      '        ' 
The boundaries, colors, denominations                                                  I \
and anyother information shown on
this map do not imply, on the part of        .N
The World Bank Group, any judgment       yulcarnpti O  J
on the legalstatus of any territory,ar o
any endorsement or acceptance of           -4   c,                          - i                   a C k
such boundaries.                                                                                 5 J> U  Seo
45'3     2700'           2730'          Giurgiules qi eni 8'30' | ,- ---                             0 D   200
DECEMBER 2001



