Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 17177-MD
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US $5 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
FOR A
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
December 19, 1997
ECSRE
ECCO7
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 30, 1997)
Currency Unit = Moldovan Lei
US $1 = Lei 4.67
Lei I = US $0.21
FISCAL YEAR
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFC          Agricultural Finance Corporation
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
FSU          Forner Soviet Union
EBRD         European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
GOM          Government of Moldova
GTZ          Gesellschaft flier Technische Zusammenarbeit
IFC          International Finance Corporation
IRR          Internal Rate of Return
MMA          Moldova Microfinance Alliance
NBM          National Bank of Moldova
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PPC          Project Preparation Committee
PSD          Private Sector Development Project
RFC          Rural Finance Corporation
RFP          Rural Finance Project
RFPIU        Rural Finance Project Implementation Unit
SCA          Savings and Credit Association
WWB          Women's World Banking
Vice President:     Johannes Linn
Country Director:   Roger Grawe
Sector Director:    Kevin Cleaver
Task Team:          Florian Grohs (Task Team Leader)
Konrad Ellsaesser (SCA Development)
Amnon Golan (Institutions)
V.S. Raghavan (RFC Development)
Vice President:     Johannes Linn
Country Director:   Roger Grawe
Sector Director:    Kevin Cleaver
Team Leader:        Florian Grohs



Republic of Moldova
Rural Finance Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Sector background
2. Project development objective and key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related.CAS goal supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed by IDA and/or other development agencies
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
4. Indications of borrower commitrnent and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic
2. Financial
3. Technical
4. Institutional
5. Social
6. Environmental assessment
7. Participatory approach
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks
3. Possible controversial aspects



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions
2. Other
H. Readiness for Implementation
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Map          IBRD 24285R3



Republic of Moldova
Rural Finance Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Rural Development and Environment Unit
Country Department for Moldova
Date: December 19, 1997                            Task Team Leader: Florian Grohs
Country Director: Roger Grawe                      Sector Director: Kevin Cleaver
Project ID: MD-35781   Sector: Agriculture         Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable
Development
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan   Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes  [] No
Project Financing Data               [  Loan      [X] Credit       [  Guarantee      [] Other [Specily)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$5 million/SDR 3.7 million)
Proposed terms: 35 years              [X] Multicurrency      [ ] Singlecurrency
Grace period (years): 10         [1   Standard variable   [ ] fixed         [ ]   Libor-based
Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.00%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign           Total
IDA                                                       0.0                5.0              5.0
Donors (Womens World Banking (WWB), Soros, GTZ)           0.0                0.4              0.4
Beneficiaries                                             0.7                0.0              0.7
Total        0.7                5.4             6.1
Borrower: Republic of Moldova, Ministry of Finance
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Rural Finance Project Implementation Unit (RFPIU), Rural Finance Corporation, Savings and
Credit Associations
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):  1998      1999
Annual 2.6        2.4
Cumulative 2.6        5.0
Project implementation period: 2 years Expected effectiveness date: 2/1/1998    Expected closing date; 12/31/1999
OSD PAD Forn: July 30, 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Sector Background:
Moldova is a small, densely settled country that relies heavily on agriculture. The country
produces a variety of agricultural products including wine, fruits and horticulture products. Food
and agriculture contributed to about 42% of GDP in 1995 and the sector employs about half of
the total labor force. Total agricultural output contracted rapidly after independence and is
expected to continue to contract for the next few years, although at a much slower pace. Yet a
partial recovery of agricultural exports has been observed in recent years. The Government of
Moldova (GOM) is committed to providing a supportive environment for the emerging private
farming sector, and views agriculture as the engine of sustainable growth of the economy. These
reforms are supported through the Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL lI).
Moldova was one of the first former Soviet Union (FSU) countries to take decisive action to
stabilize its economy. In agriculture, GOM introduced a liberal price regime in 1993 - 1995 with
very limited direct subsidies to agriculture producers and processors. Factors that have hampered
the development of agriculture have been Government interventions in the grain sector, high
taxation for private farming, and indirect subsidies for some agricultural sub-sectors. In 1997,
GOM has taken significant steps to liberalize the grain market, complete privatization of agro-
processing enterprises in the input supply and grain marketing sector, and reduce the level of
indirect subsidization significantly.
Land reform and farm restructuring remains controversial in Moldova, and only limited
progress has been achieved in this area. The bulk of the land is still used by large-scale former
kolkhozes and sovkhozes but about 16% of the land is under full private management. The
number of independent private farmers (about 2-3 ha average) reached about 156,000 in mid-
1997 and is increasing rapidly. Private family farms consistently outperform large-scale farms,
the fact of which is increasingly recognized by GOM and the agro-industrial sector. Many of the
large-scale farms are de facto bankrupt because of debts, lack of capital investments, low worker
morale, and deterioration of assets. Simplified farm restructuring and land privatization
regulations, combined with pressure created by the increased economic difficulty of the
unrestructured farms, have resulted in a new push to finalize farm restructuring. The GOM has
committed itself to restructure 150 farms in 1997 and 200 farms in 1998 out of a total number of
about 900 large farms. In addition, a large USAID farm restructuring program is currently under
implementation in 1997 and will be continued the following year.
Most of the new private farmers that are leaving the kolkhozes, and the newly emerging rural
enterprises, cannot obtain loans from commercial banks. The major reason is that using a
classical lending approach, the typical loan size is too small to cover the costs of commercial
banks. In addition, most of these clients cannot provide adequate collateral to the banks when
starting their business because they often do not have adequate assets. At the same time, these
new farms and rural enterprises have considerable potential for growth and for income-
generating investments, if they can provide sound business plans and propose bankable
investments. Relatively small loans (often between US $200 and $1,000) could enable farmers to
buy good quality seeds, fertilizer, and machinery services, which in turn raise the production and
sale of agricultural products significantly.
Cooperative banking systems like the Raiffeisen Bank in Germany, the Credit Unions in the
United States, or even the Banca Populare that existed before 1940 in Moldova, are well suited to
provide these services to the rural population based on mutual principles. The principal benefit
of such institutions is to lower the costs of financial intermediation sufficiently enough to make



Page 3
small-scale lending financially profitable. There is scope to re-introduce a similar system into the
rural economy of Moldova. The key objective of this project is to test a mechanism that would
overcome the two most important impediments to financing the rural sector - high transaction
costs due to small loan size and lack of traditional collateral. By creating Savings and Credit
Associations, this project tests a method to reduce transaction costs, create a substitute for
traditional collateral, and mobilize savings from the rural population.
A Pilot Project to test this concept started in March 1997 using grants from the Soros
Foundation and the Dutch Government in the amount of US $190,000. This money was used to
establish 11 pilot Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs) in Moldova and to make about 411
short-term seasonal loans (6-9 months) at an average size of US$ 450, and real positive interest
rates (24%). SCAs are voluntary organizations that lend to, and mobilize savings from their
members, and operate in a manner similar to Credit Unions. Members of the SCA elect their
board and a supervisory council. The SCA board determines the individual loan size, maturity,
collateral requirements, and repayment schedule for each borrowing member. Presently, the 11
SCAs operate under a temporary Government Decree regulating the establishment and operation
of SCAs. Sample statutes and prudential rules for SCA have been drafted and discussed with the
National Bank and the Ministry of Justice. Progress to date under the pilot project shows that all
members of the SCAs are current in repaying their credits. However, some aspects, notably
savings mobilization by SCAs, the design of an appropriate regulatory structure for SCAs and the
operation of a cooperative re-financing institution still need to be tested.
2. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The objective of the Project is to develop and test a cooperative rural banking system that
would efficiently provide financial services to small private farmers and rural entrepreneurs. In
order to achieve these objectives, the Project would establish Savings and Credit Associations
and train their members with assistance of the Moldova Microfmance Alliance (MMA), create a
regulatory body for SCAs, strengthen the Rural Finance Corporation (RFC), and finance a rural
credit line to SCAs.
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL). The project is processed as a LIL because it allows
to build trust among the members of the SCAs and test the institutional capacity of the SCAs, the
RFC, and the regulatory body needed for a larger follow-on operation.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 15499-MD   Date of latest CAS discussion: 4/5/96
GOM's overall objective is to re-establish sustainable economic growth. The Bank's
assistance program supports private sector development, public sector restructuring, and
improvement of financial discipline. The CAS specifically identifies the transformation of public
institutions and services of the agriculture sector as important to re-establish growth. It describes
the provision of financial services to primary agriculture as a key component to ensure the supply
response in agriculture that would lead to growth of the sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Government strategy for agriculture is aimed at creating the enabling environment for a



Page 4
private agriculture to grow. The Second Structural Adjustment Loan1 (SAL II), is designed to
deepen the reforms in agriculture, especially in the further de-monopolization of input supply and
grain handling, acceleration of farm restructuring and land reform, and the liberalization of
agricultural trade. Therefore the macro-economic framework and an appropriate sector reforms
are underway to ensure an enabling environment for growth in agriculture. The overall
agricultural strategy consists of four elements; farm restructuring and land privatization; reform
and growth of the agro-processing sector, de-monopolization of the input and products market,
and institutional reform, including the creation of new institutions to provide financial services to
a private agriculture sector. The Project supports these objectives directly.
Farm Restructuring and Land Privatization. A strong move is underway to improve
agriculture productivity and marketing by promoting land reform and farm restructuring. The
recently passed amendment to the law on normative prices allows for lease, purchase, and sale of
agricultural land at market conditions. GOM simplified land privatization and farm restructuring
regulations, created a special agency to promote rapid farm restructuring, and started a large farm
restructuring program in 1997. GOM is committed to completing the distribution of land and the
assets of the large farms as soon as possible so that private farms of different organizational
forms and sizes can establish themselves. The project will help newly emerging private farmers
access the credit resources to be provided under the project through Savings and Credit
Associations (SCAs), thereby directly supporting the land reform process.
Agro-Processing. Most agro-processors have been privatized and there is visible growth in
the industry, but it continues to emerge slowly. Some of the agro-processors have started to
modernize their operations, have attracted foreign direct investors, including the IFC, and have
successfully increased their output and sales. However, many of the agro-processors are
undercapitalized and are still in the process of being restructured. The more successful agro-
processors have access to foreign credit lines through the Private Sector Development Project
(PSD) and EBRD credit lines. EBRD operates a special "microcredit" line that offers small loans
of up to US $20,000 to small enterprises, including smaller agro-processors. This Project would
complement the existing credit lines by offering micro loans to artisans and micro-entrepreneurs
in the rural areas.
De-Monopolization of the Input and Products Market. In order to increase competition in the
inputs and products market, GOM is committed to fully privatize and de-monopolize the
remaining Cereale and Fertilitatea companies. This measure would then improve the access of
primary agriculture to different input supply and marketing channels, which then, in turn, would
increase the profitability of primary agriculture.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project deepens the agricultural sector reforms supported by SAL II. Therefore no
sector-specific conditionality is included in the loan. Through this project, private farmers will
have an alternative source for farm credits and become less dependent on the ex-collective farms
for the provision of inputs and services. The project complements the existing financial services
for agro-processors in the rural areas by directly financing the primary production of small
private farmers and the activities of micro-entrepreneurs. In addition, the project contributes to
de-monopolization of the partly state controlled input and products market for agriculture,
because farmners can obtain the financial means through the project to buy from and sell products
to different traders. The SCAs might also offer a basis for future farmers' cooperative
organizations to purchase inputs or market the agricultural products.
SAL II became effective in October 1997.



Page 5
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
A. Development of Savings and Credit Associations (category: institution-building). The
project would provide technical assistance and training to develop SCAs in the rural areas of
Moldova.. The Rural Finance Project Implementation Unit (RFPIU), which is under the auspices
of the Ministry of Finance, will engage NGOs acceptable to IDA to develop SCAs, train the
board and members of the SCA, and provide accounting services to the SCAs. The Moldova
Microfinance Alliance (MMA), a local non-governmental organization (NGO) has the necessary
skills to provide training to SCAs. MMA would receive an initial grant for the first two years of
operations from the Soros Foundation, WWB, and possibly the Gesellschaft fuer Technische
Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) to cover the costs of the foreign technical assistance and part of the local
operating cost. The other part of the operating cost will be covered through a small fee MMA
charges the SCAs.
These SCAs would mobilize savings from and lend to their members. It is expected that up
to December 1998 about 73 SCAs with about 3,800 members and up to December 1999 about
130 SCAsl with about 8,400 members will be created and receive loans through the project. The
growth of SCAs matches a thorough training plan for SCA and RFC staff, in order to ensure a
cautious development of the loan portfolio. About 350 SCAs are expected to operate over the
next five years. These SCAs could be possibly financed through a follow-on project.
B. Establishment of a regulatory body of the SCAs (category: institution-building). The project
will provide technical assistance and training to the RFPIU to temporarily supervise and regulate
SCAs, to develop the framework for a permanent regulatory body of SCAs, and to finance year-
end audits of SCAs established under the project. This regulatory body would monitor
compliance of SCAs with the prudential rules for SCAs, which have been agreed between the
Government and IDA during preparation. The design of the regulatory structure is still under
discussion and will be further developed and tested during project implementation. Future
regulation is possible through either (a) a government regulatory body for SCAs or through (b) a
self-regulatory body created by the SCAs.
The operation of the SCAs will be governed by a draft law on SCAs2 which has been
presented to Parliament. The promulgation of this law, acceptable to IDA, is a condition of
effectiveness.
C. Establishment of the Rural Finance Corporation (RFC) (category: institution-building). The
Project would provide technical assistance and training to the RFC. This is a new wholesale
institution to channel a credit line to legally registered SCAs, owned by its member SCAs,
registered as a financial joint-stock company under Moldovan law, and licensed as a non-bank
financial institution. RFC will operate according to agreed prudential rules (Annex 2) and an
agreed policy manual, specifying RFC's lending policies. If more than 10% of the credits from
SCAs to RFC are overdue by more than 60 days, IDA may suspend the loan. The adoption of the
statutes and the Operations Manual, acceptable to IDA, and the appointment of a General
'it is expected that about 153 SCAs will operate at the end of 1998, of which about 130 would be financed through
the project.
2the draft law has been reviewed and agreed with IDA.



Page 6
Directorl is a condition for effectiveness.
All SCAs borrowing from the RFC must contribute to the share capital of RFC and become
shareholders. RFC is majority owned by the SCAs with the Government of Moldova holding
20% of the voting shares of RFC. The RFC would be capitalized in three ways: (i) SCAs will
pay in share capital; (ii) each SCA which wishes to borrow from RFC will be required to invest,
in form of privileged shares, 5% of the loans outstanding from RFC; and (iii) GOM will grant
RFC "quasi-equity" in the form of a 35 year loan of US $2 million with an interest rate of 0.75%,
The RFC would take the full commercial lending risk.
D. Rural Credit Line for SCAs. The Project would provide a credit line to RFC who in tum will
extend loans exclusively to SCAs operating in the rural areas. The SCAs will, in turn, onlend
these loans to their members. Most of these loans will be small (average US$ 500-700) short-
term loans (9 - 12 months) to finance investments.for productive purposes like seasonal
agricultural inputs, spare parts for equipment, small works, or other small investments. Only
rural SCAs which have been registered in accordance with the Law on SCAs, have made all
necessary contributions to RFC, received training from the MMA2, are fully current in their debt
service obligations to the RFC, and meet the SCA's prudential rules, would qualify for a loan.
For small loans, the SCAs will rely mainly on a mutual guarantee of its members and for larger
and medium-term loans the SCAs will require the member-borrowers to provide collateral. All
members of the SCA jointly guarantee repayment of the entire loan to the RFC. SCAs will be
responsible for evaluating loan applications from members combining them into a single loan
application and submitting it to RFC. The RFC's loan assessment will be limited to reviewing
the SCAs financial soundness.
The credit line will be in Lei with GOM bearing the foreign exchange risk. The interest rate
to RFC will be determined semi-annually based on the 3 month auction rate of the National Bank
of Moldova3. MOF has the right to charge an additional guarantee fee of up to 2% which is
determined on past loan repayment performance. RFC will add a spread of about 5% to the
onlending interest rate. RFC will repay the loan to MOF in semi-annual installments over 20
years, including a grace period of 5 years.
Project Cost Table
Component              Category      Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-      % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)              (US$M)   financing
Establishment of SCAs           institution-   0.8          14%        0         0%
building
Regulatory Body of SCAs         institution-   0.2           3%       0.2        4%
building
Establishment of the RFC        institution-   0.2           3%       0.2        4%
building
Rural Credit Line for SCAs      credit line    4.9          80%       4.6        92%
Total 6.1            100%      5.0       100%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Farm restructuring and land reform by providing working capital and medium-term loans to
I an interim General Director had been appointed prior to negotiations
2or any other NGO acceptable to IDA
3At around 18% in November 1997



Page 7
newly emerging private farmers and rural entrepreneurs;
*   increase in competition among agricultural input suppliers and buyers of agricultural
produce by delinking inputs and marketing from the supply of credits;
*   development of the legal and institutional basis for a sustainable cooperative rural financial
system.
3. Benefits and target population:
* An estimated 10,000 small private farmers and small rural entrepreneurs will gain access to
the financial markets and receive working capital and medium-term loans;
* introduction of a cost effective rural financial system for micro-loans;
* mobilization of savings from the rural population;
* provision of finance for small, productive investments to generate income and employment;
* establishment of a sustainable cooperative banking system similar to Credit Unions, which
would mobilize savings and finance investments in the rural areas; and
*   encourage the formation of farmer self-help organizations in other areas like marketing
cooperatives or producer cooperatives.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The overall direction and coordination of the agricultural investment program (consisting of
the First Agriculture Project, the proposed Rural Finance Project, and the proposed Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project) is in the hands of the Project Preparation Committee (PPC). The PPC is
chaired by a Deputy Prime Minister, includes representatives of different Ministries, and has
been functioning since mid 1996.
Project identification and preparation was managed by the Agency for the Implementation of
the Rural Finance Project (RFPIU) under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance. The RFPIU
was officially created in March 1997, and coordinates all project activities. During
implementation, it will be responsible for: (i) coordinating project activities, (ii) managing
monitoring & evaluation, procurement and reporting to IDA, (iii) administering disbursements
and oversee the collection of funds advanced to the RFC; (iv) engaging NGOs to develop and
train SCAs, (v) temporarily supervising the SCAs created under the Project until a regulatory
body has been established. For the detailed monitoring and evaluation arrangements, indicators,
and responsibilities, compare the Project Design Summary (Annex 1). The staff of the RFPIU
will consist of a Director, a regulatory officer, and an administrative assistant.
The Ministry of Finance shall maintain all the records and accounts for the Special Account
and ensure that it is properly audited by independent auditors acceptable to the IDA. If more than
10% of the loans made by the RFC to SCAs are overdue for more than 60 days, IDA may cancel
disbursement of the Credit Line.
A mid term review will be scheduled for March 1999, and an ICR will be prepared six
months prior to the expected final disbursements in June 1999. The monitoring and evaluation
results will be used to determine and design the follow-on project, for which appraisal will be
tentatively scheduled for end 1998.



Page 8
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Financing Channel for the emerging private farming and rural enterprise sector:
*   Provision of credit line through the existing commercial banks for retail lending. This was
rejected because: (a) high commercial bank lending costs and strict collateral requirements
make it impossible for commercial banks to meet the demands of the majority of the small
emerging farmers; and (b) access to capital is not a constraint for the major commercial
banks because of the availability of credit lines from EBRD and the World Bank PSD
Project.
*   Creation of a new financial institution, similar to the Agricultural Finance Corporation
(AFC) in Latvia, that would provide retail lending to individual private farms or rural
enterprises. This was rejected because: (a) there are already three large commercial banks
with a considerable branch network in the rural areas; (b) reasonable lending costs and
profitable lending margins for retail lending are difficult to achieve in the rural areas of
Moldova because of the small average loan size due to the small farm structure (<5 ha); (c)
commercial banks have access to the special "microcredit" lines of the World Bank and
EBRD to refinance loans of less than US $20,000.
*   Lending through the existing commercial banks to SCAs. Except for Agroindbank,
commercial banks declined to participate in this project. However, due to the urgency of
making the loan available before the spring planting season, and the necessity to simplify the
project structure, it was decided to delay processing of this request until 1999. Commercial
banks will be included in the follow-up project, if they continue to express interest.
Type and Capitalization of RFC
*   Creation of RFC as a bank from the start. This was rejected because: (a) RFC does not
mobilize savings and is therefore not considered a bank under the Law on Financial
Institutions; and (b) the staff of RFC does not have sufficient expertise in the full range of
banking operations.
*   Creation of RFC as a Government-owned institution and privatizing it over time. This was
rejected, because: (a) private farmers do not trust the state and feel that the state owes them
for unpaid pensions and other undelivered services, therefore payment delinquencies were
expected to be high; and (b) a gradual privatization approach would involve the
complication of having to put RFC under the privatization auspices of the Ministry of
Privatization.
*   Creation of RFC as a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to distribute loan funds to SCAs.
This was rejected because a PIU-type operation: (a) would be vulnerable to political
influence; and (b) might develop a slower response time than a commercial operation
because of lack of incentives for the staff.
Regulation of SCAs
* Have the National Bank regulate SCAs. This was rejected by the National Bank and by IMF
consultants because: (a) SCAs do not fall under the Law on Financial Institutions and do not
need to be regulated by NBM; (b) the staff of NBM do not have the capacity to supervise
large numbers of SCAs in addition to the existing 20 commercial banks; (c) the prudential
requirements for banks are more complex than what is necessary for SCAs with limited
amounts of equity; and (d) the equity capital, total borrowings, and savings of the individual
SCAs are below the threshold where meaningful regulation by a National Bank should be
required.



Page 9
2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
andplanned):
Sector issue                   Project           Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress       Objective
Bank-financed
Deepening agriculture sector reforms  SAL II                    N/A             N/A
(implementation)
Developing financial institutions - credit   Private Sector       S              HS
line to commercial banks            Development Project
(implementation)
Strengthening agricultural research of high  First Agriculture Project  S        S
value crops                         (implementation)
Rehabilitating irrigation systems   Water Resources
Development Project
(preparation)
Development of rural land registration  First Cadastre Project
(effective)
Other development agencies
SME credit line through commercial    EBRD - Project
banks
TA to commercial banks in rural     EU (TACIS), UK
finance                             Know-how Fund
TA to National Bank to strengthen   IMF
banking supervision                 _                                     I
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The creation of an appropriate policy environment is a necessary pre-condition for the
successful development of the rural financial sector. The SAL II supports the necessary policy
reforms in the agriculture sector. The Rural Finance Project is the first follow-on project aimed
at deepening the sector reforms supported through the SAL II program.
Whereas microfinance operations are one of the best tools to increase the economic
participation, income, and assets of the bottom 50% of a country's economic active population, a
new start-up operation is difficult to design and risky to implement. Therefore complexity of the
project was reduced by limiting the objectives to the development of a sustainable financial
institution and an appropriate legal and regulatory environment for this institution. Regarding the
financial sector policies, GOM and NBM are encouraging structural change in the financial
system, by developing a law for SCAs and setting up a regulatory structure that encourages the
entry and growth of SCAs.
Key factors that will contribute to RFC's success include: strong leadership to establish and
enforce high performance standards for financial and operating perfornance; accountability,
autonomy, and freedom from political interference, the capability to mobilize funding to build the
sustainability of RFC; intimate knowledge of, and competence in, assessing the retail institutions
(SCAs). Additional factors include excellent repayments, non-subsidized interest rates that are
high enough to finance the operating costs, low operating costs, diversity in portfolio between



Page 10
agriculture and rural non-agricultural microentrepreneurs, and an achievable plan to capitalize the
RFC over time. Sound governance, reduction of political influence, and accountability would be
ensured through majority SCA ownership and a stepwise capitalization of RFC. Likewise, RFC
will know the SCAs intimately and only extend loans to those SCAs that meet agreed
performance standards.
International experience suggests that the development (but not the lending operations) of
SCAs needs to be subsidized in the first years. In order to separate the development function
from financial service transactions, an NGO, the Moldovan Microfinance Alliance (MM} will
provide these services on a separate balance sheet with donor grant financing. The MMA will
also organize training programs for SCAs and provide commercial banks with information about
the SCAs operations in order to motivate the local banking sector to lend to SCAs.
The SCAs need to mobilize financial resources from their members in order to reduce
dependence on external financing. Therefore, the law on SCAs would allow them to mobilize
savings from their members under appropriate prudential standards.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
*  GOM has made numerous requests to quicken the pace of project preparation and there has
been a broad consensus regarding the project objectives and design among the Ministries of
Finance, Agriculture, Economy, Justice, the National Bank, and NGOs representing private
farmers;
*  demand by private farmers and rural entrepreneurs for small loans from SCAs has far
outstripped the supply of seed capital for credits provided during the pre-pilot phase; and
*  A conference on microfinance and WWB in August 1997 attracted a large participation of
representatives of Moldovan Government institutions, including the National Bank, non-
governmental farmers' organizations, and politicians supporting the importance of this
project for Moldovan agriculture.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's support will transfer the necessary knowledge to introduce the concept of SCAs to
Moldova, develop and test the regulatory body, establish RFC, and mobilize savings within SCAs
Without the Bank's involvement, microfinance institutions like the SCAs would not have received the
confidence and agreement of the Government to operate in Moldova.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
A representative farm survey carried out in 1997 has shown that small farms are generally more
profitable than the ex-collective farms. Based on these results, model calculations for three small private
farms (2.75 ha) located in the northern, central and southern region of Moldova show that total interest
payment for these loans (30% interest, 6 months maturity) is affordable and varies between 12 - 30% of
the calculated net returns from agriculture.
2. Financial (see Annex 2):
Financial projections indicate a satisfactory position of RFC from year one, mainly as a result of
the 35 year low interest loan of US $2 million from the Government of Moldova. RFC should be in a
position to enlarge its lending volume substantially within the next few years, without large capital
infusions from SCAs while maintaining a debt equity ratio of 3.8:1 and capital adequacy of 21%.
Similarly, the projections for a typical SCA, even on the basis of a low spread of 2.4%, indicate that the



Page 11
SCA will be able to service their debts comfortably and satisfying all the norms relating to capital
adequacy, liquidity, and bad debt provisioning as stipulated in RFC's prudential rules.
Fiscal impact:
The project will have a small fiscal impact on the state budget because the SCA regulatory body
needs to be financed by GOM in the initial years. Indirectly, it will contribute to increasing tax revenues
by increasing the output and profitability of the final beneficiaries.
3. Technical:
The SCAs will receive training from MMA and RFC staff in technical appraisal of sub-projects,
accounting procedures, and management of capital flows.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agency:
The RFC, the major executing agency, is a new institution, and will receive technical assistance
and staff training during the implementation period. The accounting and auditing system of RFC
will be kept according to regulations of the Ministry of Finance. RFC will monitor quarterly
financial information of SCAs and in turn, RFC will submit to GOM and IDA quarterly financial
statements and management reports on its operations, including liquidity and arrears. RFC's
accounts will be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA.
b. Project coordination:
Project implementation will be coordinated by the Rural Finance Project Implementation Unit in
the Ministry of Finance (see implementation arrangements). The RFPIU has successfully
managed project preparation.
5. Social:
A rural sector social assessment was finalized in November 1997. It confirms that short-term
loans for seeds and other inputs are among the biggest needs expressed by independent farmers. Farmers
also noted that obtaining a short-term loan from a commercial bank is difficult and time consuming.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category     []A   [X] B   [] C
The credit officers of RFC and the training officers of the Microfinance Alliance will receive a
training course on environmental screening of loan applications. In addition, a leaflet on the use of
agricultural chemicals will be distributed to the SCAs. Ex-post evaluation of the pilot project will include
an evaluation of the exact nature of the activities financed by the credits. If necessary, additional
environmental controls will be built in. Pesticides categorized as: l(a) (extremely hazardous) and l(b)
(very hazardous) under the WHO classification will not be financed under the loan.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Primary beneficiaries are small private fanners and rural micro-entrepreneurs. About 400
primary beneficiaries actively participated in the design of the project during this year. This was
achieved by creating SCAs as voluntary village-based organizations by the beneficiaries
themselves. The members of the SCAs elect a board and a supervision council from their
members, and the general assembly actively participated in drafting the statutes and by-laws,
setting interest rates, membership fees, and risk fund contributions. The board of the SCAs
screens and approves all the loan applications, and the whole group has joint liability for
repayment. This experience has been used to draft standard statutes and set the requirements for
receiving loans from RFC. All existing SCAs and all future SCAs that want to borrow funds



Page 12
from the RFC have to become shareholders of RFC and have to pay in a voting share capital of
about US $500 per SCA. Therefore the business plan, statutes, and lending policy developed by
the project team, were presented to about 50 elected representatives of SCAs for discussion,
recommendation, and approval. The Corporate Structure of RFC will allow for continuous and
direct participation of key stakeholders on all decisions of RFC during establishment and project
implementation. The structure consists of a general assembly of shareholders (e.g. SCAs) that
will vote on all important matters, e.g. distribution of profits, election of the members of the
Council and the Supervisory Committee. The Council (the Board of Directors) will consist of
five members, of which four are representatives of the SCAs and one from GOM. The Council
will appoint the management of RFC and determine the lending policy.
b. Other key stakeholders:
These are the representatives of different Government agencies (Ministries of Finance, Economy
and Agriculture), the National Bank (independent body), the parliamentary representatives, non-
governmental interest groups of farmers (National Farmers Organization, St. Georges Cartel),
and representatives of commercial banks. Representatives of these groups have, to various
degrees, been informed and consulted. Some have actively participated in designing the project.
Representatives of the non-governmental organizations have also actively participated in project
design and some have key positions in SCAs (e.g. chairman of one of the SCA Boards).
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability will depend on: (i) high loan repayment rates; (ii) good leadership and human
capacity in the SCAs, RFC and the MMA; (iii) appropriate legislative and regulatory framework; and (iv)
competition in the inputs and products markets, especially fertilizer, seeds, and grains.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                 Risk                Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
(Insert - Annex 1, cell "from
Outputs to Objective")
The local banking system does not    M     WB and IMF support to NBM and MOF to maintain
have the stability to weather external     sound monetary, fiscal, and interest rate policies.
shocks.
Slowly emerging competition in the   M     Competition of input supplies will be increased through
predominantly state-owned input            the privatization of the Cereale and Fertilitatea enterprises
supply and grain marketing system          which is included in this year's privatization program.
might result in farmers receiving low       These measures are supported through the SAL II
payments or payments in kind for            program.
their products.



Page 13
(Annex 1, cell "from Components
to Outputs")
Poor loan repayment from SCAs to    H        Key to ensure high repayment is the joint and several
RFC.                                         liability of the SCAs. They will be establishment as
voluntary, democratic SCAs with a coherent membership
structure, in-depth development assistance and a training
program for Board and members of the SCAs. RFC will
require high performance standards of SCAs through a
good financial monitoring system and benchmark criteria
to detect possible poor repayment from the outset. In
order to allow for organic growth, the number of SCAs to
be developed and refinanced by RFC would be restricted
in the first year of implementation. In addition, close and
frequent supervision from the Bank will be necessary.
Political influence on loan allocation.  H   SCAs would own a majority share of RFC right from the
start in order to limit political influence. In addition, IDA
would supervise RFC's operations regularly. All SCAs
would be developed with assistance of the MMA.
Risk of failure of the mutual    S           The mutual guarantee mechanism was tested during one
guarantee mechanism.                         year by SCAs established under the pilot project prior to
the commencement of the RFC's operations. Experience
with this pilot program has been positive and is built into
the project design. For example, individual loans would
be co-signed by other members, the SCA would also use
fixed assets as collateral for larger loans, members of SCA
would, over time, increase the size of their paid-in capital
in their SCA, and the SCA would start to mobilize savings
from members.
Overall Risk Rating S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The speed of lending in the first year of RFC's operation could be considered controversial.
Whereas GOM wants RFC to expand lending to SCAs as quickly as possible, IDA wants RFC to grow
slowly in its first year of operation. Only then can the new staff gain experience with lending procedures
thereby ensuring adequate institutional capacity before operations will be expanded.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
a) The SCA law has been adopted by the Parliament of the Borrower;
b) The statutes and the operational manual have been adopted by RFC, acceptable to IDA, and a
General Manager with qualifications and experience, satisfactory to IDA, has been appointed;
c) The RFC has signed a subsidiary loan agreement with the MOF, satisfactory to IDA..



Page 14
2. Other Covenants
a) The RFPIU shall be maintained for the duration of the project;
b) The RFPIU or a national supervisory and regulatory body, acceptable to IDA, supervises SCAs
participating in the project;
c) By August 31, 1998 a consultant shall be engaged to prepare a plan for the establishment and
operation of a national supervisory and regulatory body and by March 1, 1999 this body shall be
established;
d) RFC shall relend the credit line to SCAs under terms and conditions agreed with IDA;
e) RFPIU shall engage NGOs, acceptable to IDA, to provide training to SCAs participating in the
project;
f) RFC shall carry out its operations in accordance with the RFC prudential rules and guidelines in the
operational manual;
g) RFC shall make subloans to only those SCAs that meet specified eligibility criteria;
h) If more than 10% of the total principal amount then outstanding of all loans made by RFC to SCAs
are overdue past 60 days, IDA may stop disbursements;
i) No pesticides falling into Category 1 (a) and 1 (b) of the WHO classification shall be financed
through the credit.
j) The GTZ Grant Agreements shall become effective latest by June 30, 1998.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [xl Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x] Not applicable.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[x] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
ratification of the law on Savings and Credit Associations.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project co7!plies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Le     FRia roh
Sectorctor: Kevin
Country Director: Roger Grawe



ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
in the IBRD/IDA Lending Program
County:                            MOLDOVA                    Project ID No:                     35781
Project Name:                      Rural Finance              IBRD Amount ($m):                  US $5.0 million
Appraisal Date:                    October 9, 1997
Board Date:                        N/A                         Task Manager:                      Florian Grohs
Managing Division:                 ECSRE                      Sector:                             Agriculture/Credit
Lending Instruments:               LIL                        Status:                             Lending
Date (est) for receipt of EA by Bank:
EA Category (A/B/C):               B                          Date Assigneoi                      November 5, 1997
Date Sheet PrepareUlpdate
(Please do not lave any items blank: use ^N/A' or 'To be developed" when appropriate)
Major Project Components., (presents description of project components)
(i) promote income and economic development of private farmers and entrepreneurs in the rural areas through
provision of financial services, and (ii) to develop and test a cooperative rural banking system that would
efficiently provide these fnancial services to the beneficiaries. In order to achieve these objectives, the Project
would establish Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs) and train their members with assistance of the
Moldova Microfmance Alliance, create a regulatory body for SCAs, strengthen the Rural Finance Corporation
(RFC), and finance a rural credit line to SCAs.
Major Environmental Issue: (describes major environmental Issues identified or suspected In project)
- no major environment^l issues expected from institutional components;
- The average loan size is small (US$ 600 per borrower) and the types of investments would aimed at
increasing the agricultural production of smallholder farmers from their existing fields. Investments in non-
agricultural activities are not expected to lead to any negative environmental impacts. No more than 5 % of the
outstanding credits would be used to purchase agricultural chemicals (fertilizers or pesticides).
Other Environmental Issues: (describes environmental issues of lesser scope associated with project)
none
ProposedActions: (describes actions proposed to mitigate environmental issues described in project)
The credit officers of RFC, the training officers of the Microfinance Alliance, and the staff of the SCAs will
receive a training course on environmental screening of loan applications, including pesticide hazard
classification. Ex-post evaluation of the pilot project include an evaluation of the exact nature of the activities
financed by the credits and if it is necessary to build in additional environmental controls. Pesticides
categorized as l(a) and 1(b) under the WHO classification will not be financed under the loan.
JusHflcatioruRationalefor Environmental Category: (reuons for environmental category selected & explanation of any changes from Initlal clualficatIon)
Some training will be needed for officials of RFC and the SCAs to screen and eliminate dangerous pesticides
from loan applications. This is to avoid a situation, although unlikely, that small farmers purchase potentially
harmful material.
Status of CategoryA EnvlronmentalAssesmentr (preents EA start-up date, EA first draft, and current status)
n/a
Remarks: (gives status of any oter environmental studies, lists locl groups and local NGOs consulted, tells whether borrower hu given permission to releae EA, eam)
Signed                                                        Signed
by:   _            I                                          by:                        'JItMU
Laura Tuck, Sector Leader, ECSRE                              ke.hel D Revers. Sector Leader, ECSRE
November 5, 197



l



Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Moldova: Rural Finance Project
Narrative Summary     Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                       (Goal to Bank Mission)
Increase income and       Growth of agriculture GDP   Agricultural and financial    Farm restructuring and land
generate growth of private   becomes positive again  statistics                reform accelerates.
agriculture.                                                                   Agricultural processing,
marketing, and exports
improve.
Project Development                                                            (Objective to Goal)
Objective:                *  Regulatory Body for    *  Supervision mission     Sufficient local support and
to develop and test a        SCAs established and      reports;               savings to implement and
cooperative rural banking    operating              *  Mid-term Evaluation     sustain SCAs
system that would         *  RFC established and        mission report
efficiently provide financial  operating
services to private farmers   *  All SCAs meet
and rural entrepreneurs.     prudential requirements
Outputs:                                                                       (Outputs to Objective)
*  target number of SCAs   *  by end 1998 - 70 SCAs   *  Mid-Term Review latest *  MMA has sufficient
operating successfully    and by mid 1999 about     March 1999;                donor financing to carry
*  regulatory agency          130 SCAs formed;      *  Quarterly Progress         out operations;
established and tested    *  about $ 2 million      Reports prepared by    *  MOF agrees to set up
and is ensuring           outstanding in loans;     MMA and RFC;               and partly finance
prudential operations of  *  about 5 SCAs started  *  Quarterly accounting     regulatory agency
SCAs.                     savings mobilization.     information provided to  *  SCAs actively use
*  efficient re-financing  *  less than 10% of the      RFC and regulator by      shareholder
institution for SCAs      principal loan amount     MMA;                      responsibilities and limit
tested and operating.     are overdue by more    *  Supervision mission and    political influence on
*  financial resources and   than 60 days;              audit report on           loan allocations
services targeted to the   *  RFC operates fully    operations of RFC
poorer t ,gments of the   within RFC prudential   *  Quarterly Progress and
population.               rules;                    Disbursement Reports
*  average loan size and    *  Subsidy Dependence
savings amount smaller    Index of consolidated
than per capita GDP.      financial statements of
RFC and MMA
Project Components:       Inputs: (budget for each                             (Components to Outputs)
(see Annex 2 for project  component)
description)
*  Development of SCAs   *  $ 0.8 million           Quarterly Progress Reports   *  Willingness of farmers
*  Establishment of a     *  $ 0.2 million          and Disbursement Reports      and rural entrepreneurs
Regulatory Body for                                                           to create SCAs and take
SCAs                                                                           mutual responsibility
*  Establishment of RFC    *  $ 0.2 million                                    *  Parliament passes the
*  Credit Line for SCAs    *  $ 4.9 million                                       law on SCAs






Annex 2
Rural Finance Project- Project Description
PROJECT COMPONENT 1- DEVELOPMENT OF SAVINGS AND CREDIT
ASSOCIATIONS
Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs)
A.   Background
1.    The number of private farms reached about 156,000 in mid-1997 and is increasing
rapidly. Most of the newly created farms and enterprises are presently unable to access
loans from commercial banks largely because: (a) the typical loan size of these
enterprises is too small to cover the intermediation costs of commercial banks using a
classical lending approach; and (b) most of these enterprises have inadequate assets to
offer sufficient collateral to commercial banks to secure loans. At the same time, these
new farms and enterprises have considerable potential for growth and for generating
additional income and employment in rural areas. Relatively small investment amounts
(typically between $200 and $1,000) could enable fanners to buy good quality seed,
ferdlizers and other critical farm inputs along with the hiring of farm machinery services.
These loans are thus expected to result in significant increases in agricultural production
and to provide rural artisans with access to necessary working capital and investment
credits to purchase tools and materials.
B.   The Pilot Program
2.    A Pilot Program was started in December 1996, to test the concept of Savings and
Credit Associations (SCAs) in rural areas, and to develop, using a participatory approach,
statutes, regulations and eligibility criteria for loans to members. FIDES, an international
NGO that has successfully assisted in the creation of village credit associations in
Albania, was recruited to assist with the pilot program. As of September 1997, FIDES
created 11 SCAs and is presently managing loans to these Associations with grant funds
provided by the Dutch Government (US $80,000) and the Soros-Foundation (US
$100,000). Additional funds to finance these Associations through the Rural Finance
Project Implementation Unit, and new ones to be created prior to approval of the Bank's
loan, were provided through a US $750,000 PPF approved by the Bank.
3.    The first 11 SCAs with an initial membership of 497 were founded and registered
in central and southern Moldova. Members in these Associations purchased their initial
membership shares (average value lei 27) and elected the administrative and supervisory
councils. All SCAs were trained in the screening of credit applications and the use of the
regulations. Another 13 SCAs are in the process of being formed, and a total of 40
Association are expected to be created by March 1998. During 1997, at total of41 1 loans



Annex 2                                                             2
were extended with an average duration of ten months, a total value of lei 840,900, and
an average loan amount of lei 20,500 (US $450). Practically all loans were below the
agreed US $1,000 ceiling. These loans were mainly used to purchase seeds, fertilizer,
pesticides, fuel and spare parts for tractors needed for the agricultural spring season.
Several of the loans were also used for income-creating diversification activities such as
livestock, handicrafts, processing of agricultural products and rural trade. Most loans
granted to date are due to be repaid by December 1997. Repayment rate of these loans has
been exceptionally good, with some borrowers prepaying their loans and with all
indications that the pilot will reach an overall recovery rate of 100%.
4.    Experience gained during the pilot project's first year indicates strong demand for
credit on the part of farmers participating in the project, and others in neighboring
villages. Even in villages taking part in the project, however, only a small fraction of
villagers have joined the SCAs, but many more registered interest in joining at a later
stage. A monitoring program has been built into the pilot program from the start to allow
evaluation and analysis of results.
C     Ownership and Capitalization
5.    Each SCA is an economically and legally autonomous private organization.
Membership is voluntary and limited to private persons living in the village of the SCA.
The SCAs provide financial services (taking deposits and granting credits) to their
members. A minimum of 15 members is required to establish an SCA. The decision
making body of the Association is the General Assembly, in which every member has
one vote. The Assembly elects a President and a Board which reports to the Assembly.
The Board decides on the approval of loan demands and mobilization of external
resources. At a later stage as the financial activities of the SCA expand, the Board may
decide to recruit a professional director who will not have to be a member of the
Association, and who could serve in either a part-time or full-time capacity.
6.    Each SCA will build up statutory capital by: (a) collecting membership fees; (b)
mobilizing savings; and (c) charging a fee from each sub-borrower. Initial membership
fee will be kept low (25 to 100 Lei) in order to allow poorer farmers to participate.
Savings mobilization will start as soon as the law on Savings and Credit Associations is
ratified by parliament. Starting in the first year of operation, each SCA will guarantee at
least 7% of the outstanding loans with its statutory capital; this guarantee amount will be
increased over time and is expected to reach 17% by year 5 (see Table I for details).
D.   Lending Operations and Savings Mobilization
7.    The SCA Board selects borrowers from among the members who are known in
the village for their trustworthiness and who request a loan for an income creating
activity. All loan requests are presented to the administrative council and undergo
appropriate credit risk evaluation. The appropriate procedures were developed under the
pilot project. Priority is given at the beginning to relatively small size short term loans.



3                                                   Project Description
Farmers express priority for financing inputs for agriculture with loans up to US $1,000
per farmer. Higher amounts and medium term loans (mainly for machinery) will be
granted starting in the second year, provided the SCA has a good repayment record.
8.    Loans will be guaranteed by social pressure for small loans and by collateral for
more important loans. Based on the principles of mutual-guarantee financial
organizations, the new institution will provide simplicity of access to financial services
and private ownership. In principle, a group guarantee would be sufficient for small
loans, whereas the administrative council of the SCA will ask for other forms of collateral
to complement the group guaranty for medium-term loans. Social pressure between
members and a reasonable credit policy are expected to keep repayment delays and
unrecoverable loans to a very low level, without impact on the viability of the institution.
The SCA statutes do not allow the allocation of new loans to a borrowing member if even
a single repayment of this member is delayed. In turn, the RFC statutes do not allow the
allocation of a new loan to an SCA, if this SCA is late in repaying its loan to RFC.
9.    Savings mobilization is also a major objective under this project. At present the
savings capacity of the farmers is low, due to economic crisis. However, it is anticipated
that SCAs will start savings mobilization during the second year of their operations. In
the longer run local savings mobilization could become an important resource for credit.
E.   Lending Terms
10.   The interest rate for loans from an SCA to their members or for savings deposits
by members will be set by the general assembly of the SCA. The interest rate for loans
covers resource costs, transaction costs, and risk costs, and will be positive in real terms.
The IDA credit line will be made available to RFC at the NBM auction rate for 90 day
funds (currently about 16% - 20% per annum). RFC will be given up to 5% spread to
cover its expenses and thus the loan to an SCA will be 21% - 23% for short term loans of
up to one year duration. Medium term loans (maximum three years duration) will carry a
further 2% interest charge. SCAs will be free to add a charge (projected to be 2.4%) to
cover their operating costs. The established interest rate is fixed for the whole term of the
loan. Short-term loans are expected to be repaid at the end of the year, usually at the time
of harvest. Interest and principal for medium-term loans will be payable semi-annually.
All loans will be in Lei, with the government bearing the foreign exchange risks.
F.    Credit Risk Management
11.   Each SCA will be required to make provisions for a "risk fund" to cover the
repayment default by an individual member. Use of the risk fund will be deterrnined by
the SCAs' prudential regulations. It will amount to at least 7% of the outstanding loan
amount during the SCA's first year in operation and increase to 17% by the fourth year.
For all borrowing from RFC, each association will be required to contribute into RFC's
capital an amount equivalent to at least 5% of the outstanding loan arnount . This
contribution to RFC will be counted as part of the association's risk fund. In order to



Annex 2                                                           4
reduce the risk of loan default, the SCAs will be encouraged to diversify lending for a
variety of activities. Each SCA will attempt to develop a credit portfolio consisting of
different uses of the loans for agricultural and non-agricultural purposes, which will be
discussed with, and supervised by, RFC's credit officers.
G.   Prudential Rules
12.   Under the prudential rules governing the SCAs' operations, an SCA is required to
extend credit only to its members, and is forbidden from investing in shares except in
RFC or in their SCA. An SCA may not invest in real estate operations, except for its own
sake or through acquisitions made in the course of debt recovery.
13.   Each SCA will maintain equity at a level that will cover 5% of all outstanding
short-term loans, 8% of all outstanding medium-term loans, and 100% of fixed or
intangible assets and bad debts. SCAs accepting deposits from members will maintain a
sufficient level of liquidity to maintain receivable assets at 125% of payable assets.
14.   The maximum amount of a single investment by an SCA shall not exceed 100%
of its equity or 10% of its total outstanding loan portfolio, whichever is less. The
aggregate credit to members belonging to one family shall not exceed 20%/0 of the SCA's
equity or 10% of the loan portfolio, whichever is less.
15.   Each SCA will maintain general risk provisions equivalent to 1% of outstanding
short-term credits and 2% of medium-term credits. These will be adjusted every year to
ensure that the provisions are adequate to cover 30% of debts overdue for 2 months, 75%
of doubtful debts (2-12 months), and 100% for irrecoverable debts (overdue for more
than 12 months).
16.   With the assistance of MMA, each SCA will adopt a standard accounting system
and prepare quarterly reports showing the status of Risk Weighted Assets coverage and
liquidity rate requirements and annual reports providing detailed information about the
SCA's compliance with the prudential rules.
H.   Flow of Funds
17.   Each SCA will open an account in a commercial bank and will receive fimds from
RFC in agreed tranches. The commercial bank will disburse the funds to the SCA on
behalf of RFC and will receive re-flows (interest and repayments) from the SCA.
L.    Business Plan
18.   The SCA concept is new in Moldova and it is therefore prudent to provide
substantial training to the new SCAs through the MMA, or other qualified NGOs and
training institutes. As most of the SCAs manage their operations with only limited
financial compensation, it is important to ensure that the management of the SCAs does
not overextend itself.



L                                                   Project Description
19.   The business plan for an individual SCA has been prepared with the following
assumptions:
*  The number of members in each SCA will be 40 in the year of formation and
gradually increase to 180 in the fifth year;
*  The reserve will increase from 7% of the loans outstanding in the first year to
17% in year five;
* Savings mobilization will start in year two and will increase from an average
of US $25 per member to US $90 per member; and
* The average short-term loan by an SCA will be US $500, gradually
increasing to US $700. The average medium-term loan will be US $1,500
gradually increasing to US $2,300.
J.    Financial Position of an SCA
20.   The projected income statement and balance sheet of a typical SCA, and for the
universe of all SCAs created under this project, are in Attachments 1 and 2. Even on the
basis of an interest spread of only 2.4%, these projections indicate that the SCAs will be
in a position to service their debts, and also satisfy the norms relating to capital adequacy,
liquidity and provisioning prescribed in the prudential rules. This is, of course, possible
only because the SCAs, as organizations run entirely by volunteers, have minimal
administration costs. It is reasonable to assume that the SCAs would recruit part-time
staff when the number of members reaches a level which makes it unmanageable through
only volunteer efforts. When this happens, in all probability, the new members will be
encouraged to organize themselves under a separate SCA. Also, in actual practice, the
SCAs will charge in interest spread higher than the 2.4% assumed in these financial
projections.
K.   Risks and Challenges
21.   The pilot program was judged to be very successful, with farmers exhibiting
strong support for the SCA concept. Demand for individual loans was examined carefully
by the councils of the associations who uniformly selected only serious investment
projects for their first lending program. Nevertheless, the present transition period
presents the following risks to the financial viability of private farming in Moldova and,
thus, indirectly for the SCAs:
(a) payment by State enterprises for agricultural products are frequently made in kind,
thereby giving rise to delays in the timely repayment of credits;
(b) land registration and law enforcement remains rudimentary. Legal enforcement of
contracts is especially difficult for private farmers; and
(c) agricultural support services are still not targeted to meet the needs of private
farmers.



Table 1                           Balance Sheet of a Typical SCA
ASSUMPTIONS (in US $)
Nominal members share                                               5
Interest rate eamed on RFC share                               15.00%
Interest rate eamed on placements into bank                    18.00%
Interest rate paid on time deposits                            18.00%
Interest rate paid on extemal credit line                      23.00%
Interest rate eamed on loans to member                         25.40%
Fixed costs for the association during YI and Y2                   50
Fixed costs for the association for Y3 to Y5                      200
BALANCE SHEET (in US $)
LIABILITIES                   YI        Y2       Y3        Y4        Y5
Number of member                               40        80       120       150       180
Risk Fund (% loan outstanding)                7%        9%       11%       13%       1 7%
Share capital (nominal share & preferred)    1,400    5,200    12,024    22,254    34,932
Statutory reserve (eamed profits)               0        12       482     1,344     3,110
Extemal credit line borrowed                20,000    56,720   101,502   148,958   173,687
Time deposit (Average per member)               0        25        40        60        90
Total savings                                   0     2,000     4,800     9,000    16,200
Transformation rate Time deposit               0%      60%       60%       60%       60%
Transformation rate Capital                    0%      40%       50%       60%       70%
Credit allocated on internal resources          0     3,280     8,898    19,042    35,113
Total liabilities                           21,400    63,932   118,808   181,556   227,929
ASSETS
Participaton into capital of RFC (% loan outst.)  5%    5%        5%        5%        5%
Intangible assets                            1,000    3,000     5,520     8,400    10,440
Average outstanding per Short term credit     500       600       650       700       700
Average outstanding per Medium term loan        0     1,500     1,800     2,100     2,300
Total number medium term loans (% member)     0%       10%       15%       20%       20%
Outstanding amount of short term credit    20,000    48,000    78,000   105,000   126,000
Outstanding amount of medium term credit        0    12,000    32,400    63,000    82,800
Total loan outstanding                     20,000    60,000   110,400   168,000   208,800
Short term placements into banks              400       932     2,888     5,156     8,689
Total Asset                                21,400    63,932   118,808   1811,556   227,929
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
Financial expenses
Interest paid on Savings                        0       360       864     1,620     2,916
Interests paid on extemal credit lines       4,600    13,046    23,345    34,260    39,948
Provisions on loan portfolio (1% ST, 2% MT)   200       720     1,428     2,310     2,916
Total financial expenses                     4,800    14,126    25,637    38,190    45,780
Financial income
Interest eamed on RFC share                   150       450       828     1,260     1,566
Interest eamed on placements into banks        72       168       520       928     1,564
Interest eamed on loans to members          5,040    15,240    28,042    42,672    53,035
Total financial income                      5,262    15,858    29,389    44,860    56,165
Gross banking profit                          462     1,732     3,752     6,670    10,385
SCA operating costs (% loan outstanding)    2.00%     2.00%    2.00%     2.00%     2.00%
ariable costs for association                 400     1,200     2,208     3,360     4,176
Fixed costs for association                    50        50      200       200       200
Net profit                                     12       482     1,344     3,110     6,009



Table 2           Developmental Balance Sheet of the Federation of SCAs
1997      1998       1999       2000       2001       2002
Number of associations in year 1      23        23         23         23         23         23
Number of associations in year 2                 50        50         50         50         50
Number of associations in year 3                           80         80         80         80
Number of associations in year 4                                      100        100        100
Number of associations in year 5      ___               _                        100        100
Total SCAs                            23        73         153        253        353        353
Number of member per SCA             40          80        120        150        180        180
Total number of members              920       3,840      9,960      19,850     33,240    45,140
BALANCE SHEET (US $)
LIABILITIES               1997       1998       1999       2000      2001       2002
hare capital (nominal share & preferred)  32,200    189,600    648,552  1,669,042  3,398,056  4,729,320
tatutory reserve (eamed profits)          0      1,196     13,690     59,180    182,497    449,434
Capital adequacy ratio                 7.00%      8.02%      9.28%     10.68%     12.77%     14.83%
External credit line borrowed        460,000  2,304,560  6,770,546 15,038,741  25,234,871 30,751,204
otal savings                              0     46,000    210,400    607,000  1,406,600  2,010,000
redit allocated on intemal resources      0     75,440    368,654  1,145,259  2,799,529  4,168,796
Otai liabilities                    492,200  2,541,356  7,643,188 17,373,963 30,222,024 37,939,958
ASSETS
Intangible assets                     23,000    119,000    356,960    809,200  1,401,720  1,746,000
Outstanding of short term credit     460,000  2,104,000  5,794,000 12,155,000 19,188,000 22,500,000
Outstanding of medium term credit          0    276,000  1,345,200  4,029,000  8,846,400 12,420,000
Total loan outstanding               460,000  2,380,000  7,139,200 16,184,000 28,034,400 34,920,000
hort term placements Into banks       9,200     41,436    145,028    377,563    781,904  1,135,747
otal Asset                          492,200  2,540,436  7,641,188 17,370,763 30,218,024 37,801,747
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
Financial expenses
Interest paid on Savings                   0      8,280     37,872    109,260    253,188    361,800
Interests paid on extemal credit lines  105,800    530,049   1,557,226  3,458,910  5,804,020  7,072,777
Provisions on loan portfolio (1% ST, 2% MT)  4,600  26,560  84,844    202,130    368,808    473,400
Total financial expenses             110,400    564,889  1,679,942  3,770,300  6,426,016  7,907,977
Financial income
nterest eamed on RFC share             3,450     17,850     53,544    121,380    210,258    261,900
nterest eamed on placements into banks  1,656     7,458     26,105     67,961    140,743    204,434
Interest earned on loans to members  116,840    604j520  1,813,357  4,110,736  7,120,738  8,869,680
Total financial income               121,946    629,828   1,893,006  4,300,077  7,471,738  9,336,014
Gross banking profit                  11,546     64,940    213,064    529,777  1,045,722  1,428,038
arable costs                           9,200     47,600    142,784    323,680    560,688    698,40
ixed costs                            1,150      3,650     11,100     23,6001    35,600    46,00
Net profit                             1,196     13,690     59,180    182,497    449,434    683,638



Annex 2                                                             8
Moldovan Microfinance Alliance
A. Objectives
22.   The Moldovan Microfinance Alliance (MMA), in collaboration with RFC, will
promote the formation of SCAs and a microfmance system for rural areas of Moldova.
Sustainability and the capacity to reach a significant number of private farmers and aral
entrepreneurs with appropriate financial services are the main objectives of this approach.
As a private institution in partnership with RFC and village-level SCAs, MMA will
undertake the following tasks:
a) Inform and train decision makers with interest in Microfinance: Government
Members, legislators, public and private administrators, banks, research and
training institutions, civil society representatives, professional organizations,
associations and villages.
b) Provide practical information to initiators of SCAs, especially on:
*  the principals of organization of SCAs and their network;
*  the legal framework;
*  the procedures of registration and licensing; and
*  the partnership with RFC as refinancing institution and the procedures for
submission of loan requests.
c) Provide training on all issues related to the start-up of SCAs such as:
*  accounting and financial management
* prudential rules
*  capitalization
*  savings mobilization
*  loan appraisal and evaluation of investment projects
*  loan recovery
*  communication
*  collaboration with other institutions.
d) Provide accounting services to SCAs:
*  Develop an appropriate accounting system for SCAs;
*  Monitoring of the SCAs' accounting and support for the production of
financial reports; and
*  Establishment of the accounting system of the network.



9                                                     Project Description
e) Give advice and provide support in all other fields related to the activities of
SCAs.
f) Support the strengthening of the network and the creation of a federation of
SCAs.
g) Prepare a monitoring and evaluation system of the existing network and
prepare studies for its extension to new rayons and villages.
h) Prepare and edit publications and technical manuals on SCAs and related
issues.
23.   Develop accompanying measures, particularly in the fields of agricultural
technologies and prevention of negative impacts of the financed activities on the
environment .
B. Statute
24.   MMA is a local non-governmental, non-profit organization registered under the
Moldovan law on public associations. Its members are representatives of Moldovan
SCAs and the private donors supporting MMA: FIDES, Open Society Institute, and
Woman's World Banking. Their collaboration stems from the recognition of the
important role microfmance can play in terms of creation of jobs and fostering
investment, especially in a transition economy. Women's World Banking's support is
additionally linked to the importance of access to financial services for rural women.
C. Organization and Staff
25.   The activities of MMA will be organized through a head office located in
Chisinau, and regional development officers, who will provide assistance to SCAs at the
village level. The head office will be in charge of overall management, relations with
institutional partners, publication, and support for regional activities. The staff plan for
1997/98 provides for the hiring and training 10 development officers (four in 1997 and
six in 1998) and about five head office staff members (director of MMA, assistant to the
director, accountant, trainer, secretary).
26.   The staff plan is based on the assumption that one credit officer can manage 10
existing SCAs and initiate 10 new SCAs per year. The staff hired and trained in 1997/98
will thus have the full capacity for the creation of the 1531 SCAs foreseen for the end of
1999. All staff members will undergo intensive training in Moldova and abroad. FIDES
will provide technical assistance to MMA, train the staff and help to develop the
operational procedures.
Only 130 of the 153 SCAs would receive credit funds through the LIL. The other SCAs could
receive funds from a follow-on project or external resources.



Annex 2                                                            10
D. Work Program
27.   The joint work program of MMA and RFC includes the creation, support, and
financing to a growing number of SCAs.
1997  1998  1999  2000
Number of existing SCAs   23    73    153   253
Number of members       1,200 3,840 9,960  19,850
(See also footnote 1)
28.   During its first six months of activity (October 1997 to March 1998), MMA will
support 11 existing SCAs and create 29 new SCAs. In parallel additional staff members
will be hired and trained.
E. Budget
29.   MMA will be funded by private donors. WWB, Open Society Foundation and
FIDES have committed substantial funds to MMA, covering the program's costs during
1998 and 1999, including start-up investments and technical assistance. Starting in the
third year, MMA is also expected to earn a fee from RFC for services rendered. A
Memorandum of Understanding between GOM, National Bank of Moldova, World Bank,
WWB, Open Society Foundation and FIDES has been drafted, fixing the objectives and
principles of action of MMA. GTZ will join the other donors at a later date with an
additional grant for technical assistance and equipment.
30.   MMA's principal partners have agreed on the following budget for the first two
years:
1997          1998           1999
New SCA created                           23            50             80
Total SCAs                                23            73             153
Operating Costs (US $)                                   136,000        146,000
Investment Costs (US $)                                  115,000         27,000
Technical Assistance and Training (US $)                 171,000        171,000
Total                                                    422,000        344,000
(See also footnote 1)



11                                                   Project Description
PROJECT COMPONENT 2 - ESTABLISHMENT OF A REGULATORY
BODY OF THE SCAs
Challenge: Determining the role, powers, administrative location, funding, and
organization of the supervisor of associations.
31.   Recommendation: The primary role of the supervisor of associations should be to
ensure the safe and sound operation of SCAs. To that end it must have the power to
examine the operations of each SCA. All records of each SCA must be available to the
supervisor for examination at any time. It must have the power to compel the production
of records. The supervisor must also have the authority to establish all record keeping
and reporting requirements applicable to SCAs. Other than controlling the currency in
Moldova, the role and powers of the supervisor of SCAs should be similar to the role and
powers of the National Bank of Moldova.
32.   Several options exist regarding the administrative location of the supervisor of
SCAs. It could be established within an existing ministry or as a separate entity. Both
models exist in different parts of the world. The growth of the SCAs and their potential
impact on the economy of Moldova will be a determining factor. During the initial phase
of development the costs associated with supervising SCAs will probably necessitate
assigning the supervisory functions to an existing ministry. Given that the RFPIU is
aligned with the Ministry of Finance it seems natural that the supervisory role originally
be assigned to the Ministry of Finance. Perhaps the RFPIU's role could be expanded
beyond the implementation of the Rural Finance Project to include the supervisory
functions. Then in later phases, the creation of a separate agency, or aligning the
supervisory role with the role of the National Bank of Moldova could be explored. As
the SCA system becomes established it will have a profound impact upon the country's
economy. Thus, the state's interest in the safe and sound operation of the SCA system
will not only remain, but will increase.
33.   The funding of the supervisor of SCAs will be quite problematic during the initial
years. First, it is difficult to assess what the costs may total. Several funding options or
combinations of options exist. One option is to seek grant money or money from the
project funds to cover the operating costs of the supervisor. Another option is to obtain
some general tax revenues from the government. Still another option is to assess each
SCA a fee based upon assets under management, amounts on deposits, loan amounts, or
any combination of the three. Another option is to allocate a portion of each loan to the
supervisory function, which is then paid back by the borrower by attaching a small
margin to the loan rate. Ultimately, the SCA system should achieve an economy of scale
that will allow it to fund the supervisor entirely. Until then, the economic realities facing



Annex 2                                                            12
the farmers make that impractical. Initially, funding may best be achieved by combining
the options, with the lion's share coming from grants. However, for long term success,
the government and the farmers should bear some of the burden initially, even though it
is disproportionately small.
34.  Initially the supervisor of the SCAs should have the following positions:
Director, who directs all aspects of the supervisor and interacts with other
governmental bodies including the parliament, the prime minister, and the
other ministries. In addition, the director should regularly interact with the
officers of the SCAs. The director should also maintain relations with the
World Bank and other sources of funding.
Deputy Director/Chief Budget Officer, who manages personnel, budget, and
examination and training schedules. This position could also assist the
director in maintaining key contacts. It could also provide examination
support as well.
Examiner, who, on a regular basis, visits the SCAs to review the records,
legal compliance, and financial condition of each SCA. The examiner should
make a report on the condition of each SCA at least on an annual basis. He
should rate the performance of each SCA using the CAMEL system used by
the National Bank of Moldova. Initially that rating system may need to be
adapted on a very basic level. Over time it would become more
comprehensive as the sophistication of the SCAs improve. The examiner
should receive ongoing training, much of which may be able to be provided
by the National Bank. After the examiner has become familiar with the
duties, it may be helpful to have a foreign expert (perhaps a retired examiner
from a state or federal supervisor) come to Moldova for four to six weeks to
work side-by-side with the examiner. Most of the visit should be spent out in
the SCAs conducting examinations and preparing reports. As the number of
SCAs increases, more examiners should be hired and trained.
Trainer, who should visit the SCAs on a regular basis to train the SCA's
officers and control committees. To avoid potential conflicts this position
must be separate from that of the examiner. However, information could be
shared through the director or deputy director. The need for the position
should only last for the first several years. A Federation of SCAs should
eventually assume the training function. This position will be provided by
MMA.



13                                                    Pro]ect DescriDtion
PROJECT COMPONENT 3 - ESTABLISHMENT OF THE RuRAL FNANCE
CORPORATION (RFC)
A. Background
35.   RFC will be established in December 1997, as an onlending institution to village
level Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs) that are being set up in Moldova. The
SCAs are expected to become an important source of credit to small private farms and
rural enterprises in the country. At the start, RFC will confine its role to be a conduit for
loans from IDA and other multilateral financial institutions, possibly IFAD, to SCAs.
RFC's assistance will be targeted to the SCAs that are being established with the
assistance of the Moldova Microfinance Alliance (MMA) or any other Development
Center that may be acceptable to RFC and IDA (See Annex 2 - Project Component 1
for a description of SCAs and MMA).
B. Ownership and Capitalization
36.   RFC will be a non-banking financial institution registered as a joint-stock
company. To ensure that RFC will be majority owned by SCAs, it has been decided that
Government of Moldova (GOM) will not hold more than 20% of voting shares. The
statutes of RFC stipulate that no single SCA will hold at any time more than 5% of the
voting shares. Each SCA wishing to become a shareholder of RFC will pay in share
capital of about US $500. As some 23 SCAs have been set up at the time of RFC's
registration, RFC's voting shares will be equivalent to US $14,375 held by SCAs
($11,500) and GOM ($2,875). This will gradually increase as new SCAs are created. By
the end of the fourth year in 2001, the paid in share capital is expected to be $225,000.
37.   Additionally, each SCA which wishes to borrow from RFC will be required to
invest in RFC - in the form of privileged shares - an amount equivalent to 5% of the
outstanding loans from RFC. Thus, the value of privileged shares by 2001 is expected to
be about $750,000.
38.   GOM has agreed to grant RFC quasi equity in the form of a low interest loan of
US $2 million (from the IDA Credit) repayable over 35 years, including a 10 year grace
period.
C. Corporate Governance
39.   Governing Bodies. RFC will have three governing bodies. The General
Assembly of Shareholders, meeting usually once a year - and more often if requested by
at least 10% of the shareholders -- votes on all important matters including distribution of
profits, election of the members of the Council of the Corporation and the Censor



Annex 2                                                           14
committee. The Council, which is the equivalent of the Board of Directors, is responsible
for policy fornulation and supervision of RFC's activities including operational policies,
prudential rules and approval of budgets. Initially the council will have five members
elected by the General Assembly, four of whom will represent the SCAs; the fifth will be
a nominee of GOM. Although the decision on GOM nomination will be taken by the
Ministry of Privatization, it is expected that the GOM nominee will be a senior official of
the Ministry of Finance which is the government agency responsible for supervision of
RFC's activities, so long as RFC has significant borrowings from GOM. The Censor
Committee consisting of three members elected by the General Assembly is responsible
for financial control of RFC. A General Director, who is the President of the
Administration Council, handles the day-to-day administration of RFC. The Board
appoints the President for a four-year tern with the approval of the General Assembly. A
Credit committee composed of the President and senior staff in RFC takes all credit
decisions.
40.   Audit. The accounting and reporting systems of RFC will be kept according to
regulations of the Ministry of Finance. RFC will monitor quarterly financial information
of SCAs and in turn, RFC will submit to GOM and IDA quarterly financial statements
and management reports on its operations including liquidity and arrears. RFC's
accounts will be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA.
D. Organization
41.   The developmental work relating to SCAs, including the preparation of their
quarterly financial statements and operational reports will be handled by MMA or similar
developmental centers that may be set up in the future. Moreover, RFC will function as a
loan wholesaler and its credit operations including appraisal and supervision will be
directed to SCAs and not the thousands of small farmers and rural businesses. Therefore,
RFC will not need large staff. The initial organization will consist of the General
Director, his deputy, two credit officers, an accountant and a suitable number of support
staff. Two credit officers and an accountant/auditor will be added in each of the next
three years. An advisor, who can train the credit officers and the accounting staff, will be
recruited initially for a period of 6 months starting in January 1998. A suitable candidate
who has many years of experience in rural credits has been identified. The cost of the
advisor is being funded from PHRD.
E. Lending Terms
42.   RFC will on-lend funds made available by GOM from IDA Credit in Lei with a
spread of up to 5% to cover its transaction costs, and to build up its reserves. From Year
3 onward, RFC will utilize about 1% from the 5% spread to cover the costs of MMA.
RFC should be in a position to reduce its spread by a further 1% from year 5.



15                                                   Project Description
43.   The interest rates for loans to SCAs will be established twice a year, in March and
September. The established interest rate is fixed for the whole term of the loan. Short-
term loans made for working capital purposes are expected to be repaid with interest by
the end of the year - usually at the time of harvest. Medium-term loans made for
acquisition of assets will be made for a maximum of three years, with interest and
principal installments payable semi-annually.
F. Credit Risk-Management
44.   Each SCA is expected to make only working capital loans (for periods less than
12 months) in the first year of operation. Introduction of medium term loans (for periods
up to 36 months) would depend on the repayment record of the SCA. Not more than
10% of an SCA's membership would receive medium term loans in the second year, and
depending on experience, this figure could rise to 20% of the membership by the fifth
year, depending on the percentage of total outstanding loans. In line with the practices of
other refinancing organizations, RFC's evaluation will focus on the operations and
financial position of the SCA and not of the individual borrowers of the SCA. However,
in the first two or three years, RFC's staff will review all medium term loans to verify the
justification for the loan amounts and the adequacy of cash generation for debt servicing.
After one or two years, if the experience is satisfactory, RFC's staff will review only
loans above a certain size. This limit would vary from one SCA to another depending on
the maturity and financial position of the SCA.
G. Prudential Rules
45.   RFC will require SCAs to contribute an amount equivalent to 5% of their
outstanding borrowings in the form of non-voting shares in RFC.
46.   For each SCA, RFC will establish a ceiling of loans which will take into account
the number of members of the SCA. The amount of loans granted to a single SCA will
not exceed (i) 100% of RFC's equity, or (ii) $250,000, whichever is lower. Additionally,
no single SCA will receive more than 10% of the total outstanding loans of RFC, from
the second year of RFC's operation.
47.   RFC will maintain its equity at a level that is adequate to cover 5% of all
outstanding short term loans, 8% of all outstanding medium term loans, and 100% fixed
or intangible assets and bad debts. That portion of GOM's subordinated debt which is
repayable after a period of 10 years will be regarded as equity for the purpose of
determining capital adequacy.



Annex 2                                                           16
48.   RFC will maintain general risk provisions equivalent to 1% of outstanding short
term loans and 2% of outstanding medium term loans. These provisions will be adjusted
depending on the performance of the portfolio. RFC will build adequate provisions to
cover a minimum of 30% of loans classified as overdue (delay of 2 months), 75% of
doubtful loans (delay between 2-12 months) and 100% of irrecoverable loans (overdue
for more than 12 months).
49.   SCA eligibility criteria. Only SCAs that meet the following eligibility criteria can
receive a credit from the RFC:
*  the SCA has been registered in accordance with the SCA Law;
*  the SCA has made all necessary contributions to the capital of RFC in
accordance with the RFC Prudential Rules and Statutes;
*  the SCA has received training from MMA or another NGO acceptable to
IDA;
*  the SCA is in compliance with the SCA Prudential Rules;
*  the SCA is located in a rural area in Moldova.
H. Portfolio Management by RFC
50.   Each SCA would approach RFC, usually twice a year, with a loan application,
indicating the amount of loan requested, the number of borrowers and the desired timing
of the loan. SCAs will typically release funds to their members in two or three tranches.
Evaluation of individual loan applications is the responsibility of the SCA administrative
board, although an RFC credit officer may be present at the meeting in which the loans
are being analyzed to confirm that the screening by the SCA is in accordance with the
established rules. MMA will assist the SCA in the preparation of quarterly financial
statements and other operational reports. RFC's credit officers will monitor the
accounting practices and general performance of the SCA including the debt service
performance. It is expected that RFC's credit officers will visit each SCA at least three
times a year.
1. Flow of Funds
51.   RFC will enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with GOM under which it will
obtain a maximum of $2.6 million of project funds for a period of fifteen years, and $2
million of project funds as subordinated loan for a period of 30 years. RFC will collect,
evaluate and approve loan applications from SCAs and present a disbursement request to
the PIU, which will authorize the release of funds from the Project Special Account.
Interest payments by RFC would be deposited into the special account at semi-annual
intervals. To ensure that the funds made available by GOM are utilized by RFC for the
purpose intended, the subsidiary loan agreement will stipulate that during March-
November of each year, RFC's outstanding loan portfolio should be at least 90% of the
amount RFC owes to GOM. RFC would be restricted to invest any surplus cash with the
National Bank of Moldova and/or Government bonds.



17                                                  Project Description
52.   The SCAs will receive funds from RFC in agreed tranches, through an account
opened in a bank acceptable to RFC. RFC will not disburse loan funds in cash; nor will it
disburse funds to individual members of an SCA.
J. Business Plan
53.   The SCA concept is very new in Moldova. It is therefore desirable to restrict the
benefits of this operation initially to those SCAs that have received training in credit
appraisal and accounting from MMA. RFC itself is a new entity and until its staff gains
experience it would be prudent to limit RFC's lending to modest amounts, in order not to
overextend RFC's management and the absorptive capacity of the SCAs.
54.   The business plan of the RFC has been prepared with the following assumptions:
a The number of members of each SCA will be 40 in the year of formation,
gradually increasing to 180 in the fifth year.
s In addition to the 23 SCAs that are in existence by December 1997, 17 more
will be created - for a total of 40 - by March 1998, in time for the planting
season when the demand for working capital loans is at a peak. An additional
33 will be created by December 1998.
3 80 new SCAs will be created in 1999 (and 100 in each of the next two years
for a total of 353 by the year 2001) when the project is completed.
* The average short-term loan by an SCA will be $500, gradually increasing to
$700. The average medium term loan will be $1,500 increasing to $2,300 by
year 5.
55.   Based on these assumptions, RFC's business plan envisages the following
"demand" profile from the SCAs:
___________________________________    1998     1999     2000    2001
Number of SCAs (at year-end)           73       153     253      353
Number of members                     3,840    9,960   19,850   33,240
Outstanding short-term credit ($000)  2,104    5,794   12,155   19,188
Outstanding medium term credit ($000)  276     1,345    4,029    8,846
Total loans outstanding ($000)        2,308    7,139   16,184   28,034
56.   RFC is expected to be the principal source of funding to the SCAs, though
commercial banks using their own resources may also elect to lend to SCAs. As the total
amount available to RFC and the commercial banks from IDA is $4.6 million, the
financial projections have been made on the assumption that RFC will meet 75% of the
credit requirements of SCAs. RFC is expected to utilize the total amount of $4.6 million



Annex 2                                                             18
by March/April 1999 when the planting season for the year will be in full swing. If this
LIL Credit is successful, the Bank would immediately finance a follow-up operation.
The projections assume that RFC would be able to obtain external financing in the outer
years on terms similar to the current IDA Credit.
K. Financial Position of RFC
57.   The projected income statements and balance sheets of RFC for the years 1 98-
2002 are attached. The projections are based on the following assumptions:
*  RFC's cost of funds will be a rate equivalent to National Bank of Moldova's 6
month option rate - taken at 16% for the purpose of these projections - plus a 2%
spread as loan guarantee and administration fee for GOM.
*  Interest rate which RFC charges to SCAs will be 23%, consisting of 18% GOM
lending rate plus a 5% spread to RFC during the first four years. The calculations
for the fifth year assume a reduced spread of 4%.
*  1% from RFC's spread will be utilized from the third year onwards towards the
cost of MMA services, such as developmental assistance for setting up SCAs,
training SCA board members in credit appraisal and follow-up, loan collections,
accounting and MIS assistance to SCAs and RFC. Although most of these
services are provided by MMA to the SCAs, it is cumbersome to bill and collect
the charges from more than 300 SCAs. It would be cost-effective for RFC to
include these charges in its interest rate spread. The allocation of a part of the
spread for MMA services is being done from the third year because Soros
Foundation and World Women's Banking are providing grants to cover MMA
costs in the first two years.
  All calculations of interest income and cost of funds are based on average
outstanding amounts.
*  Income from bank deposits are assumed to be 15%
*  Income tax payable is calculated at 32% of profits.
*  Dividend on share capital (including non-voting shares) is calculated at 20%.
58.   The projections indicate that RFC's financial position will be satisfactory from the
beginning. Because of the $2.0 million quasi-equity in the form of interest-free debt from
GOM and the capitalization strategy in terms of which each SCA is required to invest 5%
of its borrowings from RFC in non-voting shares, RFC's debt-equity ratio by the end of
the year 2001 will be a comfortable 3.8:1. For the same reasons, the capital adequacy
norm in year 2001 is 21%, much higher than what RFC's prudential rules dictate (5% of
short-term loans and 8% of medium-term loans, which.translates to a capital adequacy
norm of 6%). This conservative gearing is intended to enable RFC to enlarge its lending
volumes substantially in later years, without requiring large capital infusion from SCAs,
whose membership is composed, after all, of small farmers with limited means. This will
also enable RFC to service its debt comfortably and reduce its interest rate spread
gradually.



19                                                   Project Description
59.   All RFC loans are made to SCAs that work on the principle of mutual guarantee
of their members. In the event of default, RFC will have access to the Risk Fund, which
each SCA is required to create under the prudential rules for SCAs. The Risk Fund
would amount to 13% of the SCAs' outstanding portfolio by the fourth year of operation.
For these reasons, the default risk for RFC is expected to be manageable. In RFC's
financial projections, provision has been made for write-off of bad debts aggregating to
$0.26 million in the first four years, equivalent to 1% of outstanding short-term loans and
2% of medium-term loans in 2001. IDA will reserve the right to stop disbursing the
Credit if more than 10% of RFC's loans are overdue by more than 60 days.
L. Risks and Challenges
60.   The typical risks associated with rural credit institutions are the high
administrative costs and default risks. The three-tier organization envisaged for this
project is intended to mitigate these risks. The MMA will provide continuous technical
support in the form of training, accounting and MIS services to SCAs. These village
level financial organizations, which are the primary lenders, are managed through
volunteer effort of its members, resulting in only nominal administration costs. They rely
more on the guarantee of social pressure of the entire membership for loan recovery,
rather than on the traditional collateral, though the latter will also be available for
medium-term loans. As a wholesaler, RFC will only deal with SCAs and therefore does
not need large staff. All these features are expected to result in low transaction costs to
make the lending scheme viable.
61.  In the second year of its operation, the project would have covered some 10,000
beneficiaries, which would be quite an impressive achievement. It should however be
remembered that this is less than 6% of the existing, but rapidly growing small farmer
community in Moldova. The organizational design and financial structure of RFC have
been constructed in such a manner that it can extend its operations fairly quickly, should
its operations in the first two years confirm the viability of this concept.



Annex 2                                                              20
Attachment 1
Rural Finance Corporation - Projected Income Statements
(US $000)
1998            1999            2000            2001             2002
Interest on loans to SCAs                      238             784            1,880           3,503            4,752
Income from bank deposits                       28              40               48              68              97
~Goss Revenue ~g   t,      ,-'                 
Cost of borrowing                                -             241             987            2,160            3,213
Provision for bad debts                         19              41               81             121              63
Administrative costs                           152             194             230              270             285
MMA costs                                        -                -              80             150             215
3Profit lifore,b /R+f'tax
Income Tax                                      33             111              176             278             343
Prt<ofit       i          ,       >, ,M , 7I,,~7   ,i                                4,K>        . ,.?  > *W,,,A  
Dividend                                                                        160             252             300
vBI,alance pro fit ,c,arried to res,erves , , , ........... ,, 2'        . _     1           ~



21                                                   Project Descrition
Attachment 2
Rural Finance Corporation - Projected Balance Sheets
(US $000)
ASSETS                                       1998            1999           2000            2001            2002
Short-term loans to SCAs                     1,520          4,130           8,465          13,135         15,400
Medium-term loans to SCAs                     205             960           2,795          6,065           8,600
tal lons               2 -              ft --                                                   %  
Cash and bank deposits                        227             296            337             604             758
Fixed assets                                   43              53             63              68              96
Less Depreciation                              21              34             45              58              70
Net-Fixed issets                                      sr', >'                                           1  ,A
LIABILITIES
Subordinated debt from GOM          1,700          2,000           2,000          2,000           2,000
Other debt from GOM                -               2,675           8,300           15,700         20,000
'Total Debts    -1,100                              40.- ''  < 2716A9"                            A 7
Ordinary share capital             46              96              159            221             221
Non-voting share capital            86             254             563            960             1,200
Dutch grant                         80             80              80              80             80
TotalShaeCapital                   212 '431 /                       0               1             i,s(i;
Retained earings                   62       ,      299 '513                       853             1,283
r        R                          _       .



Annex 2                                                                22
Attachment 3
PROPOSALS FOR PRUDENTIAL RULES FOR RURAL FINANCE
CORPORATION
L. Authorized financial operations
The Rural Finance Corporation (hereinafter RFC) will be authorized to perforn the following
operations:
1. To lend to Savings and Credit Associations, trained and selected by Microfinance
Alliance Moldova or any other development center acceptable to RFC;
2. To borrow and place funds in its own interest and in interest of its clients;
3. To have access to financial market in Moldova;
4. To sign insurance contracts in view of coverage of risks connected with its activity;
5. Acquire assets for its own operations within the norms set by its Statutes.
6. Real estate investments exclusively for its own sake;
7. Sales of collaterals, in cases when loans are partially secured by collateral.
II. Lending conditions for Savings and Credit Associations (SCA)
1. SCAs must be registered by the Ministry of Justice and to have a registration
certificate.
2. SCAs must have the authorization of the State Supervising Body for its
activity.
3. SCA keeps accounting records according to established standards.
4. The loan application and other documents are prepared in conformity to RFC
standards.
5. SCA guarantees submission of all information and free access of authorized
RFC staff to SCAs records at all times.
6. SCA strictly observes the prudential rules established for SCAs concerning the
capital adequacy, liquidity, balance of maturities of assets and liabilities, risk
division coefficients, provisioning at the moment the loans are received, and
guarantees observing of these rules during the period of the loan.
7. RFC will require SCAs to contribute an amount equivalent to 5% of their
outstanding borrowings from RFC in the form of non-voting shares.



23                                                         Proect Descrition
MI. Loans and interest rates for loans
1. loans will be offered by RFC to SCA only in national currency.
2. The ceiling of loans to an SCA will depend on the number of members of SCA, the
ceiling for each member being established in section VIII.
3. The interest rate for loans is established by RFC twice a year, in March and
September, based on RFC's interest rate paid to the GOM plus a fee of 5% to cover
RFC's transaction costs. RFC will set aside 1% out of its spread to cover the
administrative costs of DC and build up its reserves.
4. The established interest rate for loans is fixed for the whole term of the loan offered
to SCA.
IV. RFC obligations
1. RFC presents statements and reports to the Government of Moldova, World Bank,
and other donors, according to requirements established by the latter. These will
include quarterly reports on its operations, income statements, balance sheet, cash
flow statement, an analysis of arrears and capital adequacy ratio.
2. RFC will insure that instructions of donors are strictly observed, in case they do not
contradict the active legislation of Moldova.
3. RFC will monitor the loans offered, during the whole period of loan.
4. RFC must take all measures to recover loans offered to SCAs. In case of default or
violations of established rules, RFC may take steps for immediate recall of loans.
5. RFC has the right to initiate legal proceedings in order to obtain the reimbursement of
loans.
V. Capital Adequacy
1. 5% of outstanding short-term loans with maturity less than 1 year have to be covered
by RFC's equity;
2. 8% of outstanding medium term or long term loans with the maturity over one year
must be covered by RFC's equity;
3. 100% of fixed or intangible assets (net of accumulated amortization), overdue assets
and bad debts must be covered by RFC's equity.
4. For the purpose of calculating capital adequacy, any subordinated interest-free loan
repayable after a period of ten years will be regarded as equity.
VI. Balance of maturities of assets and liabilities
RFC must assure a correct correlation between the medium term and long term loans and
liabilities payable in medium and long term. 75% of the amount of loans whose maturities
exceed two years, must be financed from resources with the maturity greater than two years.



Annex 2                                                                  24
VII. Risk division ratios
1. The amount of loans granted to one SCA shall not exceed 100% of RFC's equity or
$250,000, whichever is lower.
2. The amount of loan offered to one SCA from the second year of operation of RFC,
shall not exceed 10% of the total amount of outstanding loans of RFC.
VIII. Provisioning and special instructions
1. General risk provisions for outstanding loans with maturity of one year or less shall
not be less than 1%.
2. General risk provisions for outstanding loans with term greater than one year shall
not be less than 2%.
RFC must adjust the level of its reserves for standard debts depending on the performance of its
portfolio. Provisions for outstanding loans will be calculated as follows:
1. Minimum 30% for loans classified as overdue (the repayment of which is two months
overdue);
2. Minimum 75% for loans classified as doubtful (the repayment of which is overdue
between two and twelve months);
3. 100% for loans classified as irrecoverable (the repayment of which more than 12
months overdue);
Provisions of 100% are constituted for accounting variances.



25                                                   Project Description
PROJECT COMPONENT 4
RURAL CREDIT LINE FOR SCAs
I.    The Project will provide a line of credit to RFC, who in turn will provide
investment and working capital loans to Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs) to
onlend to the SCA members. These consist of private farmers and private rural
entrepreneurs. The proceeds of the Credit will be used exclusively to lend to SCAs.
Finance is targeted to SCAs operating in the rural areas to improve the profitability of the
members of SCAs, increase their output, earnings and employment potential.
2.    Lending anrangements include: (a) a Credit Agreement between IDA and the
Republic of Moldova; (b) Subsidiary Credit Agreement between the Ministry of Finance
of the Republic of Moldova and the RFC; (c) Subloan agreements between RFC and the
SCAs; and (d) subloan agreements between the SCAs and their members. The
Subsidiary Credit Agreement will include: (a) acceptance of financing conditions by an
RFC, (b) commitment to agree and follow the operational manual for lending to SCAs;
(c) agreement to only lend to SCAs that follow the prudential rules; (d) agreement to
carry out an annual audit using external auditors and to implement auditors'
recommendations; and (e) agreement to provide periodic reports on the portfolio financed
from IDA funds. Signature of a Subsidiary Credit Agreement between MOF and the
RFC is a condition of effectiveness.
3.    The Reference Ra is the rate at which RFC receives the funds from GOM: The
redit line will be available to RFC in Lei, the national currency of the Republic of
Moldova. All subloans to SCAs will be denominated in Lei. The GOM bears the foreign
exchange risk. These loans to RFC carry an interest rate, which will be determined twice
a year, in February and August and become applicable from the next month i.e. in March
and September for the following six month period. In fixing these interest rates. The
Reference Rate will be determined based on the average National Bank of Moldova's
Auction Rate for ninety day funds in the preceding three months plus an additional spread
of up to a maximum of 2% per annum. The Reference Rate is intended to cover any
administrative charges that MOF may incur from any disbursement or conversion
transactions related to the disbursement of the project funds to RFC. The initial
Reference Rate for RFC will be determined at effectiveness and no additional spread will
be charged for the first six months period. Thereupon, the amount of the spread will be
determined based upon the percentage of the principal amount of loans overdue by more
than 60 days based on the following schedule:



Annex 2                                                            26
Principal amount of loans overdue    Additional spread included in
by more than 60 days expressed as a          the Reference Rate
percentage of principal amount of loans
due and payable
Up to 1 %                                              0%
More than 1 % up to 2 %                               0.5 %
More than 2 % up to 3 %                               1.0 %
More than 3 % up to 4 %                               1.5 %
More than 4 % up to 102 %                             2.0%
4.    Rpmnet: GOM has agreed to grant RFC quasi-equity in the form of a loan of
US $2 million (from the World Bank Credit), repayable over 35 years including a 10 year
grace period and an interest rate of 0.75% per annum. All other loans provided to RFC
under this Agreement are to be repaid in semi-annual installments over 20 years,
including a grace period of 5 years. RFC will pay interest to GOM semi-annually. In the
event of any delay in payment of debt service to GOM, RFC will pay a penal interest of
3% per annum in addition to the normal interest rate. RFC may make early debt
repayment without any penalty. In case of arrears in principal or interest repayment on
any due date from an SCA, the RFC will nevertheless be liable for payment to MOF.
5.    Lending Poligy: These are defined in the RFC operational manual which will be
updated periodically in agreement with IDA. The maximum outstanding loan amount to
a single SCA will be calculated according to the following formula:
(n x $500) + (n x 10% x $2.250)
n = number of SCA members
$500 = average working capital loan size
10% = maximum percentage of SCA membership allowed medium-term loans
$2,250 = average medium-term investment loan size
6.    During the first year of an SCA's operation, SCAs are only allowed to lend for
short-term working capital purposes. No single loan granted by an SCA will exceed US
$15,000 or 100% of the SCA's equity. The SCA borrows from the RFC at a fixed rate of
interest, which is fixed for the life of the loan. This rate is "locked" when the loan is
approved by the Credit Committee. When the cost of funds to the RFC changes on new
borrowings from the GOM, the RFC will pass on the changes in its interest rate to fuiitre
SCA bofowings.
2  If more tan 10% the principal amount is outstanding for more than 60 days, IDA reserves the right to
suspend disbursements (DCA, Section 5.01 (e))



Annex 3
Rural Finance Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                       Local          Foreign       Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
Establishment of SCAs                              0.6               0.4           1.0
Regulatory body of SCAs                            0.0               0.24          0.24
Establishment of the RFC                           0.1               0.16          0.26
Rural Credit Line for SCAs                         0.0               4.6           4.6
Total Project Cost                                 0.7               5.4           6.1
,.






Annex 4
Moldova
Rural Finance Project
Private Small Farms: Farm Incomes, Borrowing and Debt Repayment Capacity
A.   Background
1.   Independent private farrns began to form in 1991. Despite limited progress in land reformn
and farm restructuring, the number of independent private farmers reached over 156,000 by mid-
1997, and is increasing rapidly. The average farm size of these emerging private farmers is small,
mostly ranging from 2 to 3 hectares. About 80% of these private farms are single-family farms,
and the rest have mostly been created by 2 to 3 families. Private farms established jointly by
several families (4 to 7 families), form a small percentage (estimated at about 5%) of the total
number of private farms.
2.    Most of the emerging private farms cannot obtain loans from commercial banks. While
these emerging private farms tend to be more profitable than collective farms, they are small and
possess few assets. Commercial banks state that they have received an increasing number of loan
applications from new private farms and small rural enterprises, but argue that these loan
applicants are not bankable because they do not have sufficient assets to use as collateral.
Collateral requirements cannot be easily met, as these banks require collateral from 120 to 200%
of the value of each loan.
3.    Loan arnounts required by these emerging farms are usually small (US $200 to $1,000).
The small loan size forces commercial banks to cover their administrative costs by charging high
interest rates. Additionally, commercial banks peceive that small private farms have poor
liquidity, and consequently doubt their capacity to service debt at high interest rates. Although
private farms have difficulties in obtaining loans from commercial banks, many of these small
farms are in fact profitable, providing incomes to farmers at levels higher than the average wage
rates.
4.    By creating Savings and Credit Associations (SCA), the Rural Finance Project introduces
innovative mechanisms to overcome problems associated with the lack of commercial collateral
and high transaction costs of small loans. One of the key objectives of the project is to increase
the provision of financial services to small private farms and rural enterprises, especially through
the provision of short-term loans (less than 12 months) initially, and later on, medium term loans
of up to 3 years, depending on experience and track record. Small amounts of loans enable
farmers to pay for basic necessities such as seeds, fertilizers, agrochemicals, mechanized work,
fuel, spare parts, hired seasonal labor, transportation, veterinary drugs and supplies. Many of
these farms also have growth potential and longer term income-generating opportunities which
require upfront investments. The sections described below provide analysis on the financial



Annex 4                                                                            2
viability, loan requirements and debt repaymnent capacities of small private larras which are
potential beneficiaries of he Project.
B.    Crop and Farm Budgets
5.    For the purpose of evaluating the financial conditions of small private farms in Moldova,
crop budgets have been developed (for details, see Tables 1 and 2) to include wheat, barley,
maize, sunflower, alfalfa, sugar beet, tobacco, vegetables and fruit. These crops are
representative of the present cropping patterns in the northern, central and southern agroclimatic
zones of the country. Expected yields are conservative, and represent achievable yields in these
areas.
6.    Farm inputs consisting of seeds, fertilizers, agrochemicals, mechanization and transport,
and labor inputs for each crop have also been estimated to reflect realistic requirements. Prices of
agricultural outputs and farm inputs have been adjusted to reflect farmgate prices in 1997.
Mechanized work, with the use of tractor and its implements for land preparation, planting,
harvesting and on-farm transport have been estimated at 45 Lei/hour. Actual rental rates,
including the cost of fuel and operators, are close to this hourly cost estimate.
7.    Although land and social taxes vary from one farm to another and from region to region,
land taxes are assumed in the farm budgets at a flat rate of 90 Lei/, and social taxes are assumed
at 140 Lei/ha. Farms in Moldova pay a flat rate land tax, ranging from 90 to 160 Lei/ha; and
social taxes range from 140 to 190 Lei/ha in most cases.
8.    Taking into account the respective cropping pattern assumptions, production costs, land
tax and social taxes, net returns calculated before own family labor and income taxes for farms
range from as low as 446 Lei/ha in the south, 762 Lei/ha in the central zone to 1,146 Lei/ha in the
northern agroclimatic zone. These returns are calculated before financing; and they represent
favorable returns on own family labor inputs.
9.    Compared to daily average wage rates of 10 Lei per day, the farm budgets (as shown in
Table 3) indicate that returns (before financing and income tax) on own family labor exceed
these wages rates considerably. Returns on family labor are calculated at 66 Lei per day in the
north, 43 Lei/day in the central zone, and 26 Lei/day in the south.
10.   Although these returns are attractive and obtainable, many small private farms are
presently unable to achieve these returns because of unavailability of working capital for
purchases of farm inputs to ensure adequate applications of fertilizers and crop protection
agrochemicals. Further, much of the mechanized work requirements cannot be easily substituted
with labor. Therefore, small private farms require short-term working capital loans for financing
their seasonal farm inputs and works.



3                      Private Small Farms: Incomes. Borrowing. and Debt Repavment Capacit=
C.   Farm Incomes and Rates of Return
11.   For the purpose of illustrating the cashflows of typical small private farms, additional key
assumptions are made:
(a)   The total farmn size is assumed at 2.75 ha, consisting of 2 ha of owned land and an
additional 0.75 ha of rented land.
(b)   Based on actual market rates, land rental has been estimated at twice the amount
of land tax, e.g., 180 Lei/ha.
(c)   Gross revenues, expressed in monetary terms, are derived from calculating the
value of the estimated farm outputs. All farm outputs are valued at their farmgate
prices, although farmers have the option of selling all of their products at these
prices, or keep a portion of them for their own consumption.
(d)   Major cash expenses for the farms include: (i) production costs, consisting of
payments for seeds, fertilizers, pesticides and other agrochemicals, mechanized
work, transport and hired labor; (ii) land rental; (iii) land tax; and (iv) social taxes.
(e)   The short-term loan is estimated to be about Lei 2,300, which corresponds to the
average loan size in the pilot project.
(f)   Short-term loans have a duration of less than 12 months, assuming an average
duration of 9 months. Loan principal is repaid in one lump sum at maturity of the
loan. Interest charges are calculated on a monthly basis, capitalized and
compounded. Interest charges accrued and are paid together with the principal in
one lump sum at the maturity of the loan.
(g)   Effective interest rates are assumed at 30% per annum. While the SCA may
expect to borrow at interest rates averaging 24% per annum, the SCA add a total
spread of 6 percent to cover administrative and operating costs, as well as ensure
adequate risk coverage by requiring farmers to contribute a percentage of the loan
amount to the risk funds of the SCA. While the risk funds remain in the hands of
the SCA to cover potential defaults and to add to the capitalization of the
associations, for cashflow calculations farmers will have to include payments to
the risk funds.
12.   The models show (see Tables 4 to 6) that small private farms have a higher return to
labor than rural wages. Assuming that these farms draw on a 6-month short-term loan of 2,300
Lei, interest charges of this loan amount to 367 Lei. Consequently, net returns on own labor
(before income taxes) amount to 2,590 Lei, representing an equivalent of 54.4 Lei/day worked.



Annex 4                                                                        4
These family farms can expect net returns on own labor (before income taxes) of 1,546 Lei (32
Lei/day worked) in the central agroclimatic zone and 680 Lei (14 Leilday worked) in the south.
Compared to rural wage rates of 10 Lei/day, these returns provide incentives to private farmers to
cultivate their lands.
13.   Farms of the typical average size of 2.75 ha in the north, central and south agroclimatic
zones provide attractive means of earning rural incomes, compared to the present daily wage
rates. These farms potentially provide rates of return far in excess of the interest rates, and
therefore present themselves as viable investment opportunities for short-term loan financing.
Total Interest payments constitute about 12%, 18% and 31%, respectively, of total net returns.
However, borrowing and repayment capacity of individual farmers must also take into
consideration other factors such as total household incomes from all sources and consumption
patterns. With smallholdings of less than 3 hectares for single families of two adults and possibly
with two children, families cannot solely rely on these farms as their source of livelihood,
especially in areas in the central and south agroclimatic zones.
14.   Annual incomes before income tax from 2.75 ha farms in the north could provide the
equivalent monthly income (before income tax) amounting to 108 Lei/month/adult, compared to
64 Lei/month/adult in the central zone and about 28 Lei/month/adult in the south. Farming still
provides attractive returns against actual days worked on the farm. Therefore, as economic
activities, farming presents itself as viable opportunities for the rural population.
D.   Borrowing and Debt Repayment Capacity
15.   For the same type of farms as described above, their borrowing and debt repayment
capacity for a medium term (3-year) investment loan has been examined. For the purpose of this
evaluation, a number of key assumptions are made:
(a)   Inflation is assumed at 15% per annum for the next 3 years.
(b)   Interest rate is at 30% per annum, calculated, due and paid monthly. There is no
grace period on principal repayments.
(c)   Debt service (including interest payments and principal repayments) are set at a
maximum equivalent of 40% of net income before debt service.
(d)   Borrowing is assumed for on-farm investments such as for tools, equipment and
other items necessary and used for supporting the operations of the farm.
Based on the above assumptions, these 2.75 ha farms will be able to repay their loans and pay
their interest charges over a 3-year period, when the amount borrowed does not exceed the



5                      Private Small Farms: Incomes. Borrowing. and Debt Repavment Capacitv
equivalent of their annual income before debt service. Such conditions imply that small private
farns in the north must not borrow more than 3,000 Lei on a 3-year term.
E.   Cost Effectiveness of SCAs
16.   Lending through SCAs to the final borrowers is more cost-effective than a traditional
bank approach. SCAs provide interest rates to borrowers at lower rates than what commercial
banks would offer for two main reasons:
(a)   The SCA is a voluntary organization that can receive a loan from the RFC, on behalf of
its members as a group. This way, the SCA reduces the administrative burden of
individual loan appraisal, processing and administration that would otherwise take place
and become the burden of the lending institution, the case when borrowers go directly to
commercial banks.
(b)   The SCA manages risk funds contributed by borrowing members, and invest them in
interest bearing bank deposits, to serve as a group guaranty or collateral. This mechanism
would not be available when borrowers go directly to commercial banks which demand
traditional collateral and charge interest risk-premiums over the fact that small private
farms do not have adequate collateral.
17.   The SCA during the pilot phase have shown their capability to operate on a 2% spread to
cover operations and administrative costs, passing on cost savings derived from voluntary work
contribution and reduced administrative costs to members.



Table I ofAnnex 4
Rural Fnane Projet
Crop Budgets-I heebre basis, 197 hinancial teu
Wheat   Ba3ly    MaIze  Sulower  AifaVe    Sugar  Tobacco V        ble  Fruimt
Physkal Outputs and Inputs      Unit                                 (grain)             May     Beet
Expected Cutot YiYIds)
h  ton                 28       2.7      31       17       7 01    220(      1 2      6        6 8
Cenbal                        ton                    2 6      25       27        1.6     60       19        1.1      45       5 4
South                        ton                     231      221      231      11         01              10       3        42
Average                       ton                    2 6      2 5       2 7      1.6     6.0     208        11       4.6      5 5
Seed                          kg                     250      250       20       15        8        I        1        4
Ferblizers                    kg                     150      150      200      200      120      200      300      200      200
Pesbcdes i agrochernicals    humrpum
Mechaniza ion
Tractor                       hour                     6        6        8        5        5       10       10       10       10
Harvesting                    hour                     I         I       I        1        a        4        0        O        O
Transport                     hour                     2        2        2        1        4        2        3       10       10
babor
Fermly/Own Labor              day                     14       14       18       14       14       14       30       30       30
Hired Labor                   day                      0        0        0        0        0                30       10       15
Fen  ate UnltCostsandPrtes      |Unit
Qu(uts                          Leinon                 600      550      500      750      400      100     4000      700      80
In"utn
Seed                          LeUkg                 0.72     066       35       1.4      3.5       60      180       50
Frblizers                     LeUkg                 072      072      0.72     072      0 72     072      0 72     0.72     0 72
Pestiddes I agrochemicals     irnuipm                  0        0      180        0        0        0      400      200      200
Tractor                       Lethour                 45       45       45       45       45       45       45       45       45
Harvesting                    Lelltour                45       45       45       45       45       45       45       45       45
Transport                     Lentour                 45       45       45       45       45       45       45       45       45
Hired Labor                   Lelday                  10       10       10       10       10       10       10       10       10
Exped Gross Revenuesu
North                         Lei                  1,680    1,485    1,550    1,275    2,80     2,200    4,800    4,340    5,440
Central                       Lei                  1,560    1,375    1,350    1.200    2,400    1,960    4,400    3,150    4,320
South                         Lei                  1,380    1,210    1,150    1,125    2,000        0    4,000    2,100    3,360
Average                       Lei                  1.540    1,357    1,350    1,200    2,400    2.080    4,400    3,197    4,373
iProduction Costs
Seed                          Lei                   10       165       70       21       28       50      180      200        0
FertlIzers                    Lei                    108      108      144      144      8s       144      216      144      144
Pastlcddeslagrochermirs       Lei                      0        0      10        0        0        0      400      200      200
Tractor                       Lei                    270      270      360      225      225     450       450      450      450
Harvesting                    Lei                     45       45       45       45     360      10         0        0        0
Transport                     Lei                     90       90       90       45      180       90      135      450      450
Hired Labor                   Lei                      0        0        0        0       0        0       300      100      150
Total (excl. own labor) Lei              693      678      869      480     879      914    1.681    1,544    1,394
[Gross Marginslma ecl own lab.
Norih                         Let                    987      807     681       795    1,921    1,286    3,119    2,798    4,04k
Cenal                         Let                    867      697      481      720    1,521    1,046    2.719    1,606    2,926
South                         Lei                    687      532      281      645    1,121             2.319      656    1.968
Averag@                       Le                     847      679      481      720    1,521    1,166    2.719    1.653    2,979



Table 2 of Annex 4
Moldova
Rural Finance Project
Indicative Cropping Patterns
(1 Hectare Basis, 1997 financial terrns)
Total    Wheat   Barley    Maize  Sunflower  Alfalfa    Sugar  Tobacco Vegetables   Fruit
on I ha                      (grain)             Hay       Beet
Estimated Cropping Pattems (%)
North                                100%      30%        5%       19%      12%        8%       10%        3%        7%        6%
Central                              100%      28%        5%       29%       16%       7%        0%        3%        6%        6%
South                                100%      26%        5%       35%       16%       5%        0%        4%        4%        5%



Table 3 of Annex 4
Moldova
Rural Finance Project
Farm Budgets, 1997 financial terms
(1 Hectare, based on respective cropping patterns)
Contribution by crop as determined by % share in respective cropping pattems
Total on  Wheat  Barley   Maize    Sunflower Alfalfa Hay Sugar Beet Tobacco Vegetables Fruit
Expected Gross Revenues                       504       74      295       153       224        220      144       304      326
North                            2,244     437       69      392       192       168          0      132        189      259
Central                          1,837     359       61      403       180       100          0      160         84      168
South                            1,514
Production Costs (excl. own labor)            208       34      165        58        70         91       50        108      84
North                              868     194       34      252        77        62          0       50         93       84
Central                            845     180       34      304        77        44          0       67         62       70
South                              838
Gross Margins
(before own family labor)                  296       40      129        95       154        129       94        196      243
North                            1,376     243       35      139       115       106          0       82         96      176
Central                            992     179       27       98       103        56          0       93         22       98
South                              676
Other Expenses
Landtax b/ I90
Social taxes cl                    140
Net Retums per ha (before own labor & Income tax)
North                            1,146
Central                            7621
South                              446
Family Labor Inputs (days)
(adjusted, based on cropping pattem)
North                             17.3     4.2      0.7      3.4       1.7        1.1       1.4      0.9        2.1      1.8
Central                           17.6      3.9     0.7      5.2       2.2        1.0       0.0      0.9        1.8      1.8
South                             17.5      3.6     0.7      6.3       2.2       0.7        0.0      1.2        1.2      1.5
Returns before Income taxes for own labor
North                        LeVday       66 14|
Central                      LeV/day      43.41
South                        Lei/day      25.52



Table 4 of Annex 4
Moldova
Rural Finance Project
Private Small Farms: North Region
Farm Income, Borrowing and Loan Repayment Capacity
Short-term Loans: less than 12 months
Farm Characteristics
Regional location             North
Source of Water             Rainfed
Total Farm Size (ha) a/        2.75
Owned land (ha)              2.00
Rented land (ha) c/          0.75
Type of owners               Family
Number of adults                 2
Land rent (LeiVha)              180
Lei
Gross Revenues bl                                                            6,171
Production Costs b/                                                       (2,388)
Land rental d/                                                              (135)
Land tax                                                                   (180)
Social taxes                                                               (385)
Total expenses                                                               (3,088)
Returns (before interest charges. own labor and income tax)                  3,083
Loan Interest Calculation (in Lei) e/
Loan amount required to cover total expenses                     2,300
Loan Duration (months)
Interest rate (%) per annum
Loan amount at maturity (including accrued interest, compounded monthly)    2,667
Interest paid at loan maturity                                                (367)
Net Returns (before own labor & income tax)                                  2,715
Total estimated amount of own labor input (days)                      47.6
Net Returns on own laboriday worked (after financing & before income tax)
Interest paid as percentage of net retums f/
a) farm size is based on actual averages of the pilot phase
b) assuming crop budgets as shown on table 1, and cropping paKterns as shown on table 2
c) rented land area is also based on averages of the pilot phase
d) land rental cost per ha is assumed at twice the amount of land tax per ha, based on farm survey results
e) loan principal is repaid in one lumpsum at maturity, together with payment of accrued interest charges;
interest is calculated monthly, capitalized and compounded
f) annualized and calculated before financing, own labor and income tax



Table 5 of Annex 4
Moldova
Rural Finance Project
Private Small Farms: Central Region
Farm Income, Borrowing and Loan Repayment Capacity
Short-term Loans: less than 12 months
Farm Characteristics
Regional location            Central
Source of Water             Rainfed
Total Farm Size (ha) a/        2.75
Owned land (ha)              2.00
Rented land (ha) cl           0.75
Type of owners               Family
Number of adults                  2
Land rent (Leilha)              180
Lei
Gross Revenues bl                                                             5,052
Production Costs b/                                                        (2,324)
Land rental di                                                              (135)
Land tax                                                                    (180)
Social taxes                                                                (385)
Total expenses                                                               (3,024)
Returns (before interest charges. own labor and income tax)                   2,029
Loan Interest Calculation (in Lei) e/
Loan amount required to cover total expenses                      2,300
Loan Duration (months)
Interest rate (%) per annum
Loan amount at maturity (including accrued interest, compounded monthly)    2,667
Interest paid at loan maturity                                                (367)
Net Returns (before own labor & income tax)                                   1,661
Total estimated amount of own labor input (days)                      48.3
Net Retums on own labor/day worked (after financing & before income tax)        34.4
Interest paid as percentage of net retums f/                                  18.1%|
a) farm size is based on actual averages of the pilot phase
b) assuming crop budgets as shown on table 1, and cropping pattems as shown on table 2
c) rented land area is also based on averages of the pilot phase
d) land rental cost per ha is assumed at twice the amount of land tax per ha, based on farm survey results
e) loan principal is repaid in one lumpsum at maturity, together with payment of accrued interest charges;
interest is calculated monthly, capitalized and compounded
f) annualized and calculated before financing, own labor and income tax



Table 6 of Annex 4
Moldova
Rural Finance Project
Private Small Farns: South Region
Farm Income, Borrowing and Loan Repayment Capacity
Short-term Loans: less than 12 months
Farm Characteristics
Regional location             South
Source of Water             Rainfed
Total Farm Size (ha) a/        2.75
Owned land (ha)              2.00
Rented land (ha) cl          0.75
Type of owners               Family
Number of adults                 2
Land rent (Lei/ha)             180
Lei
Gross Revenues b/                                                            4,163
Production Costs bl                                                       (2,304)
Land rental d/                                                             (135)
Land tax                                                                    (180)
Social taxes                                                               (385)
;Total expens                                                                (3,004)
Retums (before interest charges. own labor and income tax)                   1,159
Loan Interest Calculafion (in Lei) e/
Loan amount required to cover total expenses                     2,300
Loan Duration (months)
Interest rate (%) per annum
Loan amount at maturity (including accrued interest, compounded monthly)    2,667
Interest paid at loan maturity                                                (367)
Net Returns (before own labor & income tax)                                    792 |
Total estimated amount of own labor input (days)                      48.1
Net Returns on own laborlday worked (after financing & before income tax)      16.5
Interest paid as percentage of net returns fl                                31.7I
a) farm size is based on actual averages of the pilot phase
b) assuming crop budgets as shown on table 1, and cropping patterns as shown on table 2
c) rented land area is also based on averages of the pilot phase
d) land rental cost per ha is assumed at twice the amount of land tax per ha, based on farm survey results
e) loan principal is repaid in one lumpsum at maturity, together with payment of accrued interest charges;
interest is calculated monthly, capitalized and compounded
f) annualized and calculated before financing, own labor and income tax






Annex 5
Rural Finance Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending 1999
(In US $ (OOOs) base year 1989)
Implementation Period
1998        1999
Project Costs
Investment Costs                  2,800       2,800
Recurrent Costs                   200         300
Total                          3,000       3,100
Financing Sources (% of total project
costs)
IDA                               2,600       2,400
Beneficiaries                     200          500
Donors                            200         200
Total                          3,000       3,100






Annex 6
Rural Finance Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Goods and Works to be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
loans and IDA credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996. Consulting services, technical assistance
and training would be procured in accordance with the Guidelines - Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers, January 1997. The Bank's standard form for requests for proposals (RFP) for consultant
services and standard consultant contracts will be used for procurement.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Consultant Services and Training. Individual consultants for technical assistance under the project
(estimated to cost a total of about US$ 240,000) will be selected through selection of individual consultants
(Section V of the Guidelines). Audit companies for the about 130 Savings and Credit Associations and for the
Rural Finance Corporation will be selected through Least Cost Selection (estimated to cost a total of about US$
110,000).
Goods may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures (estimated
to cost a total of about US$ 55,000) in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
SCA Loans (Rural Credit Line): Procurement will be performed by final beneficiaries. All subloans will
be limited to a maximum amount of US$ 15,000 per sub-loan. Procurement will therefore follow normal
commercial practices satisfactory to the Bank. The aggregate amount of such procurements will not exceed US$
4.6 million.
Incremental Operating Costs under the project (estimated to cost a total of about US$ 90,000) includes
operating expenses of RFC and RFPIU which include staff salaries, expenses in respect of office accommodation,
equipment and supplies, transportation and communication costs, and other administrative expenses.
Project Preparation Advance. A Project Preparation Advance of US$ 750,000 which includes US$
100,000 for goods, US$ 150,000 for consultant services, US$ 400,000 for pilot credits to SCAs, and US$ 100,000
for incremental operating costs is under implementation.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Consulting contracts in excess of US$ 100,000 for firms and US$ 50,000 for individuals would be subject
to prior review procedures. The Bank will also review, regardless of value, terms of reference of all consultants.
Selective post review of awarded contracts below the threshold level would be carried out during field
supervision. No prior review will be required for contracts and goods procured under the credit line.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C) Disbursement will cover: 100% of all loans to SCAs, and 100% of
consultant services and training procured under the project.



Use of statements of expenses (SOEs): Due to the great number of small disbursements expected under
the project, disbursements for (i) goods under contracts costing less than US$ 200,000, (ii) SCA loans, training
and incremental operating costs; and (iii) services under contract with consulting firms costing less than US$
100,000 each, and contracts with individual consultants costing less than US$ 50,000 each would be made against
a certified statement of expenditure (SOE), for which appropriate documentation would be retained by the RFPIU
and implementing agencies. The Bank's reimbursement would be limited to expenditures made by a sub-
borrower not more than 180 days prior to the Bank's receipt of the request for reimbursement.
Special account: To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would establish a Special Account in
one of the major foreign commercial banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank t , cover the Bank's
share of expenditures. The authorized Allocation would be US$ 2.0 million, representing about four months of
average expenditures made through the Special Account. During the early stage of the project, the initial
allocation to the Special Account would be limited to US$ 1.0 million. However, when the aggregate
disbursements under the Credit have reached the level of SDR 1.0 million, the initial allocation may be increased
up to the Authorized Allocation of US$ 2.0 million by submitting the relevant application for withdrawal.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or when one-third of the
amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment would
follow the standard Bank procedure as described in Disbursement Handbook, Chapter 6. Monthly bank
statements of the Special Account which have been reconciled by the Borrower would accompany all
replenishment requests.
Retroactive Finance will be available for up to US$ 0.5 million. Providing that the procurement of goods
subject to retroactive financing has followed the agreed Bank procurement procedures, the retroactive financing
would apply to payments on contracts effected on or after October 9, 1997.



Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangementsl
(in US$ thousands equivalent)
Expenditure Category                     Procurement Method              Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB     NCB   Other           N.B.F
1. Servicesa)
Technical assistance and training                        100                     100
for the Regulator and RFPIU                            (100)                   (100)
Technical assistance and training                        100                     100
for RFC                                                (100)                    (100)
Technical assistance and training                                 400            400
for MMA                                                         (0)               (0)
2. Goodsb)                                                50                      50
(50)                    (50)
3. Rural Credit Linec)                                 4,600                   4,600
(3,900)                 (4,900)
4. Incremental Operating Costsd)
- of RFC                                                 60                      60
(60)                    (60)
- of RFPIU                                               40                      40
(40)                    (40)
3) Project Preparation Facility-)                        750                     750
(750)                  (750)
Total
5,700     400           6,100
(5,000)   (0)           (5,000)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
The procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as
"N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the table or in the text.
a)     For a breakdown of consultant contracts, please see Annex 6, Table Al.
b)    under national shopping procedures
c)    procurement under the credit line will follow normal commercial practices.
d)    for staff salaries, office accommodation, equipment, supplies, transportation, communication
e)    PPF includes $100,000 for goods, $400,000 for pilot credits to SCAs, $150,000 for consulting
services, studies, and training, and $100,000 for incremental operating costs.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
Jetails on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A, where applicable).



Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ equivalent)
Selection Method                        Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                  (including
Expenditure Category                                                       N.B.F.   contingencies)
A. Firmns
(a) Local audit for SCAs                           70,000                              70,000
(b) int. audits for RFC                            40,000                              40,000
(c) Assistance for MMA                                                       400,000   400,000
B. Individuals
(a) ST con. for Regulator                                           80,000             80,000
(b) ST con. for RFC (lending)                                      50,000              50,000
(c) ST con. for RFC (MIS)                                          30,000              30,000
(d) Local con. for Regulator                                       40,000              40,000
(e) Local con. for PIU        _                                    20,000      ---    20,000
Total                         110,000          220,000   400,000   730,000
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Comlmercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Annex 6 Table A2 Procurement Plan
Type    No. of Estimated  Procurement Document   Invitation  Contract Contract
con-   Cost       Method      Preparation  to bid    signing   Compl.
tracts  (US$)
Audits for 170    CF       2       70,000     LCS         June 98      Sep 98    Oct 98   Dec 99
SCAs
Audits for RFC in   CF     2       40,000     LCS         June 98      Sep 98    Oct 98   Dec 99
1998 and 1999
advice to Regulator  CI     1      80,000     other       Jan 98       Feb 98    Feb 98   Dec 99
of SCAs
advice to RFC in    CI      1      50,000     other       Jan 98       Feb 98    Feb 98   Dec 99
lending
strategy/policy
advice to RFC on    CI      1      30,000     other       Feb 98       Mar 98    Mar 98   Dec 99
MIS
Local consultants   CI     2       40,000     other       Jan 98       Feb 98    Feb 98   Dec 99
for Regulator
Local consultants   CI     2       20,000     other       Jan 98       Feb 98    Feb 98   Dec 99
for PIU Type:_CF_-eo____ __n__ir_n__C__onsultingI__dividua
Type: CF - Consulting Firm; CI - Consulting Individual



Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Reviewl
Expenditure          Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)              Method             Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $ thousands                              US $ thousands
1. Services
Individual Consultants         50                   Other                 50/150
Consulting Firms               100                   LCS                 100/none
2. Miscellaneous
Rural Credit Line              50            commercial practices          none
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: 140,000
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category               Amount in US$    Financing Percentage
million
Consultant's Services and Training
- Consultant Services and training                  0.08                100%
for Regulator and RFPIU
- Consultant Services and training                  0.1                 100%
for RFC
Goods (for Regulator)                               0.05
Loans to SCAs                                       3.8                 100%
Incremental Operating Costs
- of RFC                                            0.06
- of RFPIU                                          0.03
Refunding of Project Preparation Advance            0.75
Unallocated                                         0.13
Total         5.0
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and contact the
Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



I



Annex 7
Rural Finance Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$435,900
B. Project Schedule                             Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)            6/14/1996            6/14/1996
Appraisal mission departure                    12/15/1997           9/28/1997
Negotiations                                   2/16/1998            12/11/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  4/15/1998              / /19
Prepared by: Rural Finance Project Implementation Unit and the Moldova Microfinance
Alliance (NGO)
Preparation assistance: PPF - $750,000; PHRD $450,000; various trust funds $200,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Florian Grohs                            Ag. Economist
Brian Berman                         Agro-business specialist
Allessandra Iorio                            Lawyer
Nora Dudwick                             Anthropologist
Other team members (Consultants, Volunteers)
Konrad Ellsaesser                      Development of SCAs
Amnon Golan                               Institutions
V.S. Raghavan                         Development of RFC
Dean Mahon                               Law on SCAs
Scott Earl                             Law on SCAs
Steve Nielsen                         Regulation of SCAs



/



Annex 8
Rural Finance Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Other
RFC Policy Manual
RFC Prudential Rules
RFC Statutes
RFC Business Plan
RFC Sample Loan Agreements with SCAs
SCA Statutes
SCA Prudential Rules
SCA Sample Loan Agreements with SCA members
MMA Statutes
Rural Social Assessment of Moldova
Moldovan Farm Survey
*Including electronic files.






Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits



I



MOP Schedule D
Generated: November 5, 1997
Status of Bank Group Operations in Moldova
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                           disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit       Year                Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                                IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 4
Active           RU5.s00
MD-PE-44147   IBRD42290    1998   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                  SAL II                           55.00        0.00            0.00          55.00        0.00       0.00
MD-PE-44147   IDA29880       1998   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                SAL II                            0.00       45.00            0.00         45.16         0.00       O.O0
MD-PE-35811   IDA29620       1997   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                PSD II                            0.00        9.00            0.00           9.03        9.01       0.00
MD-PE-8558    IBRD41510    1997   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                  GENERAL EDUCATION                16.80        0.00            0.00          16.80       16.80       0.00
MD-PE-8555    IBRD40200    1996   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                  ENERGY                           10.00        0.00            0.00         10.00        10.00       0.00
MD-PE-8556    IBRD40110    1996   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                  AGRICULTURE I                    10.00        0.00            0.00           9.61        9.61       0.00
MD-PE-8561    IBRD39770    1996   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                  PRIV. SECT. DEV. I               25.00        0.00            0.00         24.35        34.35       0.00
MD-PE-8561    IBRD39771    1996   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                  PRIV. SECT. DEV. I               10.00        0.00            0.00           7.87       34.89       0.00
Total                                                                                                  126.80       54.00            0.00        177.82       114.66       0.00
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                    1.16              145.82              146.98
of which has been repaid:                   0.00                0.00                0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 180.80               145.82              326.62
Amount sold                                        0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                0.00                 0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :               177.82                0.00              177.82
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the PY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                                                                                                                 Page I






Annex 10
Country at a Glance
I






Moldova at a glance                                                                  8128197
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Central    Low-
Moldova        Asia  Income       Development diamond^
Population mid-1996 (milions)                            4.3         479    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                                600       2,180      500                Lde expectancy
GNP 1996 (biNons US$)                                     2.6      1.043    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                           -0.1        0.3       1.7     GNP                              Gross
Labor force (%)                                           0.2        0 5       1.7     per              -              prmary
Moat recent estimate (latest year availbble since 1989)                                capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount index t% of population)
Urban population (% of toat population)                   52          65       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          69          68       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 hve bIrths)                   22          26       69               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% of population)                     ..          .       53
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                        4                   34
Gross primary enrollment ( of school-age popuation)      94          97      105                 Moldova
Male                                                    95          97      112                 Low-income group
Female                                                  94          97       98
KEY ECONOEMC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975       1986       1996      1996
Economic ratios
GOP (billions US$)                             ..          ..        2.1       1 8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                                       29.8      28.3             Openneas of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP                                   50.9      51.9
Gross domesti savings/GDP                                           20.9      14.1
Gross national savings/GDP                                          21.3      15.2
Current account balance/GDP                                          -7.0    -13.1                    ,vt
Interest payments/GDP                                                1 8       2.2     Savings                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                      32.9      45.6
Total debt serviceexports                                            7.6       8.7
Present value of debt/GDP
Present value of debt/exports                                       71.9                           Indebbdness
197586  1986-96        1995       1996  199746
(average annual growth)                                                                     -     Moldova
GDP                                  4.4    -55          -3.0      -10.0       4.1
GNP per capita                              -11.3        -3.8      -10 1       4.0                Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                             3.6        8.2       7.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(6 of GDP)                                  1975       1986        1996     1996      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agriculture                                                         50.6      49 9     r,o
Industry                                                            23.2     231       40..
Manufacturing                                                      11.6     11.5      20 -
Services                                                            26.3      27.0     -o
~40
Private consumption                                                 58.9      65.5     40
General govemment consumpton                                        20.2      20.3                      GDI        GDP
Imports of goods and services                                       59.8      66 1
1976-86    19864i6       1996     1996
(average annual growth)                                                                Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                                          4.0    -10.9      20
Industry                                                            -6 5    -10.2      lt-
Manufacturing                                                      -60     -10.2       0
Services                                        ...                 -11.1     -7.2    .10-    91   92      93   94     95   96
.20 
Private consumption                                                 -0 8       2.5     4-.
General govemment consumption                                       -18.2     -7.3    -40
Gros domesti investment                         ...                 -17.2    -11.1    .50
Importsodgoodsandservices                                            5.9      181 
Gro5s natonal product                                                -3.8    -10.1                 Exports   0-imports
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures In ialics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key Indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Moldova
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975       1#6        1996        199
DomeOsfc pdces                                                                        Intlatn (%)
(X chilge)                                                                           ZOco .
Consumer prices                                ..         ..       36.1    28.0    two ,
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..         ..       29.9    23.5    ,oco .         
Government finance                                                                    sco       / 
(S of GDP)                                                                             o
Current revenue                               ..          ..       25.1     27.2              01   n2   93   94  9s   96
Current budget balance                         .,         ,,       -4.0    -4.4                -GDPW.              CPI
Overall surplus/deficIt                        ..         ..       -5.7    -6.3
TRADE
1976       1#6        1905     19#5
(mill9ons USSJ                                                                       Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Totl exports (fob)                                                 741       U2      I.t
Commodity 1 - Uve Animals & Animal Product   ..         ..         67       84
Commodity 2 - Vegatable Products             ..         ..         76      425
Manufactures                                                       96      101
Total imports (of)                             ..         ,.        773    1,045
Food                                                               32       49       xo
Fuel and energy                               ..        ,.        352      316
Capital goods                                 ..        ..         97      105        a
Export price index (1987=100)                 ..          ..        100      101           90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                  ..         ..        100      100                 DEXpO    *Inrors
Terms of trade (1987=100)                     ..          ,.        100      101
BALANCE f PAYMENTS
1975       INS        1995     1996
(milions USS)                                                                        Current account balance to GODP ratio t%)
Exports of goods and services                  .                   865      945                                       4      -
Imports of goods and services                 ..          ..      1,016    1,204         9c  91  92  93             s 95 s
Resource balance                               ..        ..       -151      -259
Net income                                     ..         .         -21      -32     4.-                     H
Net current transfers                         ..         ..         26       52
Current account balance.                                                            .10
before offical capital transfers             ..         ..       -146     -239     .
Financing items (net)                         ..          ..       223      272
Changes in net reserves                        ..         ,         -77      -33     a5-
Memo:
Reserves including gold (inilL USS)           ..          ..       257       315
Conversion rate (locaUUS$)                    ..          ..        3.7      4.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976       1NS        1996    1996
(milions USS)                                                                        ComposItion of total debt, 1995 (milL US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..         ..       691      830                        G
IBRD                                         ..        ..        152      142                     F.
IDA                                          ..        ..          0         0                   15          A
Total debt service                             ..         ..         69       69
IBRD                                         ..        ..          8        10
IDA                                          ..         ..         0         0          E
223
Compositon of net resource flows
Offial grants                                .,         ,.          0        0
Offcia reditors                              ..         ..        108       57
Privatecreditors                             ..         ..          0       1S              D                 C
Foreign direct nvestment                     .           .         73       59                               2
Portfolio equity                             ,.         .,          0        0
World Bank program
Commitments                                  ..         ..         30      5S       A - IBRO                   E - Biltra
Disbursements                                ..         ..         S0        0      B- IDA    D - Othwer mujtate    F - PFivate
Principal repayments                        ..          ..          0        0      C - IMF                    G - Shortterm
Netflows                                     ..         ..         S0        0
Interest payments                           ..          ..          8       10
Net transfers                               ..         ..         42       -10
Deveopment Economics                                                                                                  U28/97
Nobt: Estimabs for economie of te former Soviet Union are subet to more tha th usual mnge of uncertainty.



IBRD 24285R3
28-
Dnestr 2   -To Nem,m,                                                                  M  O  L D O  V A
MogIv-           U  K  R  A  I N    E
o'skiyriceni  ;5  /  T.> hVinmea                           0      SELECTED CITIES
Briceni
NATIONAL CAPITAL
Sk   <   a   Soroco  '~'5        ~                       RIVERS
.48'                                                                                      48' .? .< r.I  RAILROADS
ROMANIA                            Leott                -                                  ROADS
_____________________________, ____ _ /  and  C                                      - -   INTERNATIONAL
MILESezinatX                                                                               BOUNDARIES
28~~~~~~~~~~~n
0  \ 2 <   ~\   \4  _    /   30A
3 g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T \hei W }J rT. Wld B..k
heni~ ~ ~~~~~Ore                                                Theo b..nd.ries,oo
\>~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dbsr ef W.I  B-kst                                                                G-. >
%,~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ |.g- - thV  /               2f      2g Od
~~~~~~~~~~g en                                                         Gr  NIAigo( rio_l             -
,   tb    1'+-8                                         8   f\'^/X"' "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ cri
<                Vulcanes~~~~~~~~~icet                   en e         Po
To; Ho   9                             Ca iraBlrx 
<>0]/ and Consir/ir ia
0  ~        ~~       ~       ~~~ 250 M    A,         vaT 
T. 8, @ad           m
To~ ~~~~~~~~~~                   ~Pi 1997 T



