Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3031 MD
Development Credit Agreement
(Rural Finance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 28, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3031 MD 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 28, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by Moldova Microfinance 
Alliance (MMA), Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower and 
Parts C and D of the Project will be carried out by Rural Finance Corporation (RFC) 
with the Borrower ’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will 
make available to RFC part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement; 
(C)
MMA intends to contract from the Soros Foundation (Soros) a grant in a 
principal amount equal to $200,000 to assist in financing a portion of Part A of the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into 
between MMA and Soros (the Soros Grant Agreement);
Page  2
(D)
MMAC)
The Borrower intends to contract from Gesellschaft fuer Technische 
Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) a grant in a principal amount of DEM 800,000 to assist in 
financing a portion of Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in 
an agreement to be entered into between MMA and GTZ (the GTZ Grant Agreement);
(E)
MMA intends to contract from Women's World Banking (WWB) a grant in a 
principal amount of $120,000 to assist in financing a portion of Part A of the Project 
on the terms and conditions set forth in  an agreement to be entered into between MMA 
and WWB (the WWBof Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and GTZ (the GTZ Grant Agreement); 
and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read: 
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of 
thirty (30) days, or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required 
to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, 
or (c) at any time, the Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices 
were 
engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and  appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or 
(e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit 
Account, the Association may, by notice 
to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower  to make withdrawals with respect 
to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such 
amount of the Credit 
shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
Page  3
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means an individual private farmer or individual rural 
entrepreneur who is a member of an Eligible SCA (as defined hereinafter);
(b)
“Development NGO” means a non-profit organization registered with the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Justice and established and operating under the Borrower’s Law 
on Non-Governmental Associations adopted by the Parliament of the Borrower on May 17, 
1996;
(c)
“Eligible SCA” means an SCA (as defined hereinafter) which meets the 
eligibility criteria set out in paragraph 1 of Section II of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(d)
“Lei” means the lawful currency of the Borrower;
(e)
“Operations Manual” means the operations manual to be adopted by RFC 
pursuant to Section 6.01(b) of this Agreement governing the lending policies and 
practices of RFC under Part D of the Project;
(f)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance made 
available by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
February 4, 1997 and March 3, 1997, between the Borrower and the Bank, as amended on 
June 18, 1997;
(g)
“Reference Rate” means the rate agreed from time to time between the 
Borrower and the Association for the purposes of Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement 
calculated with reference to the National Bank of Moldova’s auction rate for ninety 
(90) day funds in Lei;
(h)
“RFC” means the Rural Finance Corporation, established as a [financial] 
joint stock company pursuant to Section 6.01(b) of this Agreement joint stock company 
under the Borrower’s Law on Joint Stock Companies and registered with the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Justice under Registration No. 103092147 on November 28, 1997;
(i)
“RFC Prudential Rules” means the prudential rules for the operations of 
RFC  to be adopted by its General Assembly of Shareholders pursuant to Section 6.01(b) 
of this Agreementadopted by its Board of Directors on November 15, 1997;
(j)
“RFC Statutes” means the statutes of RFC to be adopted by the General 
Assembly of Shareholders orf RFC pursuant to Section 6.01(b) of this Agreement;
(k)
“RFC Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and RFC pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the RFC Subsidiary 
Agreement;
(l)
“RFPIU” means the rural finance project implementation unit established 
within the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance pursuant to Government Decision No. 306 
dated March 28, 1997, for the purpose of coordinating and overseeing the activities 
under the Project;
(m)
“SCA” means a savings and credit association registered with the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Justice and operating pursuant to the SCA Law and the SCA 
Prudential Rules (each as defined hereinafter);
(n)
“SCA Law” means the Law on Savings and Credit Associations of Citizens to 
be adopted by the Parliament of the Borrower and referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(o)
“SCA Loan” means a loan made or to be made to a Beneficiary by an 
Eligible SCA for a Subproject out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit 
relent to such SCA by RFC;
(p)
“SCA Prudential Rules” means the prudential rules adopted by the [General 
Assembly] of an SCAto be established from time to time by the Borrower or any state 
Page  4
regulatory body for SCAs for the financial operations of such SCASCAs, as agreed with 
the Association;
(q)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(r)
“Subloan” means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by RFC to an 
Eligible SCA for on-lending to Beneficiaries out of the equivalent of the proceeds of 
the Credit relent to RFC, on such terms and conditions as shall be consistent with the 
Operations Manual;
(s)
“Subproject” means a specific investment project for a productive 
activity which meets the criteria specified in the [Operations Manual]Operations 
Manual, to be carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of an SCA Loan; and
(t)
“Subsidiary Loan” means a loan or credit made by the Borrower to RFC for 
the purpose of on-lending to Eligible SCAs under the RFC Subsidiary Agreement pursuant 
to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i) 
expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be 
made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of  goods and services 
required for Parts B and 
C of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit; and
(ii) 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be 
paid) by an 
Eligible SCA on account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary 
under an SCA Loan 
to meet the reasonable cost of goods and, works and 
services required for the 
Subproject financed, in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Credit 
Account is requested. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to the Bank the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
Page  5
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 2008 and ending July 15, 2032.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2017 shall be 
one and one-be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: 
Page  6
(i) 
shall carry out Part B of the Project [through the RFPIU]s A and B 
of the 
Project through the RFPIU with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineeringagricultural, 
environmental, and 
technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Parts A and B 
of the Project; and 
(ii) 
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under 
this Agreement, shall cause RFC to carry out Parts C 
and D of the Project and 
MMA to carry out Part A of the Project, each 
with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural, 
environmental and 
technical practices, and shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable RFC and MMA to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project and cause RFC to carry out Parts C and D 
of the Project and MMA to carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
For the purposes of Parts C and D of the Project, the Borrower shall 
enter into a subsidiary agreement with RFC under which it shall: 
(i)
make available to RFC on a grant basis the equivalent of the 
proceeds 
allocated from time to time to Category (1) (b) of 
the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement under the RFC Subsidiary 
Agreement; and 
(ii)
shall relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to 
time to 
Category (2ies (1)(b), (3), (4)(a), (5) and (6) of 
the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement to RFC under the RFC Subsidiary 
Agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and RFC in Lei under terms 
and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Association.  Except as 
the 
Association shall otherwise agree, such terms and conditions shall include 
the following:
(A)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid 
by RFC in 
Lei to the Borrower in equal semi-annual installments 
over fifteen(A) 
thirty-five (35) years, including a grace 
period of ten (10) years in 
respect of the first SDR 
1,500,000 equivalent of amounts withdrawn 
under the 
Subsidiary Loan; and 
(B)
twenty (20) years, including a grace period of five (5) 
years;, in 
respect of the remaining amounts withdrawn 
under the Subsidiary Loan; 
(iii)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable by RFC shall 
be the 
equivalent in Lei (determined as of the date, or 
respective dates, of 
withdrawal from the Credit Account or 
payment out of the Special Account) of 
the value of the currency or 
currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
respect of Category 
(2);ies (1)(b), (3) and (4);
(iv)
interest shall be charged on the outstanding balance of a 
Subsidiary Loan at 
the following rates: (A) in respect of the first 
SDR1,500,000 outstanding 
under the Subsidiary Loan, at a rate 
equal to the rate payable by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 2.05 
of this Agreement; and (B) in respect of the balance 
of the Subsidiary 
Loan, at a rate equal to the Reference Rate.
Page  7
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the RFC Subsidiary Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the RFC Subsidiary Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for Parts B and C of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A and B of the Project of 
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of Parts 
A and B of the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause RFC to maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations and 
financial condition of RFC and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to Parts C a nd D of the Project.
Page  8
(b)
The Borrower shall cause RFC to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than [six]four months after the end of each such 
year: (A) certified copies of 
its financial statements for such year 
as so audited; and (B) the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
The SCA Law or the SCA Prudential Rules shall have been amended, 
abrogated, repealed or otherwise modified so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of the Borrower to achieve the objectives of the Project. 
(b)
The RFC Statutes or the RFC Prudential Rules shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
operations or financial condition of RFC or its ability to carry out Parts C or D of 
the Project. 
(c)
The Operations Manual shall have been amended, abrogated, repealed or 
otherwise modified without the Association’s prior approval. 
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of RFC or MMA or for the suspension 
of theirits operations. 
(e)
More than 10 percent (10%) of the total principal amount then outstanding 
of all Sub-loans made by RFC to Eligible SCAs shall have been overdue for a period of 
more than sixty (60) days.
(f)
The Soros, WWB and GTZ Grant AgreementsGTZ Grant Agreement shall have 
failed to become effective by June 30, 1998 or such later date or dates as the 
Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall 
not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
(g)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of 
the Borrower 
to withdraw the proceeds of any grant or loan made to the 
Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement providing therefor, 
or (B) any such loan shall 
have become due and payable prior to the agreed 
maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Page  9
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified:  namely that any event specified in 
paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the SCA Law, as agreed with the Association, has been adopted by the 
Parliament of the Borrower and has entered into force; 
(b)
the been established as a joint stock company and registered with the RFC 
Prudential Rules and the Operations Manual, in each case satisfactory to the 
Association, have been adopted by RFC and a General Director of RFC with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association has been appointed; and
(c)
the RFC Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and RFC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:   
(a) 
the SCA Law has been adopted and entered into force; and 
(b)
RFC has been duly established and the other actions specified in Section 
6.01 (b) have been duly taken; and
(c)
the RFC Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower and RFC in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance,
Cosmonaut Street, 7
Chisinau 277005MD-2012
Republic of Moldova
Cable address:
Telex:
228610
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  10
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Chisinau, Republic of Moldova, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
By /s/ Valeriu Chitan
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ James Parks
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Eqivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants' services
100%
and training
(a) under Part B of
     55,000
the Project
(b) under Part C of
     75,000
the Project
(2)
Goods under Part B
     40,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 80% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(3)
SCA Loans under
   2,810,000
100% of amounts
Part D of the Project
disbursed
(4)
Incremental
100%
Operating Costs
(a) of RFC
      50,000
(b) of RFPIU
      20,000
(5)
Refunding of
     550,000
Amounts due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c)
Page  11
Advance
of this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
     100,000
TOTAL
   3,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and  
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means operating expenses of each 
of RFC and RFPIU which would not have been incurred absent the Project including, but 
without limitation, staff salaries, expenses in respect of office accommodation, 
equipment and supplies, transportation and communication costs  and other 
administrative expenses. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
[$500,000]SDR 370,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2, (2), (3) and 
(4) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after October 9, 
1997.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods and works [and 
training]\02 under contracts costing less than $200,000 and; (ii) SCA  Loans, training 
and incremental operating costs; and (iii) services under contracts with consultant 
firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, and contracts with individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to establish and develop a co-operative rural 
bankingfinancial system to provide financial services to individual private farmers 
and small rural entrepreneurs.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Development of SCAs 
Establishment and development of SCAs in rural areas through the provision of 
technical assistance and training.
Part B:
Establishment of Regulatory Body for SCAs 
(1)
Establishment of a regulatory body for SCAs to [monitor compliance of SCAs with 
the SCA Rules]national supervisory and regulatory body for SCAs through the provision 
of technical assistance, auditing services, equipment and training. 
(2)
Project implementation support for the RFPIU through the provision of technical 
assistance, equipment, training and the financing of incremental operating costs.
Part C:
Establishment of RFC 
Establishment and development of RFC through the provision of technical 
assistance, auditing services and training, equipment and training and the financing 
of incremental operating costs.
Page  12
Part D:
Credit Line for SCAs 
The financing of Subprojects through SCA Loans by Eligible SCAs to 
Beneficiaries.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods under Parts B and C of the Project shall be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Shopping 
Goods under Parts B and C of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
 Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Post Review
With respect to each contract for goods under Parts B and C of the Project, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II. 
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Auditing services under Parts B and C of the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
Page  13
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $[100,000]100,000 or more the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Section I: 
Implementation 
1.
For the purposes of overall coordination and supervision of the Project 
execution, the Borrower shall maintain at all times during the execution of the 
Project the RFPIU which shall be headed by a director, whose qualifications, terms of 
reference and experience shall be satisfactory  to the Association, and who shall be 
assisted by key staff in adequate numbers satisfactory to the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
 [engage consultants to carry out Part B (1) of the Project, and by 
___________, establish and thereafter] maintain aensure that at all times during 
Project implementation, RFPIU or a national supervisory and regulatory body\02 for 
acceptable to the Association, supervises SCAs participating under Part D of the 
Project; and
(b)
by August 31, 1998, engage consultants to prepare a plan for the 
establishment and operations of a national supervisory and regulatory body under Part 
B (1) of the Project and, by March 1, 1999, establish such body taking into 
consideration the  recommendations of such consultants and the Association. 
3.
For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall, 
prior to ____________, cause RFC to enter into an agreement with MMA for the provision 
of advisory services by MMA to [RFC/SCAs]through the RFPIU, engage the services of 
Development NGOs acceptable to the Association to provide advisory services to SCAs.
4.
For the purpose of carrying out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
cause RFC to carry out its operations in accordance with the RFC 
Prudential Rules;
(b)
cause RFC to apply the procedures and guidelines set out in the 
Operations Manual; and
(c)
cause RFC to: (i) make Subloans on the terms set out in Section II of 
this Schedule, and (ii) cause Eligible SCAs to make SCA Loans on the terms set out in 
Section III of this Schedule.
Page  14
Section II:
Terms and conditions of Subloans
Subloans shall be made on terms and conditions whereby RFC shall:
1.
Make Subloans in accordance with the RFC Prudential Rules and the Operations 
Manual to SCAs which fulfill the following eligibility criteria:
(a)
the SCA has been registered in accordance with the SCA Law; is a member 
of RFC and has made [all necessary contributions]
(b)
the SCA has made all 
necessary contributions to the capital of RFC in accordance with the RFC Prudential 
Rules and RFC Statutes;
(b)
the SCA has received training from a Development NGOagency approved by 
the Association under Part A of the Project; and acceptable to the Association; 
(c)
the SCA has adopted the SCA Prudential Rulesd) the SCA is in compliance 
with the SCA Prudential Rules; and
(d)
the SCA is located in a rural area in the territory of the Borrower.
2.
Enter into Subloan Agreements with each Eligible SCA for the purpose of making 
available part of the proceeds allocated from time to time to Category (3) of the 
table set forth in Section 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement on such terms and 
conditions as shall be consistent with the RFC Prudential Rules and the Operations 
Manual. 
3.
Exercise its rights in relation to each Subloan in such manner as to protect its 
interests and the interests of  the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit.  
4.
Not assign, amend or waive any of its agreements providing for Subloans, or any 
provision thereof, without the prior approval of the Borrower and the Association.
Section III:
Terms and Conditions of SCA Loans
SCA Loans shall be on terms and conditions whereby an Eligible SCA shall: 
1.
appraise Subprojects and supervise, monitor and report on the carrying out by 
Beneficiaries of Subprojects in accordance with procedures satisfactory to RFC and the 
Association;
2.
make SCA Loans to Beneficiaries for Subprojects which meet the criteria 
specified in the Operations Manual, including, without limitation, those which are: 
(i) technically feasible and economically, financially and commercially viable; and 
(ii) in compliance with all environmental laws and standards of the Borrower and the 
guidelines for environmental assessment agreed with the Association; 
3.
make SCA Loans to Beneficiaries in accordance with the SCA Prudential Rules but 
which shall not, in any event, exceed a maximum amount of $15,000 for each SCA Loan; 
4.
exercise its rights in relation to each SCA Loan in such manner as to protect 
its interests and the interests of RFC, the Borrower and the Association; 
5.
not assign, amend or waive any of its agreements providing for SCA Loans, or any 
provision thereof, without the prior approval of RFC;
6.
require that: (i) goods, works and services to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit shall be procured at a reasonable price, account being taken also of 
other relevant factors such as time of delivery, efficiency and reliability of the 
goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor; and (ii) 
any such goods shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of Subprojects; and 76.
require that no pesticides are financed under an SCA Loan which are classified as 
Category 1 (a) or 1 (b) by the World Health Organization. 
Section IV:
Monitoring
1.
The Borrower shall:
Page  15
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; (b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 1998, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and (c)
review with the Association, by March 31, 1999, or such later date as the Association 
shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible categories” means Categories (1) and (2, (2), (3) and 
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and goods and 
works required for Subprojects and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of [$2,000,000 equivalent]SDR 1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.  
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
Page  16
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  17
