Doc=
The Wo
FOR OFFICI
Report No. P-5636-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL REFORMS SUPPORT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$250 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
NOVEMBER 21, 1991
This document has a restricted distribut-on and may be asel by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TD)
US$1.00     TD 0.8783 (average 1990)
TD 1.00 = US$1.1386
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCT                 Banque Centrale de Tunisle
(Central Bank of Tunisia)
BIS                 Bank for International Settlements
CAVIS               Caisse d'assurance vieOlesse, invalldit6 et survivants
CNRPS               Calsse nationale de retraite et de prevoyance sociale
CNSS                Caisse nationale de securite sociaie
CPG                 Compagnie des phosphates de Gafsa (Phosphate mining)
Cr4EGT              CNRPS for gas, electricity and water companies
SNCFT               Societe nationale des chemins de fers tunislens (Railways)
SNT                 Sociste nationale des transports (Road transport)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUDUC OF TUNIS
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL Ri:5:RMS SUPPORT LOAN
Lean and Pam  Sum n
The Republic of Tunisia.
US$250 million equivalent.
17 years,  including five years of grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
The  proposed  loan  would  support  Tunisia's  continued
implementation of its medium-term program of economic reforms
and its maintenance of macroeconomic stability while
overcoming the balance of payments shock caused by the Gulf
crisis.   The main areas covered under the program are-
(i) the virtual completion of the liberalization of external
trade and prices, along with institutional reforms to assist
the correct functioning of markets; (ii) reforms to promote
financial markets and to bring bank regulation gradually up to
international standards; (iii) reforms of the special
incentives to make them economically more efficient and less
costly to the budget; (iv) reform of the social security
system to enlarge its coverage and to make it more financially
viable, and reduce obstacles to labor mobility; and (v) the
establishment of coordinated external debt management, to
enable Tunisia to resort increasingly to international
financial markets.
Rbdua             The proposed loan would support the completion in all major
respects of the liberalization of external trade, prices, and
the financial sector and would permit market forces to operate
effectively.    Also  by  allowing  the  economy  to  achieve
sustained growth in the framework of internal and external
equilibrium, the reform program would provide the basis for
(i) greater employment creation;  (ii) a more viable and
diversified economy increasingly based on manufactured exports
rather than on oil exports as in the past; and (iii) restoring
Tunisia's voluntary access to commercial borrowing. Two main
risks can affect the success of the reform program and the
project.   First, the experience of the previous SAL has
demonstrated that major exogenous factors, such as severe
droughts  and  regional  tensions,   can  complicate   the
implementation of measures, particularly those that entail
transition costs. This is indeed a potent risk in the medium-
term, and argues for strong international support, including
that of the Bank and the IMF, to enable Tunisia to implement
the  difficult  but needed reforms.    However,  given  the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only L. the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Government's com-itment to the reforms, and given the expected
reduced vulnerability to exogenous factors of the economy over
time, this risk appears increasingly manageabla, with adequate
support from the international community.   The second risk
relatea to the opposition that can be expected from groups
that will be negatively aftected by increased competition
expected to result from the trade and financial liberalization
program.   Hovever, a smooth implementation of the import
liberalization program is expected because of the proposed
early announcement of the liberalization program, the system
of temporary surcharges and access to restructuring funds to
viable enterprises.   Similarly, the reforms of prudential
regulation and banking would need careful handling given that
they may entail difficult adjustments by banks, their
shareholders and some of their major clients. However, the
Government's commitment in this area is very strong, and one
of its highest priorities is the establishment of a banking
system that meets international standards.
Diebtysssnntr     The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed in three
tranches:    US$100 million upon  loan  effectiveness,  and
US$70 million and US$'0 million after the completion of a
number of key actions for the second and third tranche
releases respectively.   Release of the three tranches is
planned for end-l991, end-1992 and end-1993, respectively.
None.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL REFORMS SUPPORT LOAN
Table of Contenb
PARTI-THE ECONOMY  ......................................................                                     1
A. BACKGROUND  .....................................................    1
S. MACROECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS: 1988-91 ...............................  2
C. IMPLEMENTATION OF REFORMS ..............                      ...........................  5
PART II - THE ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL REFORM  PROGRAM   ..........................  6
A. THE MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK ..........                          ...........................  7
Monitoring Macroeconomic Perfornance .................................  8
B. TRADE, PRICES AND COMPETITION ............                     ...........................  9
C. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR  ...........               ................  ..................  10
Financial Markets .............                  .........................   10
Supervision and Prudential Regulation of Banks ...........            ................  12
Lending Rates  ......................................  14
D. SPECIAL INCENTIVES .............                      .........................   15
E. SOCIAL PROTECTION ............                       ..........................   16
Social Security Funds ....................................... 16
Consumer Subsidies ................                   ......................   17
PART III - THE PROPOSED LOAN ......................                                                          18
A. LOAN AMOUNT, TRANCHING AND CONDITIONAUTY  .......                           ..................  18
B. COFINANCING ....................................................    20
C. BENEFITS AND RISKS  ................................................  20
D. COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF .                .......................................  20
E. PROCUREMENT, LOAN ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT .....                             .............  21
PART IV - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS ...........                       ............................  22
A. BANK EXPERIENCE WITH ADJUSTMENT LENDING IN TUNISIA .....                           .............  24
B. IFC INVESTMENTS ...................................................  26
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS ,AND AU`HOIii7Y ..................................... 26
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION ...................................................  26
ANNEXES:         Exteral Debt Management
lAter of Development Policy and Pdicy Matrices
Key Macroeconomic Indlcators
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
MAP:             IBRD No. 18707 (Attached)



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL REFORMS SUPPORT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$250 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
1.           I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Econom'c and Financial
Reforms Support Loan to the Republic of Tunisia In an amount equivalent to US$250 million. I would
provide financlal support for the last phase of the Govemment's structural adjustment program and the
accompanying Institutlonal reforms, to enable the economy to become more modem, open and private
sector-based. The loan would have a term of 17 years, includlhg five years of grace, at the standard variable
Interest rate and will be ccdfinanced by Japan and the European Commission.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A. BACKGROUND
2.           Despite modest natural resources, Tunisia has the makings of a relatively advanced
developing country, largely because of consistent emphasis over a long period on the development of the
human resources and prudent macroeconomic policies. Thanks to these priorities, In 1990, Its per capita
income of US$1,420 was surpassed In Africa only by some OPEC countries and Mauritius, and its social
Indicators only by Mauritius. The country's infrastructure is adequate and well rmaintained, its non-oil exports
were growing rapidly untii the Gulf crisis erupted, and it has never rescheduled its external debt nor is it
likely to need to In the foreseeable future.
3.           Nonetheless, the country did pass through a period of Imprudent macroeconomic
management that brought it close to a balance of payments crisis In the mid-1980s. Although not severe
in comparison to what many other countries have underjone, this experience prompted reflection In the
Govemment on some of the policies that had been pursued. Events had confirmed the necessity of
prudence In macroeconomic management. But the Govemment also confronted a basic Issue, namely
whether the economrys efficiency did not need to Improve if future balance of payments problems were to
be avolded.
4.           The Issue of economic efficiency had to be confronted because the brief oil boom Tunisia
had experienced In tie second half of the 1970s had been stopped In 1980 by faling worid oil prices and
depletion of ott reserves, and the sequel had been large macroeconomic deficits. At the peak of the boom
In 1979, oil accounted for 31.0 percent of export eamings and 17.5 percent of budget revenue. Through
the late 1970s this permited Investment levels close to 30 percent of GDP and rapid wage Increases without
major external Imbalancs But Investment continued unabated after 1980 and wage increases only began
to slow down In 1983. For the first time, Tunisia consistently had large macroeconomic Imbalances: over
1980-86 the curnt account deficit averaged 7.9 percent of GDP and the budget deficit 5.6 percent. By
1986 a balance of payments crisis was clearly threatening and the authorities responded by restraining
demand- through cutting Investment, holding wages down, and tightening monetary policy- and by
deWuing the dinar In real terms by 14.3 percent over the year. These measures succeeded In forestalling
a crisis, but the question had been posed: how could the Tunisian economy, In the face of declining ol
exports and wth te addition of the debt Incurred in the Immediately preceding years, continue to grow at
rates compable to those of the past?



.2 -
5.           The Govemment's basic answer to this question was: through an Improvement in the
eficiency of the economy that could be refiected In lower ICORs and, thence, In smaller resource gaps. it
recognized that this could only be achieved by relying primarily on the private sector and orienting the
economy increasingly outward. This necessarily Implied extensive liberalization, since the economy was too
permeated with administrative contrc!s for markets to function effectively. The vislon of the Govemment
went even further. It sought to assure the Tunisian ezonomy's future by attracting substantial direct foreign
Investment and modem technology as an open economy with a convertible currency.
6.           This set an agenda for thoroughgoinj change In almost every segment of the economy.
Progress In the agenda has been broad and h;A ;,een rnade In close dialogue with the Bank and with its
support through five adjustmernt operations. The agenda Is, however, larger tilan the programs supported
by these operations and, because of exogenous circbmstances and Internal difficulties, its Implementation
has, In cerain respects, fallen behind the tir-etable the Govemment had set itself. Even then, the main
reforms carried out under the adjustment programs are substantial (for details on the Bank operations, see
Part IV). The Govemment also carried out some major reforms Independently of these programs, notably
the liberalization of banking, the virtual creation of the money market, and reform of stamp duties and
registration fees.
B. MACROECONOMIC DEVELQPMENTS: 198-B1
7.           The major features of the economy's performance since 1986 have been the strong export
performance and the Improvement In macroeconomic balances, which together account for a robustness
that the economy had not displayed eariler. The demand restraint, devaluation, and other measures taken
In 1986 and after, together with strong demand from the EEC, resulted In growth of manufactured exports
and tourism that offset the loss of oU export eamings. The economy was able to weather two droughts, In
1988 and 1989, with positive growth, whereas droughts In previous years normally resulted In declines in
GDP. Both the balance of payments and the budget Improved (see Table 1).
8.           The Improvement In the current account was due both to the growth of non-og sxports and
a fall In the level of Investment. Although oil expons stagnated, the average growth of total exports over the
period was 13.5 percent per annum. With Investment a lower share of GDP and a saving rate varying
between 16 percent and 19 percent, the resource gap fell from an average of 8.5 percent of GDP In 19804 5
to 3.0 percent In 1986.89. The consequent Improvement In the current account stopped the deterioration
In debt Indicators; the ratios of debt to GDP and of debt service to exports, which had averaged
48.2 percent and 18.6 percent respectively In 1980-85, reached their peaks of 70.0 percent and 28.2 percent
In 1987 and declined to 61.0 percent and 23.4 percent in 1990 (see Figure 1).



- 3 -
FIGURE 1: TUNISIA: SELECTED MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
DEBT INDICATO.S                    REAL EXCHANGE RTE AND TERMS OF TRADE
Q.7 ._____ _____I_______.
0*-   --   l    l ll- --                     ' 
0,4 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
DEBTINDCTOR ACCOUN  ANDBUD 0TDEF00
0.   . 
0.1  -
19031196801 16 1986 1982 68 1968318 1980  1698 161 961987 68 198888 1986 68 199 08019
- CoboW mGP ntt  WDOW-.Sctwetos Ni         I- at -Emma" Rat. -'Ibfue of TiadSi
CURRENT ACCOUNT AND BUDGET DEFICIT
In Percent of GDP
0.02
0
-0.08 
-0.1 
1980  1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990
Source: Ministry of Planning and Regional Development, and Bank estimates



-4-
Tt3ble 1:  EMSC PEF1UC
1980-85    1986-89      1990        1991
Average    Average               'iorecaat)
GDP Growtb Rates (2 p.a.)               4.2         3.5        7.1         3.0
Current Account/GDP (I)                -7.9        -2.8       -5.3        -5.0
Non-oil Export Growth Rate
(S p.a.)                   4.3        16.7        5.9        -2.3
Investment/GDAP ()                     30.3        21.6       26.6        24.1
Budget Deficit/GDP (Z)                 -5.6        -4.0       -3.8        -3.4
9.            Even in the most stringent times, the major social objectives were maintained Intact. The
success of consistuint emphasis on poverty reduction, social development, and family planning distinguishes
Tunisia from many other countries at similar Income levels. Budgetary difficulties In the mid-1980s
demanded substantial cuts In food subsidies thereby threatening severe hardship for the poor. The
authorities did Indeed reduce subsidles from 5 percent to 2.9 percent of GOP. However, they did so by
raising most the prices of goods consumed less by the very poor and by maintaining targeted programs,
such as free basic health care and school materials for the very poor. A marked reduction in population
growth from 2.5 percent a year to 2.1 percent, and possibly lower, has occurred through the general effect
of social development and through Incentives in the socW security system.
10.           1990 promised to be the first fully normal year since the early 1980s, until the onset of the
Gulf crisis. Rainfall was good and agricultural production recovered to the level of 1987, contributing
13.5 percent to GDP growth. Expons of manufactures continued to grow strongly, apart from the loss of
the growing Iraqi market, though tourism slackened, partly because the crisis affected the late season. Fixed
inm.-stment began a vigorous recovery, rising 19 percent to reach 23 percent of GDP. But the lost earnings
from exports to Iraq, including merchandise ready for shipment and payments on previous exports,
amounted to US$184 million. Capital Inflows from Arab funds and direct foreign Investment were also
Interrupted. Furthermore, because of the prospects of war, the authorities encouraged the buDd-up of
stocks, which rose by the equivalent of 3.4 percent of GOP. The outcome was that GDP grew 7.1 percent
that year, the current account deficit Increased to 5.3 percent of GDP, and reserves fell from 2.5 months'
Imports at end-1989 to 1.7 months' Imports at end-1990.
11.          The outbreak of war had immediate and severe repercussions on Tunisia, mitigated only
by exceptionaily good rz!nfall. Tourism fell and, because of continulng regional tenslons, failed to recover
sinificantly with time. For 1991, the volume of tourism Is expected to be 33 percent less than In 1990.
Manufactured exports were also affected and are expected to grow only by 10.0 percent In 1991, compared
to a 14.6 percent growth In 19. Allowing for the decline in Imports of Inputs for exports and tourism, the
net loss of export eamings in 1991 is estimated at about 5 percent of GDP. That GDP Is still expected to
Increase by 3.0 percent Is entirely due to the excellent harvest and the existence of large stocks. The
Govemment acted quickly to restrain demand with a supplementary budget In March 1991, which Increased
revenue by 1.8 percent of GDP and cut expenditures, thus limitlng the budget deficl to 3.4 percent of GDP.
Nevertheless, even with IMF support, reserves at the end of 1991 are expected to be only equal to
1.6 months' Imports.



-5-
C. IMPLEMENTATION OF REFORIMS
12.          The reforms of the last few years have dismantled numerous constraints on private initiative
and have conceded much of the State's dominance of the ecorY'my to the private sector. With the lifting
In 1987 of prior authorization requirements on private Investment, the State relinquished Its most powerful
Instrumenit for directing private actMty. Prior authorization Is now only required for linvestments for whlch
the advanvtages of special Incentives are being sought. A number of activities that were reserved to the
public sector, such as 4stribution of agricultural Inputs and Importation o' certain foodstuffs, are now open
to private entrepreneurz. A privatization program has been progressing successfully and has about
30 enterprises to its credit. The private sector's share of fixed Investment has also Increased; fron. below
40 percertt In th a late 1970$ it has Increased to over 50 percent In 1988-90.
13.          An essential part of the move to the private sector and market mechanisms has been the
liberalization of banking since 1987. Prior authorization requirements for almost all credits have been lifted.
Interest rates are free except for caps on sight deposits and a cap on deposit bank' lending rates, which
can, nonetheless, reach 15 percent as compared to an Inflation of 6-7 percent per annum. One 4 the
objectives of liberalizng banking was to create conditions for more effective Indirect monetary mianagemenvt.
The development of a money market has been an essentia step in this direction, In 1987, the Central Bank
limited rediscounting to providing liquidity at penalty rates and to preferenvtial credits, which are low interes
loans accorded under the special Incentives schemes. Also the Central Bank does not normally Impose
reserve requirements. Money supply is managed through the Central Bank's weekly provIsion of liquidity
through an auction process on the money market, and the "money market rate", by which several other
Interest rates In the economy are determined, directly or indirectly, Is the Inter-bank rate. Currently this rats
Is 11 7/8 percent. The term "money market" Is used In a wider sense as well, to include certificates of
deposits tind commercial paper which were Introduced In 1987-88 and may have maturities of up to five
years. In 1989, Treasury bills were Introduced with yields that made them attractive t% ~he general public.
These developments are creating new competition In the financilW sector and graduai.y' widening the array
of financial Instruments available.
14.          Reform of taxation has replaced distortionary and complicated direct and Indirect taxes with
taxes that are simple and economically rational, It has already yielded widespread benefits; the removal of
numerous fiscal distortions In financial transactions Is a typical example. Under the programs supported
by the Bank, a multitude of Indirect taxes was gradually grouped around a few tax rates and then, In 1988,
replaced by a value-added tax (VAT) on producton. The VAT was extended In 1989 to wholesale
distribution, with the exception of foodstuffs. The c Id system of direct taxation, wh!ch was complicated and
uneven In Its Incidence and, consequently, unjust, was replaced In 1990 by new direct taxes on personal
Incomes and profits that are simple and low (the maximum rate on Incomes and profits Is 35 percent). In
particular their transparency Is ensured by the absence of double taxation, e.g., of profits at the corporate
level and dMdends as personal Income. Customs duties have also been towered and simplifie; from over
200 percent fth maximum Import duty has been reduced to 43 percent and the structure of rates has been
rationalized, while export duties have been removed from all but a handful of items.
15.          These measures have gone far to remove impediments to private enterprise, but the opening
of the domestic market to foreign competition has been slower, In 1988 over 90 percent of domestic
agricultural and manufacturing production was protected by non-tariff restrictions on Imports. The
Govemment has long recognized that Improved economic efficien.cy presupposes that restrictIons on
Imports be removed, and had set itself the objective of removing all these restritions, excepting those on
.1/    There are I. deposit banks and 8 development banks.



-6 -
certain subsidized items of basic consumption and a few luxury goods, by end-1992. But, with the
proiciged sluggishness of Investment, the rising unemployment and the effects of the droughts In 1988 and
1989, Its progress haa been hesitant. At present about 70 percent of agricultural and nianufacturing
production remains protected by Impon restrictions. The removal of quantitative Import restrictions
constitutes one of the most ambitious components of the program supported by the proposed loan.
PART II - THE ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL REFORM PROGRAM
16.          The proposed loan would support Tunisia's efforts to restore the economy qu!ckly to
adequate and sustained economic growth on the basis of macroeconomic stability, and to formulate and
implement reforms tc remove the major remalailng obstacles to the efficient operation of markot forces, while
ensuring basic protection to the poor. There wouid be five main areas of reform: (1) One of the major
obstacles to efficient markets Is the high level of protection through Import restrictions. Producer prices
have been mostly freed but distribution margins are mostly controlled. The reforms will liberalize Imports
and most prices. (11) Financial markets are mainly limited to the short term, and the reforms will remove the
fiscal distortions and Treasury borrowing practices that obstruct the markets In long-term bonds and equity.
The loan wil also support the strengthening of the regulatory framework of banking and the gradual
application of higher prudential standaro4. The remalning llmits on lending rates will be removed.
(i)ii Tunisia has a system of special Incentives that is Inefficient and costly to the budget. It will be replaced
by a unified code that accords a limited set of fiscal and financial advantages for a few clearly defined cases
of market failure. (iv) The social security system is costly to the budget ano fails to cover a substantial part
of the population, which depends on targeted assistance. The reforms will broaden coverage in a financially
viable manner, while providing basic cover to tie needy. The present system of consumer subsidies has
been a costly way of helping the poor since all consumers benefit from it, regardless of their needs. The
Govemment has formulated a program for reducing its cost, while targeting the subsidies better to the poor.
(v) Tunisia will, In the coming years, resort to international financial markets since it has an unblemished debt
service record. The loan will support its efforts to create the requisite skills and institutional arrangements
to manage these more complex debt transactions.
17.          Up to now the emphasis of reforms has been on removing obstacles to the private sector.
The reforms supported by the proposed loan will aim at making the private sector more efficlent and
ensuring that It Is supported by a sounder and more market orlented financial system. Increasing external
competition wHil Improve the efficiency of existing enterprises, and remove the excessive protection that
diverted Investment to economically Inefficient activities. Since Tunisia encourages direct foreign investment,
the reforms wIll Increase the attractiveness of the economy to foreign capita', especially as a base for
exports to Europe. The expected outcome will be a further strengthening of the outward orientation of the
economy with the private sector Increasing its z,le and gradually moving to technologically more advanced
activitles. At the same time the reform of the social security system will remove some of the hindrances to
labor mobility. Reforms of the education sector that the Bank would support through a Higher Education
Project would increase the supply of suitable skills. Although some enterprises are likely to close because
of the external competition and jobs will be lost as a result, the Increasing growth led by exports is likely
to reduce the unemployment rate gradually from its present level of around 15 percent.



-7 -
A. THE MACROECQNOMIQ FRAMEWO8K
18.          The nacroeconomic objective of the Loan is to support Tunisia In overcoming the effects
of the Gulf crisis and enable it to return to the pattem on which it was settling: annual GDP growth rates
of around 5 percent with the non-interest current account close to balance and the govemment deflcit
dedining from 3.4 peruent of GDP In 1991 to 2.0 percent by 1996. Tables outlining the framework for 1991-
96 are in Annex iii. As already stated, the feasibility of this objective depends on continued Improvement
In the efficiency of the economy.
19.          Export-led growth. A good part of the efficiency galn would result from the growing
importance of non-ogl exports, whose ratio to GDP is expected to Increase from 37 percent to 46 percent
over the decade. Although both private and public consumption will be growing slower than GDP, per
capita private consumptio Is expected to grow 2-3 percent a year after 1992. Gross domestic saving will
Increase modestly from aroundi 19 percent of GDP In recent years to around 22 percent in the second half
of the 1990s. The share of Investment In GDP will be lower In 1991 and 1992 than In 1990, but w0i then rise
to around 25 percent, well below the levels of the late 1970s and early 1980s, but adequate given the
expected higher economic efficlency.
20.          A viable balance of payments. By balancing the non-Interest current account, Tunisia
would slowly reduce the ratio of debt to GDP from 61.3 percent In 1991 (and about 70 percent In 1987) to
around SQ percent by 1997, and the debt service ratio from 25.5 percent to around 15 percent. The current
account deficit would decline over the same period from 5.0 percent to about 2 percent. The adjustment
to the balance of payments shock of the Gulf crisis wIll occur in 1991 and 1992. In 1992, restriction of
consumption growth, through restraints on wages and salaries, wUi permit a reduction of the current account
deficit to 2.9 percent of GDP and an Increase In reserves to 1.8 months' Imports. After that reserves wiil
grow gradually to 2.9 montis Imports in 1996, not a high level, but within the limits of prudence. Borrowing
would be above the exceptionally low average of 1987-89, which was due to specil factors, but the net
transfer of resources would be oniy i.6 percent of GDP In 1991 and would decline to zero at the end of the
decade, whereas commitments would be In line with past trernds. An Increasing part of the financing would
need to come from private sources since official sources will be llmited notably by demands from other
countries. Tunisia is well placed to attract direct foreign Investment and Is actively encouragilng it, but a
prudent forecas 's that it will remain roughly equal to 1.4 percent of GDP rising from US$185 mllon in 1990
to US$262 million In 1996.
21.          Greater reliance on financing from private sources will entail Improved management of
extemal debt. Tunisia has never needed to reschedule its extemal debt and has had a good track record
of timely servicing. However, greater access to financial markets, by the Central Govemment as well as the
domestic banks and enterprises, will require a new level of skills and Institutional capabilities. The proposed
Loan would support measures for better coordination of debt management among the various govemment
entities, creation of a unified data base, and modemization of legislation to facilitate normW hedging and
borrowing (see Annex 1). While no specific tranche conditionality is being attached to this component, It
wuil be part of the overall review of the development policies.
22.          Relative decline of the public sector. The shares In GDP of the govemment's revenue,
expenitures, and deficits will decline steadily. Expenditures will fall from 31 percent of GDP In 1991 to
about 26 percent In 1996 anci the deficit from 3.4 percent to 2 percent. The trend of recent years d an
Increasing priate sector share In fixed Investment by enterprises will continue, while fixed investments by
the central govemment wil, decline modestly as a share of GDP.



-8 -
23.           The budgetary cost of the reform program. The projectlons of the Govemment budget
take into account the Implementation of the reforms supported by the loan, whose net effect, on present
estimates, will be a marginal loss. Large costs due to some measures are almost offset by gains due to
others. Most of the losses are likely to arise from the reform of the banking system (see paragraph 45).
The remaining significant losses will arise from the Treasury's transition to borrowing on market terms,
!nstead of at the low Interest rates on its bons d'eauloement, and its eariy redemption of most of the
outstanding stock of the bons d'4auioement. The main offsetting gain will be the revenue generated by
temporary surcharges as Imports are liberalized (see paragraphs 25-26). A smaller saving will be obtained
from the reform of special incentives, through reduction of tax advantages and Increases in the costs of
preferential credits (see paragraphs 49-51). At this stage these estimates are tentative. Reliable date on the
costs of banking reform will only be available once the prudential reforms this loan would support are In
place. Similarly the extent to which the Treasury recoups the costs arising from the reform in its borrowing
practices wIll deperid on the effects the reform program has on the behavior of the financial Institutions that
hold its paper. Estimates of revenue gains from Imports are based on econometric analysis, but are
sensitive to changes In a number of economic parameters. Because of these uncertaintles, the banking
reforms and macroeconomic program give particular emphasis to monitorlng the budgetary Implicatlons of
the reforms.
Monitoring Macroeconomic Performance
24.           Macroeconomic performance would be monitored through reviews on the basis of a
periodilcaiy updated framework and selected economic Indicators (see Table 2). The framework will be next
updated after the establishment of the program for 1992 with the IMF. These indicators would not be
performance criteria, but deviations from forecast values would be the basis for discussions between the
Tunisian authoritles and the Bank on corrective measures. Such corrective measures would Indude demand
management through policies on credit to the economy, government expenditure, wage and salary
movements, and exchange rate policies. The indicators would be updated every six months on the basis
of data fumished In advance of the discussions by the authoritles.
Table 2:  A    C         INDICACRS
(in percent)
l99n   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
GDP Growth                             7.1    3.0    2.8    4.8    5.2    5.2    5.1
Current Account/GDP                    5.3    5.0    2.9    2.9    2.5    2.5    2.2
Budset Deficit/GDP                     3.8    3.4    2.7    2.5    2.3    2,2    2.0
Debt Service/GDP                      11.2   11.1   10.3    9.1    8.5    8.3    7.6
Net Transfer of Resources/GODP         1.1    1.6    0.5    0.9    0.8    0.7    0.6
Manufactured Exports Growth           14.6   10.0    7.9    7.8    7.5    8.0    8.0
Private Borrowing/
Total Borrowing                     71.9   61.9   64.5   68.3   70.6   71.3   71.9
Budgetary Interest Payments/
Government Revenue                  10.9   10.7   13.6   13.4   12.9   12.5   12.0



-9v
Viability of the balance of payments. Tunisia Is In the position of being able to reduce
its external debt burden gradually, without recourse to debt relief, while avoWing a net
transfer of resources out of the country. This Is the path taken In the macroeconomic
framework. But the plth Is narrow. Hence, to monitor whether the economy is moving
along or off the path, the two appropriate Indicators are: (a) the ratlo of total external debt
service to GDP, and (b) the net transfer of resources.
Export performance. Part of the outward orientation of the economy consists In tiie
growth of non-oil exports. But, since of the two major non-oil exports, manufactures and
tourism, tourism Is more subject to external Influences and less to domestic policy, the
Indicator most suitable for policy decisions Is the growth of manufactured exports.
Private sector access to resoutrces. To ensure that the private sector Is not crowded out,
its access to resources needs to be monitored. The most appropriate Indicator, which is
the one that will be monitored, Is the share of the private sector In total net domestic and
external borrowing.
The viability of the govemment budget. Since budget deficits are almost entirely financed
without recourse to the Central Bank, the accumulation of Govemment debt needs to be
monitored to ensure long-term stability, especially since the cost of domestic borrowing wfll
be Increased by the reform program (see paragraphs 31-32). One indicator would be
monitored: the ratio of budgetary interest payments to Govemment revenue.
B. TRADE. PRICES AND COMPETITION
25.          Import liiberallzatlon. An essential conditlon for achieving the improvement In economic
efficiency that the Government Is aiming for will be a substantial reduction in the degree of protection of
domestic prodbuction from external competitlon. At present, about 70 percent of production In manufacturing
and agriculre Is protected by Import restrictions. There is, however, no black market premium on foreign
xchange, which indicates that the figure of 70 percent may overstate the protection. One reason mnay be
that restrictions apply to production categories that weigh heavily In domestic production, but are mostly
export oriented. Another is that the authorities readily permit Imports where shortages or monopolistic
behavior might occur. Under the program supported by the loan all Import restrictions will be lifted by the
end of 1993, except for goods accounting for two thirds of textile production, subsidized artides of basic
consumption, a few luxury goods not produced In Tunisia, and security related items. Yam Imports will,
however, be free in 1993 and the Government Is committed to liberaltzing all textile Imports In 1994.
26.          Before the gains from this rapid liberalization of Imports can be reaped, many segments of
the economy will go through a difficult transition since the level of tariff protection Is moderate. The highest
Import tariff is 43 percent and the unweighted average Is 28 percent. The authoritles are especleily
concemed about unemployment that could result from enterprise closures caused by liberalization.
Urneployment has crept above 15 percent and the authorities feel they have gone to the brink with job
losses from dosures and restructuring of public enterprises. These concems and the temporary job losses
caused by the droughts delayed trade liberaization In the past. The authorities, therefore, propose to ease
the transition for enterprises that wHil face Increased external competitlon by instituting a system of temporary
surctwges for a nwdmum period of about three years. They will also follow a detaied timetable that wlil
be announced In advance to remove uncertainties that might arise over the timing of the liberalization for
indvdual products. The Bank's proposed Industrial Finance Loan would support enterprises In



- 10-
Implementing plans to adapt their production and products to Import competition, and also support the
acquisition of the technical capabilities needed to design and carry out such plans.
27.          Distulbution margins. Calculated using domestic production weights, only 29.8 percent
of distribution margins are free. The Government aims to free all distribution margins, Including those on
imports, by end-1994. The choice of date Is determined by the lack of competition In distribution. The
number of wholesalers In any product Is small because of administrative restrictions on entry, which have
recently been lifted through legislation prepared under the SAL program, and the authorities believe that a
year Is needed between the liberalization of the Import of a good and liberalization of Its distribution margins
to give time for the growth of competition In its distribution. Given this objective, 60 percent of distribution
margins, measured using absorption weights, will be freed by end-1993. This would be equivalent to
72.5 percent measured using production weights if all the goods concemed were domestically produced.
28.          Producer prices. Over 70 percent of production prices are free and the remainder will be
freed during 1992, w:'th t.he exception of natural monopolies and subsidized articles of basic consumption.
C. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
29.          Having made substantial progress in liberalizng banking and developing the money market,
the Tunisian authoritles are taking steps to extend the role of market mechanisms in the financial sector and
to strengthen the supervision and prudential regulation of banks. As outlined In paragraph 13, prior
authorization requirements on bank lending have been lifted and Interest rates are largely free. Moreover
the money market Is an effective short-term market and has been the scene of financial innovation. The next
step will be to develop other financial markets. The Government's program will remove the obstacles to the
effective operation of markets in fixed Interest securities of all maturities and In equity. Tunisia's system of
banking supervision and prudential regulation is more complete than in most developing economies, but
the authorities recognize that it needs to be strengthened to meet the needs of a liberalized banking system.
Hence, the Govemment's program will, In stages, bring the supervislon and prudential regulation of banks
Into conformity with international standards. The program will also remove the last administrative control
on lending rates.
Financial Market
30.          The two maln steps In developing financial markets are to remove obstacles to the
avaiablity of bonds (maturities of more than one year) and shares for trading, and to reduce the fiscal
advantages of certain liquid bank accounts that attract savings away from bonds and shares. To remedy
the dearth of bonds and shares that can realistically be traded, which prevents the development of
secondary markets, the authorities will reform the Treasury's borrowing practices, replace most of the stock
of bonds Issued by the Treasury at below-market yields, and remove the fiscal distortions that discourage
resale of bonds or shares. The mark3t framework is satisfactory, as a result of recent reforms and training
programs In the bgurse. on which bonds and shares are traded, and these measures will extend the
operation of market mechanisms beyond the confines of the money market. A successful first step beyond
the money market occurred In 1989 wlth the introduction of Treasury bills (maturities of less than a year,
which offer yieds of around 10 percent, enough to make them attractive to the general public and
enterprises, and which are freely bought and sold through the banks. For comparison, inflation is
6-7 percent per year and the current money market rate is about 12 percent.



- 11 -
31.          Treasury paper. The emphasis on Treasury paper Is due to its preponderance among
bonds. The total stock of bonds, Treasury and corporate, was about TD 1,565 million at end-1990, and
TO 1,276 million consisted of bons d66aulpment, ten year bonds with coupons of 8 1 /8 percent, whose
yields are too low to attract voluntary purchases.2 But deposit banks are obliged to hold up to 20 percent
of their deposits In these bonds, and held TD 964 million at end-1990. Virtually all the rest were held by
insurance companies, which must place 50 percent of their technical reserves in these bonds, and social
security funds according to agreements with the Treasury. The low yield represents a tax on the financial
system ancd, if the bonds were to be resold, it would be at a big discount entailing a realized capital loss.
Because of this and tax distortions affecting the resale of other bonds, the face value of bonds that can
realistically be traded on the bourse is only TD 120 million.
32.          To permit the resale of its paper, without capital losses, the Treasury will issue new bonds
at market yields and redeem all bons d'6quipement issued after 1988 by 1996. Wth the simultaneous
maturing of the older bons d&6auipement, at most 33 percent of the present stock would be outstanding at
the end of 1986. The additional cost to the Treasury from the redemption will rise gradually to
TD 53.4 million in 1996. No bons dcl'uiDement will be issued after 1991. To facilitate the redemption of
these bonds deposit banks will, for the time being, continue to be obliged to place 20 percent of their
deposits in Treasury paper (including short-term bills), but they will be able to purchase the paper on the
secondary market if they choose. The possibility of reducing the 20 percent requirement will be reviewed
before third tranche. The obligations of Insurance companies and social security funds will be addressed
under the Investment guidelines that will be adopted as part of the reform of the social security system (see
paragraph 55).
33.          Taxation of bonds. The removal of fiscal distortions that discourage resale of bonds will
also accelerate the supply of bonds available for trading. These distortions have held back trading, although
the Treasury has allowed corporations to issue bonds more frequently In recent years and the need for its
approval was lifted in June 1991. The Government has also twice issued bonds at yields that attracted the
general public, the Emprunt National, amounting to TD 112 million outstanding at end-1990. But roughly
half of every boncd Issue Is designated 'A' bonds, meaning that primary purchases can be deducted from
taxable Income up to a limit of 35 percent, provided they are held five years (Law 62-75). They have lower
coupons than "B" bonds, which are taxed normally. In addition sectoral Investment codes also offer tax
Incentives for the reinvestment of eamings In certain primary Issues. Consequently, the only bonds that are
Issued at near market terms and hence avallable for trading are the "B' bonds.
34.          Taxation of shares. The removal of fiscal distortions caused by the Law 62-75 will also
Increase the availabiity of shares for trading since the law offers the same advantages for the primary
purchases of shares as for bonds, provided the shares are held two years. Another stimulus to the supply
of shares wUi come from the reform of the sectoral Investment codes (see paragraphs 47-50). These codes
encourage debt financing and reinvestment of eamings In equity, thus reinforcing the propensity In Tunisia
for families and small groups to maintain control over firms. Hence they llmit the supply of shares and deter
the public from buying them. Nonetheless, the mobilization of financing through share Issues will only
develop gradually since pattems of ownership and financing will not change quickiy and since the public
wil take time to gain confidence In Investments In shares.
2/    dons d'4auliement Issued before 1989 carried coupons of 6.5 percent but carried tax advantages
that made their yield the equivalent of the later Issues. They are not being redeemed before
maturky because of legislative complications that would arise from the tax advantages. At end-1991
they will account for about 40 percent of the face value of all bons d'gauloement.



- 12 -
35.          TaXation of mutual funds. Reform of the taxation of bonds and shares will make it easier
to solve the tax problems that have obstructed the Issue of open-end mutual funds. A few closed-end funds
(StCAFs) have been issued on the basis of special tax arrangements with the authorities, but open-end funds
(SICAVs) face two problems. One problem arises from the transparency of the new direct tax laws
Introduced in the Loi de Finances for 1990, whereby profits taxed at the corporate level are not again taxed
as personal Income. This means that the dividends paid by a SICAV would either not be taxed as personal
Income, thus permitting the SICAV's eamings on bonds to go untaxed, or the SICAV's earnings from equity
would be taxed twice. The other problem is that SICAVs would be at a disadvantage compared to directly
held shares In that they could not benefit from the Law 62-75. Two alternatives are to separate dividends
arising from fixed Interest securities and shares, or to apply a moderate withholding tax.
36.          The tax treatment of special saving accounts makes it difficult for secondary markets to
compete against banks for savings. These accounts are sight deposits, using passbooks and not checks,
intenided to attract small savings to banks by offering Interest at two points below the money market rate,
though the cap on sight deposits Is otherwise 2 percent. There are no other administrative controls over
Interest rates, but the liberalization of sight deposits rates Is Inadvisable before the program of reform of
prudentla regulation of banking Is carried out (see paragraphs 39-40). These deposits are llmited to
TD 5,000, but banks accept much larger deposits since they are cheaper sources of funds than the
alternatives and since an Individual can have an account in each of the twelve deposit banks. Their
attraction to big savers was that they were tax exempt until 1990, and even now the first TD 1,000 of Interest
remains tax exempt and the retention at source of 10 percent is lower than the 15 percent for other
Instruments. Other less liquid Instruments cannot easily compete. Since the authorities wish to maintain
the original pur,jse of helping small savers, they are considering reducing the fiscal advantages of these
accounts. Hiwever, since this requires more controls to ensure that the limits on the accounts are
observed, they are also considering the alternative of reducing the Interest on savings deposits by one point.
37.          Fiscal reforms. A new law on taxation of savings and financiainstruments will be
promulgated In the Lol de Finances for 1992. Among other things, it will:
(1)    maintain the transparency of direct taxation and avoid multiple taxation;
(ii)   encourage net investment In financial instruments, without distinction between
primary and secondary Issues;
(Ii)   remove obstacles to the Introduction of open-end mutual funds; and
(iv)   bring taxation of bank deposits Into line with taxation of other Instruments.
SuRoerislon and Prudential Regulatlon of Banks
38.          Although not up to Bank for Intemational Settlements (BIS) standards, the supervision and
prudential regulation of banks In Tunisia are moderately good and have enabled the Central Bank to manage
the recent liberalization smoothly. They also give reasonable assurance that the danger of a financial crisis
In the near future Is minimal, despite the considerable number of loans made In eariler years with Inadequate
attention to financila viability. Nonetheless there are major shortcomings and some banks have Inherited
problems from the past. The program to address these Issues will have four components. One will
strengthen the Central Bank's prudential regulations. The second will strengthen on-site examination and
surveillance of banks. The third wili introduce amendments to banking legislation. And the fourth wvil
consist of auditing, Inspection and action programs to bring banks gradually up to BIS standards of capital
adequacy. The first three components will occur during the loan period, though further Improvements can



-13 -
be expected after that. The fourth Is likely to take several years and, therefore, will stretch out after the loan
Is closed.
39.           Prudential regulation. The reforms will build on the existing regulations. The present loan
dassiflcation system (substandard, doubtful, losses), which was introduced In 1987, has subjective criteria
that have functioned well. its objective criteria will be made more stringent by shortening the seniority of
arrears to international norms (90, 120, 360 days). Minimum provisioning rules, also corresponding to
Intermational norms (20 percent, 50 percent, 100 percent) and Interest suspension will be Introduced for all
categories of classified loans. Tax exemptions for speciflc provisions will be raised from 20 percent to
26 percent and the advisability of a higher exemption will be studied. The calculation of t.ne seniority of
arrears will not be affected by loan renewals, extensions, or rescheduling, unless interest Is effectively paid.
Reschedulings will be closely monitored and any Interest capitalization will be subject to new guarantees
and a satisfactory respect of the new terms. Furthermore, any lack of information to evaluate a loan or a
deterioratlon In the borrower's capacity to generate cash flows will also affect the classification of the loan.
The new rules will also apply to overdrafts.
40.          The rules governing lending limits and capital adequacy will also be made stricter. The
present exclusion rules regarding lending limits will be abolished and a satisfactory definition of groups of
related borrowers will be introduced to include other financial or commercial relations that may affect final
repayment. The maximum lending limit will Initially be fixed at 40 percent of capital and progressively
reduced to 25 percent by third tranche, at which point excesses over the limit will be penalized by an
additional charge on capital.  In most respects the present welghting of a.'sets follows BIS
recommendations, though capital adequacy Is set at 5 percent of risk, not at the 8 percent of the BIS. The
shortcomings In the welghting will be addressed by weighting fixed assets and off-balance sheet risk, and
by ralsing the welghting of equity holdings to 100 percent.
41.          On-site examination and surveillance. The Central Bank will Increase the emphasis on
on-site inspection, which has up to now been less concemed with asset qualitv and more with the
observation of administrative controls. To strengthen its capabilitles in this respect, the present Inspectlon
and control departments will be reorganized, with detailed specifications of their respective functions and
modes of collaboratlon. The Inspection Department staff will be organized Into groups, each of which will
be In charge both of examination and off-site surveillance of a number of banks. The groups wiil work
according to recurrent targeted examinations of the quality of assets, sufficiency of capital and loan
provisioning, the accuracy of eamings figures, and the quality and weaknesses of the management
processes. Written examination methodologies are being prepared for them. To enable the Inspection
Department to fulfl its Increased responsibilities, new Inspectors wHl be recruited and training programs
Instituted. The Control Department will develop a new set of prudential returns Introducing more rigorous
accounting practices, and develop a new data base with a financial analysis model to detect anomalies and
shifts In performance trends. It will receive the reports fumished by the banks, auditors, and Inspectors and
will make them avalable to the Inspectors In appropriate format.
42.           Banking legislation. The liberalization of banking will require substantial changes in
banking leglslation. Tne Central Bank has extensive generally defined powers, which are backed by the
prestige it enjoys because of the quality of its staff. These have proved adequate so far In managing the
changing banking sector, but, with the sectores further evolution and the entry of torelgn capital, some of
the rules wlil need to be made explicit and some modified. The existing Banking Law will be considerably
amended to endow the Central Bank with powers to enforce sound prudential practices, and impose
financial discipline on banks, as well as on their boards and managers. The amendments will Include a new
regime for licensing banks; a definition of the responsibilitles of bank directors; powers for the Central Bank
to regulate and Inspect banks and to enforce compliance with regulations; powers for the Central Bank to
issue orders to banks, to Impose penalties on banks, and to Initiate the process of Imposing sanctions on



- 14 -
bank managers or directors; the definition of the different stages of deteroration of bank capital and the
corresponding actions that the Central Bank would undertake; and, finally, the rights and powers of the
Central Bank to intervene and resolve complicated problem cases.
43.          Auditing and strengthening banks. As prudential regulations are revised and supervisory
capabilities improved, the authorities will implement a program for auditing and inspecting banks; and for
formulating and carrying out actions to strengthen banks where necessary. Accounting principles and rules
for minimum Information that banks need to disclose to the public will follow international norms. This will
be aided by the new supervisory reporting requirements for banks, which will ensure greater frequency of
reporting and provide a frame of reference for achieving more homogeneity between banks in internal
accounting. These reporting requirements will also lead banks to improve their internal information systems
so as to enable managers and the supervisory authorities to monitor better credit and market rlsk.
International auditing standards and practices will be adopted as well. In addition to following defined
accounting principles, they will cover, through "long reports", Issues such as Internal controls, the types of
adjustment carried out or recommended, and the Integrity of the bank's capital. The Central Bank's
inspection department will have the authority and responsibility for monitoring the quality of auditing and
have access to the auditors and their working papers. At present there is a shortage of auditors who can
meet the guidelines regarding qualifications and experience, so that there will be reliance on international
firms, training and creation of partnerships.
44.          The objective of the Tunisian authoritles is to attain BIS standards for capital adequacy over
a number of years. With the more stringent rules governing provisioning, interest arrears, lending limits, off-
balance sheet risk, and own funds, it is likely that some banks will not meet the present 5 percent capital
adequacy requirements. To meet the 8 percent requirement of the BIS, the authorities are adopting a
medium-term program to strengthen the banks. At the same time they will address the Issues of loan
concentration and exposure to subsidiaries, which may be substantial In some cases. Initially banks that
cannot meet the new prudential requirements will be granted except' ins on condition that they formulate
and Implement satisfactory action plans to make the exceptions unnecessary. The prudential requirements,
notably capital adequacy, lending limits and exposure to subsidiaries, will be progresstvely made more
stringent.
45.          The costs cannot be estimated until the new accounting rules are applied, but they will
Inevitably be widely borne. As far as possible capital increases and provisioning will be used. The State
may contribute capital In some cases, but private shareholders and some of the bilateral agencies that
provided some of the capital of development banks may hesitate, having Incurred losses on loans that were
made at the behest of the State when lending was regulated. On the other hand, Tunisia has had some
initial success In attracting foreign banking capital. The cost of provisioning Is partly bome, through larger
bank spreads, by depositors and partly by borrowers, Including the State, which will pay higher IntE .est on
its bonds. The State will also assume the costs of some loans to public enterprises. Finally, some banks
may be merged or taken over.
Lending Rates
46.          The last remaining administrative constraint on bank lending rates, a cap of three percentage
points on the spread between the Interest rates on loans of deposit banks and the money market rate, wiil
be lifted by endi-1993. The cap Is applied out of concem that collusion between banks might raise lending
rates unjustiflably t.igh. The authorities had committed themselves, under the SAL program, to removing
the cap as soon as competition In lending was adequate. Recent data confirm that action should be taken
soon. Competition between banks In lending has Increased, spurred on by the rapid growth of the
commercial paper market. Moreover, the current high money market rate presents a good opportunity;



- 15 -
since only 30 percent of loans are close to the cap rate, the likelihood of a significant Increase In lending
rates Is small. Nonetheless, even though Tunisian banks have so far tended to caution, there is the
possibility of risky lending by banks before the new prudentia controls become effective. To guard against
this possibUiity, the complete removal of the cap will be preceded by a transition phase in which the cap will
be applied to the average spreads of each bank's lending rates over the money market rate.
D. SPECIAL INCENTIVES
47.          An Important component of the Improvement that the Govemment Is bringing about in the
structure of Incentives Is the reform of the system of special Incentives. This reform will be a major change,
since ft will break from the sectoral basis on which these incentives have been designed. These incentives
are provided by a number of sectoral investment codes, and a system oT rediscounted preferentiW credits,
both originating mostly from the period of economic dirigisme. The Govemment will limit special Incentives
to a few clearly defined objectives, replacing the vertical, sectoral approach by the use of horizontal criteria,
and wiil reduce their substantial cost. Among the objectives most likely to be chosen are the promotion of
exports and of regional development, the trar9fer and assimilation of technology, and the protection of the
environment
48.          At present the special Incentives are offered on a sectoral basis, which renders them costly
and Inefficient, while making it difficult to focus them on a few cross-sectoral objectives. At present there
are several investment codes: industry, Agriculture anid Fishing, Services, Intemational Trading Companies,
Tourism, and Housing. Since each pursues numerous objectives, most activities are eligible for their
advantages. Consequently, although they may affect the form of financing, they probably have little effect
on the decision to Invest but merely compete among themselves. The minority of activities not covered by
such codes, however, are disadvantaged and create pressure for more codes. For instance there was a
recent proposal for an Artisan's Code.
49.          The advantages available under the present investment codes are also overly generous.
Since Tunisia's domestic market is small, there has been a tendency to try to compete with other countries
in providing incentives to encourage Investments that can help diversify and expand output and exports, and
this has affected all sectors. The fiscal advantages amount to a parallel tax system that greatly reduces the
benefits of the excellent reform of direct taxation that took effect In 1990. The extreme case Is that of
exports which can be exempt from all taxes and, since income from prois is only taxed at the corporate
level, dividends also escape tax. In other cases tax exemptions can be for as long as ten years. Tax
reductions are also given for reinvested earnings (see paragraphs 33-34). The codes provide financial
advantages in the form of financing at below market rates mainly through preferential credits that can be
rediscounted at the Central Bank. These preferential credits, which currently represent about 13 percent
of total credit to the economy, are granted at Interest rates as low as 8-11 percent. They are available for
a number of narrowly defined activites, such as expoft prefinancing, and roughly 45 percent are short term.
They are almost always fully recovered.
50.          Recognizing that the Incentives had become too generous, especially since the reform of
direct taxation had removed much of the justification for certain fiscal advantages, the Tunisian authorities
have already taken measures to reduce them. All enterprises, excepting those that export all their output
and financial institutions, are subject to a minimum tax of 10 percent on eamings since 1990 and the tax
deductions on reinvested eamings has been substantially lowered. The generosity of preferential credits has
also been reduced: since 1987 the share of these credits In total credit has been roughly halved and their
Interest rates have risen on average by over two poirnts.



- 16 -
51.          The major reform will be the abrogation of the existing sectoral investment codes and their
replacement by a unified code offering a llmited set of special Incentives aimed at the oblectives defined by
the Govemment. The unified code will be formulated In 1992 on the basis of a study to be carried out by
the Tunisian authorities, and will be adopted, with its implementing legislation. in 1993. Measures to reform
fiscal advantages will take effect in 1993. This will limit the duration of the advantages, with a tapering off
in the last years of the exemptions, and will narrow the basis for eligibility for tax exemptions on the basis
of the objectives of the unified code. The code will Include a reform of financial advantages. It will
determine what types of financial advantages, if any, will be available. If the system of rediscounted
preferential credits Is retalned, on account of the advantages of these credits being fully recovered, the
allocation of these credits will be determined by the new criteria of the code. To ensure Impartial and
consistent application of the unified code, final decisions regarding eligibility of Investment proposals will be
taken through a centralized procedure, which would be Independent of the sector ministries, most likely
under the auspices of the Ministry of Planning. If the sectoral agencies applying the present codes remain,
their role will be to clear investment proposals in their sectors before submission to the centralized
procedure. During 1992 the Tunisian authorities will follow their usual practice of preparing for the reforms
by extensive consultations and public information efforts.
E. SQCIAL PROTECTION
Social Securiy Funds
52.           Among the benefits of consistent emphasis over a long period on socA  development is the
relatively low Incidence of poverty. Less than 10 percent of the population lives In absolute poverty, and
signs of grinding poverty are strikingly rare. Social development was accompanied by the creation of an
extensive system of social protection consisting of a number of social security fundis covering major lifecycie
risks ancd a system of targeted assistance. Almost every Tunisian can, In theory, be covered by the former.
However, the social security system has certain major Inefficiencies. One consequence Is that lower Income
groups receive little cover for major lIfecycle risks, with the result that too many people avail themselves of
the targeted programs at a substantial cost to the budget. Another consequence is that the system Is too
Inflexible to provide even the well-to-do with much choice In the coverage available. The need for reform
has become more pressing In the eyes of the authorities because of the decline In population growth (see
paragraph 9) and the possibDlity that budgetary outlays for social protection will Increase In the medium termn
as the proportion of the costs of social protection bome by the social security funds decines. Since the
reforms will be complex, being Intertwined with long-standing contractual obilgatlons and thie consensus on
which labor relations are based, they will need to be prepared carefully and, as with all major reforms In
Tunisia, wIll be preceded by extensive discussions with all affected parties. Hence, the desire of the
authoritles to begin now the process of determining the possibilities and elaborating the reforms.
53.          The social security system Is highly fragmented, and one preliminary step to the rain
reforms will be to introduce a single identifying social security numbering for the whole system. There are
several furnds (cisse-s; the CAVIS provides pension and Invalidity benefits to about half the population; Xt
CNSS provides health care, disability, and, through the CAVIS, pension benefits for the private sector and
some public enterprise employees; the CNRPS provides the same benefits for most of the public sector, and
the CREGT the same for workers In gas, electricity and public transport Benefits and contributions vary
widely from fund to fund and, In addition to creating Irequalities, complicate the movement of labor.
Procedures are In place for transferring beneflts with changes in employment, but they are necessarily
cumbersome. A unified Identification numbering will help simplify such transfers and is, In any case,
necessary for creating a more flexible and homogeneous system In the future.



- 17 -
54.          The Govemment's reforms wUi draw more people into participating in and contributing to
the social security system by linking benefits more closely to contributions. A major inefficiency of the
system Is that, although virtually every citien can participate In a fund, the Incentive may be lacking for the
person and for the fund. This Is especially the case for health care, which roughly haff the population Is able
to obtain free or at reduced cost. It Is also true of pensions, since the young, especially if they have good
family support, tend to neglect providing for old age. In both cases the funds have littie Incentive to seek
those not yet particIpatIng, since they are likely to attract high risk groups. The consequences are that the
CNSS finances only 20 percent of the cost of publicly provided health care and the budget the rest, while
the CAVIS Is running deficits.
65,          The reform would also Institute guidelines for the Investment of the reserves of the funds.
Another Inefficiency has been that the reserves of the funds (and of the Insurance companies) have been
used for a variety of purposes that are not normally the function of social security systems nor for what the
contributlons were Intended. In particular, until recently, funds and insurance companies had to Invest
malnly in bons d'4auIUement as part of their obligations to support the flnaneing of economic dwelopment.
Other uses of the fundis' resources have Included "social housing' rented to low income groups. As a
consequence, the reserves of the funds are Illiquid, unremunerative, and are being depleted. The reform
of the guidelines will ensure prudent and remunerative Investment of the funds' reserves, which will be
facilitated by the reform of the Treasury's financing (paragraph 32).
66.          These reforms will lay the ground for a system proviiing optional Insurance, while assuring
a baslc minimum cover for the poor compatible with budget constraints. The first step will be to revise the
structure of contributions and benefits, which would be done on the basis of analyses to be carried out by
the Tunisian authorities. Backed by the new Investment guidelines, these revisions will aim at making the
funds financily viable. The need to keep the cost of labor in line with productivity will set the limits on
contributions and, hence, on benefits. The revisions will also allow the introduction of more choice in the
types of cover avaiable. The establishment of a financially viable optional system will allow private sector
entry, both through participation In the existing funds and through expansions of the Insurance system.
57.          By drawing a larger population Into voluntary participation In the social security system, the
reforms will release budgetary funds that can be used for protecting the really needy. At present this
protection comes from a variety of sources, but is largely confined to sustenance, health care, and some
school materials. One source has been food subsidies, which will be maintained with better targeting to
reduce their cost (paragraph 58). Similarly the poor can obtain free health care, as referred to above, and
direct assistance through several programs, some of which depend on external grant financing. But they
are not covered against other major lifecycle risks, such as Invalidity, disability, unemployment, and old age.
As a first step, the poor will be protected through a basic minimum cover to be Introduced In 1993. The
exact form of the cover wDi be determined In the light of studies of the needs and budgetary constraints.
This could lead to a universal system of basic cover, to which all would contribute, unless needy or
unemployed, ancd which would provide benefits on proof of contribution or exemption from the obligation
to contribute. The Tunisian authorities will also examine the possibility of Introducing unemployment
insurance to cover losses of jobs, especially as it will reduce pressure to restructure or close enterprises.
Conscume Subsidies
58.          The present system of consumer subsidies is an Inefficient way of helping the poor since
It subskizes prices and, hence, benefits the better-off to the extent that they consume more of the same
products than the poor. The items subsidized consist of basic articles of consumption such as certain wheat
prodlucts, milk, sugar, and vegetable oil, and some agricultural inputs such as fertilizers and animal food.
Since these Items are widely consumed, their subsidies have high budgetary costs and are politically
sensitive. The authorities have been reducing the subsidies In numerous smnall steps, taking care that the



- 18 -
effects are greatest on items consumed more by the less poor. By eliminating some subsidies, e.g., meat,
increasing prices gradually, and cutting the operational costs of the system, they have brought the tota of
these subsidies down from 4.2 percent of GDP In 1984 to 2.9 percent in 1990. The SAL of 1988 supported
the preparation of a study on alternative strategies and the formulation of a medium-term government
program. The program was adopted In 1990 and envisaged (i) continuing price increases, (li) cost
reductions, and (II1) targeting through quality dierences by subsidizing only quaiities of bread, vegetable
oil, sugar, and milk consumed by the poor.
PART IlIl - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. LOAN AMOUNT. TRANGHING AND CONGITIONALITY
59.          The proposed loan to the Republic of Tunisia Is for US$250 million equivalent. This amount
has been determined oni the basis of the country's balance of payments needs and prospects for 1992-93,
as well as the avallability of cofinancing. The proposed loan and Its cofinancing constitute an Integral part
of the country's external financing program.
60.          The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed In three tranches: US$100 million
upon loan effectiveness, and US$70 million and US$80 million after the completion of a number of key
actions for the second and third tranci ;e releases respectively. Release of the three tranches is planned for
end-1991, end-1992 and end-1993, respectively  The specific actions to be monitored and their
implementation program sre described below:
61.          As conditions for first tranche release:
(a)    Trade and prices: (i) 15 percent of imports subject to quantitative restrictions, and
(ii) 10 percent of distributlion margins, both measured In terms of 1989 domestic production weights, wil be
liberalized.
(b)    Financial markets: (i) the adoption of a 4-year program (1993-1996) for redemption In
equal amount of the bons d'6guIlement not benefiting from tax advantages; (ii) issue of a Central Bank
circular to permit banks to hold up to 20 percent of their deposits In any Treasury securities and not Just
bgLig d'&guioement; (ill) Inclusion In the Finance Law for 1992 of satisfactory provisions on the taxation of
financiainstruments; and (iv) replacement of the cap on the spread of deposit banks' lending rates by a
cap on the average spread.
(c)    Bankng suprvision and prudential regulation: (I) adoption by the Central Bank of a
program to reinforce its supervision services, (il) adoption of satisfactory provisioning and classification rules
to be applied from January 1, 1992; (iQi) fixation of loan concentration ceiling at 40 percent of banks' own
funds and adoption of a satisfactory definition of the concept of group of related borrowers; (iv) definition
by the Central Bank of audit practices for financial institutions and elimination of the ceiling on the costs of
audits for the long report; and (v) adoptlon by the Central Bank of measures requiring the banks to
communicate to the BCT quarterly profit and loss accounts.
(d)    Special Incentives: a 1 percentage point Increase In the rates of the preferentia credit
rediscourted at the Central Bank.



-19-
62.           As conditions for second tranche reae:
(a)    Economic performance: Satisfactory macroeconomic framework.
(b)    Trade and prices: A 30 percent reduction in imports subject to quantitative restrictions,
weighted by 1989 domestic production, with respect to M;ay 1991. Reach liberalization of distribution
margins for at least 40 percent of goods based on their 1989 domestic absorption value.
(c)    Financial markets: Promulgation of the law on the taxation of financia Instruments and
Implementation.
(d)    Banking supervision and prudential regulation: (i) tax exemption of specific provisions
and Interest suspension to be raised from 20 percent to 25 percent; (ii) reduction of the loan concentration
limit to 35 percent; (iii) adoption of auditing principles conforming to intemational practices to be used by
banks' auditors; (iv) presentation of a satisfactory draft banking law to the Chamber of Deputies; (v) Issue
of a Central Bank circular on accounting and statistical documentation to be fumished by the banks starting
on January 1, 1993; (vi) joint revilew of the situation of each bank, and action plans aimed at strengthening
banks already audited; and (vii) adoption of a program of special audits and diagnoses for at least 2/3 of
the assets of the banking system.
(e)    Special incentives: (i) adoption of satisfactory measures regarding (a) the limitation of the
duration and the selectivity of tax advantages, to be included In the Finance Law for 1993, and (b) the
financial advantages; and (li) a further 2 percentage points Increase In the rates of the preferential credit
rediscounted at the Central Bank.
'f)    Social security: issue of guidelines for the Investment of fund reserves.
63.          As conditlons for third tranche release:
(a)    Economic performance: Satisfactory macroeconomic framework.
(b)    Trade and prices: (i) liberalization of all imports with the exception of certain agreed items;
and (Hi) reach liberalization of 60 percent of distribution margins based on 1989 domestic absorption
(equivalent to 72.5 percent of domestic production If all the goods in question were domestically produced).
(c)    Financial markets:  (i) implementation of the program of redemption of the bons
d'iqulpement; and (Hi) elimination of the cap on the spread of lending rates.
(d)    Banking supervision and pruderitial regulation: (i) reduction of the loan concentration
limit to 25 percent and obligation for the banks to Increase their capital accordingly if such limit is exceeded;
(ii joint review of the situation of each bank and implementation of the action plans taken to strengthen
banks already audited; and (iiiJ special audits of banks to complete the coverage of the banking systerm
(e)    Special incentives:  adoption of a satisfactory Unified Code of Investments and
implementation of measures to reform the preferential credit system.
(M    Social security: adoption of a satisfactory program to reform the soia security system.



-20 -
B. CQFINANCING
64.          Given TunisLi's external financing needs, cofinancing is being sought. The European
Commisslon will decide on providing cofinancing of around US$50 mililon at the end of November 1991.
The Govemment of Japan Is expected to provide cofinancing of US$80-100 million. The Govemmant of
Germany Is also examining the possibility of providing cofinancing.
C. BENEFITS AND RISKS
65.          The proposed loan would support the completion in all malor respects of the liberalization
of the Tunisian economy and would permit market forces to operate effectively. The Eighth Plan and the
discussions with the Govemment attest to Tunisia's commitment to these objectives. However, the
experience with the SAL has shown that exogenous factors, such as severe droughts and regional tensions,
can complicate the Implementation of measures that cause unemployment or hardship for the poor.
Leaming from the past, the likelihood of smooth implementation of the import liberalization program is being
maximized by the early announcement of the liberalization schedule, the system of temporary surcharges,
and by gMng viable enterprises access to restructuring funds (including through the Bank's proposed
industrial Finance Loan). The reforms of prudential regulation and banking will require careful handling b)'
the authorities. First, the true situation of each bank and hence the costs and timetable of an eventu i
restructuring program will only be known with confidence as the new prudentW and reporting regulations
become operatlonal. Second, the reforms might be painful for banks, their shareholders, and some of their
major clients. However, the Gov,mment's own commitment Is strong, since, In view of Its medium-termn
oblective of attaining full convertibility of the dinar, it attaches the highest pririty to having a banking sector
that meets International standards.
66.          Almost every sector of the economy will be affected by the reforrn program and there wHil
be losers, as well as gainers. Thus, the task being unoertaken by the Govemment should not be
underestimated. Strong Bank support at this juncture will greatly contribute to the country's success In
carrying out the structural changes that the Govenmment plans. The successful implementation of the
program will make Tunisia a highly outward-oriented economy, attracting substantial direct foreign
Investment, especially in activities requirlng technical skills.
D. COLLABORATION WiTH THE IMF
67.          After successfully completing a Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF that ended In May 1988,
Tunisia entered Into the current Extended Arrangement on July 1988. Total purchases under the EFF were
anticipated to be SDR 218.3 million, equal to 158 percent of quota. However, Tunisia refrained from
drawing, until May 1991. In July 1991, the EFF was extended to a fourth year to support the program
prepared by the Government In response to effects on the economy of the Gulf crisis.
68.          Coordination between the Bank and the IMF has been excellent. During the preparation
of the propose  EFRSL reguar exchanges of viw  with the IMF staff took place and the varos
components of the proposed loan have been discussed at different stages.



- 21 -
E. PROCUREMENT. LOAN ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT
69.          Eligible expenitures. The proposed loan of US$250 million would finance the forein
exchange cost of imported goods. Not eligible for financing under the loan are goods financed from other
sources; military or para-military goods; nudear reactors and parts; or luxury goods such as toacco,
precious stones, jewelry. and gold.
70.          Procurement The proposed adjustment operations would be carried out through three
catgories of procurement based on the value of the contract. For each, different methods of procurement.
documentation rer'ilrements, and Bank review procedures apply:
(a)   For large value contracts (exceeding US$5 million) of the pubilc and private stors,
simpilfied ICB procedures would be followed.
(b)    Public sector procurement valued below the ICB threshold may be carried out following the
standard procedures of the public sector In Tunisia which are acceptable to the Bank.
(c)   Private sector purchases valued below the ICB threshold may follow established commercial
practice. Wherever possible, quotations from eligible suppliers from at least two countres
would be sought except where direct contracting is permissible.
(d)   Direct contracting wlthout competition (sole source procurement) would be penritted under
appropriate circumstances In accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
to)    Subject to prior approval of the Bank, commorny traded commoditie may be proured
through organized international commodity markets or othr channels of competitive
procurement In accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. In partular, they wi
not be eligible if they were single source purchases or Ii they were arranged under bilateral
agreements.
71.         The use of the loan for petrdeum products would be limited to US$50 mllion. Retroactive
financing would be permitted up to the amount of US$87.6 million (35 percent of the loan amount) for
expenditures made after June 1991.
72.          The Govemrnent may seekdisbursements for Imports under editing cornractsforthe supply
of certain goocds such as fertilzers, commocities ancd petroleum products. Goods imported under such
contracts are eliglible for Bank financing only H the contracts were awarded through the procedures
prescribed herein or those deternined to be acceptabe to the Bank. They will not be eligible If they were
single source purchases or f they were arranged under bilateral trade agreements.
73.          Disbursement. The Central Bank wMii be responsible for the administration of the loan.
Disbursements from the loan account wiil be made against 100 percent of the cost of eligible Imports.
Witdraal appiications for disbursements on eligible contracts above the equivalent of US$5 million wMi be
fully documented. In all other cases, disbursements will be made on the basis of Statemnwt of
Expendiures (SOEs) from the Centra Bank detailirg indidual trnsacrti  In a ghien perlod, and
cerfication of payment and d eligibility of the tansactions for loan flnancing. Supporting documentato
for disburents under SOEs wOil be retalned by the Central Bank untl at least 12 months after the closing
of th loan account. Retroactive financing llmited to 35 percent of the loan amount wl be alowed for
expnitures Incurrecd after June 30, 1991. The loan is expected to be fully disbed 30 months aftr
effectveness. The Closing Date would be December 1994.



- 22 -
74.          Accounts and audits. The Central Bank wll maintain records re di transactions under the
loan In acordance with sound accounting practices. All accounts (including the revolving fund) will be
audited within six months of the end of the Borrower's fiscal year by Independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. Each audit report will Inciwde a separate opinion on claims submitted to the Rank on the basis of the
SOEs and will state whether the claims were made In accordance with the terms.  he Loan Agreement.
75.          Management. The adjustment program would be managed under the general coordirnation
of the Ministry of Planning and Regional Development, with the assistance of the Ministries of Economy and
of Finance, and of the Central Bank. The Central Bank will be responsible for the coordination and
monitoring of disbursement related aspects. Semi-annual reports would be prepared by the Govemment
(through the Directorate General of Planning in the Ministry of Planning and Regional Development) and sent
to the Bank on the Implementation of all elements of the adjustment program. These reports would Include
data showing the evolution of mnacroeconomic indicators, Information on the progress on quantitative
restrctions, and price liberalization, as well as a description of the measures envisaged to achieve the
agreed elements of the program.
PART IV - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
76.          Lending.  Since 1962, IDA has committed to Tunisia 10 credits amounting to
US$75.2 million, and the Bank has committed 87 loans amounting to US$2370 million, both net of
cancellations. The Bank's figure Includes US$26 million for a Population and Family Health Project, and
US$30 million for a Hospital Management and Financial Reform Project signed on May 21, 199i, not yet
effective. Project Implementation Is generally satisfactory, and important policy changes and Institutional
improvements have been achieved. Disbursement delays have been experienced affecting particularly the
education ancd energy sector projects due to project-specific problems currently being addressed through
supervision missions and sector discussions.
77.          Past Bank lending emphasized support for long-term Investments in Infrastructure, social
development and, more recently, In the agriculture sector. As of July 31, 1991, tha sector share of the Bank
Group commitments was as follows: agriculture 23.5 percent; industry and energy, 23.8 percent; transport
and urban Infrastructure, 33.3 percent; education and employment, 10.3 percent; and health and technical
assistance, 1 percent each. Policy-based lending 'o support reforms at the sector and macroeconomic
levels started In 1987 with the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL I), Loan 2754-TUN, and the
Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (ITPAL), Loan 2781-TUN, followed by the Second Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL II), Loan 3078-TUN, and the Public Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL), Loan
3109-TUN.
78.          The Bank's assistance strategy aims at supporting the country's objective to become a
highly diversified and outward oriented economy. The overall objective of Bank lending is to crontribute to
the Implementation of the Govemment's commendable program of economic reform. To this end, Bank
financing wfil be linked to projects with a direct and rapid Impact on production, employment and exports.
The policy loans mentioned above and the present loan meet these criteria.
79.          The major objectives of the future Bank program of assistance for Tunisia are to develop
and further consolidate the environment for the private sector, and to give this sector more rational price
signals. The prorased adjustment operation is expected to be followed by three financial Intermediation
operations (in Industry, agriculture and housing), which will continue and support, on a sectoral level, the
initiated policy reforms, and help meet the growing needs of the private sector In the future. At the same
time these operations will be vehicles for the continued reform of the financial secta and the strengthening



-23 -
of the banking system. In addition to investment projects for physical and social Infrastructure aiming at
private sector-led growth, project lending wilt also be channelled to the public sector, prirnarily In agriculture
and transport, In support of further Improvements In efficiency, and of the Govemment's privatizatlon efforts.
The assistance program will be comp-mented by operatlons designed to help the poor, and to ensure that
Tunisia's labor remains competitive, and that water resources and the environment are developed and
conserved.
80.          CESW. The Bank's economic and sector work wil address the problems which Tunisia Is
expected to face In the medium term, and will continue to provide the macroeconomic and sector
knowAedge needed to malntain a fruitful dialogue with the Govemment and underpin the Bank's future
assistance strategy In the country. In particular, it will follow up on the Implementation of the
recommendations of the studies carried out in the context of sector and adjustment loans. The main
specific tasks Incdude a Country Strategy Paper, an analysis of the impact of liberalization on savIngs, a
review of the effects of the changes occurring In Europe on the Maghreb, as well as an analysis of land
resource mnanagement and food security.
81.          Bank lending and exposure. Table 3 gives the financing of Tunisia's current account deflcit
and the Bank's share in it The Bank's relative exposure, as Indicated by the share of guaranteed medium-
and long-term external debt, peaks at 24 percent of GDP In 1992. The share of preferred creditors is over
30 percent. Debt servicing to the Bank as a share of exports wIll reach 4.4 percent In 1993-94 and gradually
decine after that. The Issue posed by the high relative exposure of the Bank is how to ensure greater
burden sharing. The present exposure Is primarily the result of an active lending program over many years,
a reflection of Tunisia's good perfo.mance In project preparation and Implementation. Although the
exposure has been Increased by iljustment lending since 1986, it would in any case have been high. Since
the Tunisian authorItIes and the bsnk are agreed that the present loan wIll be the last adjustment operation
and since the volume of IBRD lending will stabilze at about US$250 mitilon a year, the Bank's share of gross
disbursemerts wOil peak at 24 percent In 1993 and then gradually decirne. Tunisia may face similar
tightening of support from some other sources of officW financing, given the competing needs of Sub-
Saharan Africa and Eastem Europe, though its relations with donors are In general so good as to encourage
them to continue supporting Tunisia to the limits allowed by their guidelines. Hence, In addition to Increased
tapping of guaranteed export financing, it will have recourse to financial markets, for which its debt record
and actions to acquire market experise and to Improve its debt management capablfties are prerequisites
(See Annex I).



-24 -
Table 3: FIR=IAL R
(CillIons of current US dollars)
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
Current Account Balance               -660.6  -631.9  -387.4  -418.1  -406.1  -431.6  -410.0  -452.1
Total Amortization Payments            936.2   936.4   853.0   788.4   784.1   832.5   820.9   950.0
Total Gross Disbursement
(PPG) (incl. IMF)                   1127.1  1474.1  1239.6  1182.3  1199.8  1227.4  1211.8  1281.3
IMf                                      0.0   211.1    70.4      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
World Bank                             z14.5   247.1   270.7   284.1   257.0   236.7   239.6   234.8
Pipeline                             212.5   163.4   147.0    89.4    65.6    44.2    26.3    12.6
EPRSL                                  0.0    70.0    70.0    80.0    30.0       0.0      0.0     0.0
New Project Lending                    2.0    13.6    53.7   114.7   161.3   192.5   213.3   222.1
Cofinancing EFRSL                        0.0     0.0    65.0    65.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0,0
Exim Bank Japan                        0.0     0.0    40.0    40.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
EEC                                    0.0     0.0    25.0    25.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
NDFI                                   185.2   168.4   181.4   195.3   212.9   236.3   262.3   293.8
Other Financing 1/                     284.2   -74.2  -180.5  -171.1  -222,4  -199.7  -243.3  -173.0
World Bank diab.!
PPG disb. (in S)                      19.0    16.8    21.8    24.0    21.4    19.3    19.8    18.3
World Bank DOD/
PPG DOD (in 2)                        18.8    20.2    20.8    21.5    21.5    21.2    21.0    20.7
World Bank Debt Service/
Exports G&S (in X)                     3.6     4.4      4.4     4.0      3.9     3.9      3.4     3.3
World Bank Net Transfers                 0.8     3.2      4.2     9.4   -44.6   -82.4   -70.6   -89.0
i1/ Including official grants, non-guaranteed, short-term, changes in reserves, and capital NEI
82.              Over the medium term, therefore, a greater share of Tunisia's extemal financing will come
from market sources, white the share of IBRD lending will diminish, though the Bank's net disbursements
will remain positive through the decade.
A. BANK EXPERIENCE WITH ADJUSTMENT LENDING IN TUNISIA
83.             Adjustment lending to Tunisia started In 1987, to support the program of economic reform
adopted by the Govemment after the severe flnancial crisis of 1986. Two quickly disbursing loans were
made In FY87, namely the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL I) and the Industria and Trade Policy
Adjustment Loan (ITPAL) for US$160 million each. A Structural AdJustment Loan (SAL) for US$150 mUli.on
was made In FY88. This was followed by a second Agricultural Sector Loan (ASAL 11) and a Pubic
Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL) for US$130 million, both still ongoing. The loans supported the economic



- 25 -
reforn measures undertaken by the Govemment at the macroeconomic level as well as those in the
agricultural, industrial sectors, and public enterprise.
84.          The ASAL I focused on Improvements of agricultural policies in the areas of Incentives and
pricing (at the consumer and producer levels), public expenditure, extension and research, Input and output
marketing, Irrigation management, credit, farm mechanization, livestock, forestry and land tenure policies.
The Implementation of policy measures was satisfactory: producer and Input prices were adjusted as agreed,
distribution margins for fertilizers were liberalized, Interest rates for agricultural credit were raised, allocation
of funds to the FOSDA (Fonds Spklal pour le D0veloopement Agricole) program was llmited as covenanted,
and the actions expected on organizational and Institutional improvements were Implemented. The loan was
closed In June 1990.
85.          The ITPAL suppotted the initial phase of the stabilization program Initated in 1986 and
launched the price end trade liberalization programs. The most Important measures Included: (i) the
liberalization of Investment and the Introduction of a new Investment code; (i1) the rationalization of the
foreign exchange risk coverage scheme; (iii) the liberalization of banking; (iv) the reform of the Institutions
dealing with the industrial and trade sectors; and (v) the indirect tax reform. Overall, the majority of policy
measures and reforms supported by the loan were accomplished within the expected time-frame.
86.          The SAL, signed on September 26, 1988, supported the second phase of macroeconomic
adjustment of the 1986-1991 medium-term program. The main reforms Implemented under the SAL were:
(i) lIberaization of prices and trade; (ii) reform of direct and Indirect taxation; (HiI) reforms In the financial
system Including the Govemment's borrowing Instruments. Progress was significant In certain areas of the
program and slower In others, notably the removal of protection for domestic producers. The loan was
successfully closed on December 1990.
87.          The ASAL II supported the implementation of the second phase of the Govemrnent's
medium-term agricultural sector adjustment program (MTASAP), within the framework of the overall medium-
term program. Policy actions were taken to: (I) reform the price, marketing and Institutional framework of
the agriculture sector; (ii) reorient the public investment program in agriculture; (iii) strengthen agricultural
support services Including rationalizing the role of the public sector; (iv) improve management of natural
resources of landi, forests and fisheries; and (v) build up institutional capacity for sector performance
monitoring and impact analysis. The first tranche is completely disbursed; the second tranche Is expected
to be disbursed in the Fall of 1991. Performance is satisfactory.
88.          The PERL focussed on two main objectives: to reduce State ownership in the goods ancd
services producing sectors of the economy, by sale of State owned enterprises; and to diminish Govemment
intervention in the management of the enterprises that would remain under State control and ownership.
Privatization of public enterprises has progressed at a rapid pace. The enterprises privatized have mostly
been enterprises In difficulty, and their restructuring, as well as the social costs associated with it. was
financed out of a "Public Enterprise Restructuring Fund". The main instrument for improving mnanagement
of enterprises slated to remain In the public domain was "Performance Contractse, drawn up between the
State and three pilot enterprises (CPG, SNCFT, SNT). These contracts allow the State to reduce its direct
Intervention in the management of public enterprises, while keeping checks and balances on their
performance. The use of performance contracts will be expanded to most public enterprises, In the
framework of the forthcoming Eighth Plan. The first tranche of the loan is fully disbursed and the second
Is expected to be disbursed In the Fall of 1991.



- 26 -
B. IFC INVEfLTENME
89.          As of June 30, 1991, IFC's net commitments In Tunisia totaled US$30.7 million. This
financing has benefltted the tourism sector, both through direct Intervention in projects and through
assistance to development banks, and the manufacturing sector, particularly in the chemical, pharmaceutical,
construction materials and textiles subsectors. In textiles, IFC Is helping to modemize and privatize some
stateowned mUls. The Corporation has also imwested in the first leasing company In the country, and In ttie
reestablishment of a Belgian-Tunisian venture In the field of engineering services. IFC has contributed to
the development of Tunisia's capitla market by financing, with the UNDP, a study on the potentia for its
Improvement.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
90.          The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the Bank, and the Report
of the Committee provided for In Article l1l, Section V (lii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being
distributed separately.
PART VI - RECOMMENQATION
91.          1 am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Lewis T. Preston
President
November 21, 1991
Washington D.C.
Annexes



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
EXERNAL DEBT MANAGEMENT
1.           Tunisia has never needed to reschedule external debt and has a good record of timely
servicing; nonetheless it needs to strengthen its debt management capabilities. Its success in avoiding debt
problems has been the fruit of unceasing caution, except for a brief period of heavy borrowing In the early
1980s that nearly ended in crisis, and rigid procedures. One success of such caution has been that the
terms of Tunisia's debt have been remarkably favorable: at present they are; average maturity of 16 years,
average interest rate of 7.2 percent p.a., and about 70 percent of the debt Is at fixed rates. These conditions
did not stimulate the need for a more sophisticated debt management system. A need began to be
perceived when public enterprises that had been encouraged to borrow In Deutsche Marks and Yen in the
mid-1980s incurred big foreign exchange losses. This led to the creation, with Bank support, of a unit for
asset and liabilities management In the Central Bank. Two impending developments have convinced the
authorities of the need for broader reform. One is that Tunisia will need greater access to financial markets
In the coming years, and the other is that, as part of the opening of the economy and progress towards a
convertible currency, this access will gradually be extended to domestic banks and enterprises. To be fully
creditworthy in the eyes of the financial markets, it is necessary not only to have a sound debt situation but
also to be seen to have the skills and institutional capabilities for incurring and managing debt with a
minimum of risk.
The Issue3
2.           At present responsibilities for managing debt are diided between the Ministry of Planning
and Regional Development, the Ministry of Finance, and the Central Bank, with no single body to determine
overall debt policy. Since consultations are frequent and the staffs competent and motivated, the
arrangement has worked well. However, this fragmentation of responsibilitles makes it difficult to carry out
analyses and formulate policies adapted to changing circumstances. The Ministry of Planning; Is responsible
for monitoring medium-term trends and setting borrowing targets. It also handles relations with official
donors. The Ministry of Finance has the primary responsibility for servicing all central govemment debt,
which includes monitoring the counterpart budgetary flows, and sometimes it also services the debt of some
public enterprises. It Is also responsible for debt reporting to the Bank. All disbursements and repayments
must pass through, or be authorized by, the Central Bank, which also monitors medium-term commercial
and short-term debt. It almost always participates in public sector borrowing decisions.
3.           A consequence Is that each of the three institutions has its own debt data base. These data
bases are all workable and Inconsistencies between them are usually minor. But, since each has access
to different raw data and exchanges of data are irregular, they all have deficiencies and all resort to
questionnaires to complete their data. One consequence Is the authorities can only obtain complete,
up-to-date data on debt through special actions, though complete year-old data may be obtained easily.
4.           Tunisia's legislation governing extemal borrowing has been designed to ensure that surh
borrowing Is closely supervised. It Is a legacy of the days of fixed exchange rates and official financing and
Is less adapted to the foreseeable future. Without modHfications it Is likely to hamper conventional hedging
operations and some of the more complicated financing transactions to the point that they become
Impractical.



ANNEXI
Page 2 of 2
ro9ram to bu od
5.           The measures to be supported by the Loan would aim primarily at:
(i)    Setting up a high level policy committee. Representation on this committee would
Incdude the Ministry of Planning, the Ministry of Finance, and the Central Bank, preferably
at ministerial levei. It would formulate policy on borrowing: the volume, the Instruments,
sources, currencies, and guarantees, among other things. It would monitor implementation
of official policies, coordinate debt management across the economy, commission studies
as needed, and handle special situations as they arise. It would also be the final arbiter on
issues conceming the data base and would be responsible for proposing modifications to
legislation. Except on major policy Issues, for which it would advise the cabinet, the
committee would have the authority to take decisions.
(ii)    Creation of a unified debt data base. The three Institutions would maintain their primary
data responsibilIties; each would be able to enter the data for which it Is responsible using
an access code and would have access to all the data base. It would be networked, rather
than rely on a central unit.
=I    Modomizing legislation. Modiflcations would be made to faclitate normal hedging and
borrowing and, possibly at a later stage, to facilitate borrowing by enterprises.
6.           The high level policy committee is expected to be constituted during December 1991. It
would be supported technically by the asset and liabDitles management unit In the Central Bank and the debt
staffs of the Ministry of Planning and Mlnistry of Finance. A technical committee, wlth experts from the three
Institutions assisted by specilists In data processing Is being set up to prepare a proposal for a unified data
base. it will define the specific requirements of the different users, prepare a design, evaluate the systems
aalabv e on the market and the cost of custom design, and make a proposal to the high level committee.
The commfttee would present proposals to the Bank regarding the legisiative modHifcations needed and a
timetabie.
7.           No specific tranche conditions are belng attached to this component of the program. The
component would be part of the overall development policy to be presented In the Letter on Development
Policy that would accompany the formal request for the loan and for which satisfactory performance would
be a conditon for both tranches. The timetable envisages ving proposals for a data base by early 1992
and to have It operational with suitably trained staff and user manuals in 1992. Proposals for the first stage
of legislatie changes would be ready by December 1991 and their adoption would occur In 1992.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 19
Draft Lettr df Development Policy
Dear Mr. President:
The Eighth Development Plan of Tunisia is moving Into the final phase of preparation. It has
been the occasion for extensive discussions among the authoritles and representatives of various economic
groupings on the objectives and policies to be pursued during this Plan.
The major axes chosen by the authorities concem the acceleration of the process of
liberalization and opening up of the economy. They are based upon a program of structural, political and
economic reforms that are described In detail below.
The Gulf crlsis and the continuing tensions In the region have presented serious setbacks
to the momentum of the reforms. Major export revenue losses In 1991, expected to continue in 1992, nave
given rise to a need for substantial balance of payments support, without which the continuation of the
reforms will be extremely difficult and will entail great hardship for the population.
The Govemment has responded promptly to the crisis by adopting restrictive
m-acroeconomic measures, notably In the Supplementary Finance Law of March 1991. Moreover, it has
decided to draw on the resources available under the Extended Arrangement with the IMF, hitherto not used,
and has obtained a prolongation of the Arrangement to a fourth year, beginning In July 1991. External
assistance is being sought from the EEC and Japan, while a support program is being engaged with the
African Development Bank. With this letter the Govemmert requests Bank's support In the form of a quick
disbursing operation. Because it comes at such a critical time, this loan would provide essential balance
of payments financing. More Important, it would support the continuation of the existing program of reforms
and Its broadening, as formulated In the Eighth Plan, and described In this letter.
ACHIEVEMENTS TO DATE
The period 1986-90 has been one of macroeconomic stabilization and policy reform.
Rigorous budgetary, monetary, and exchange rate measures succeeded, In the mid-80s, In reducing the
large current account and budget deficits while maintaining GDP growth. These measures were
corm plemented by a wide-ranging program of structural reforms, Inducling major revisions of the tax system,
progress in price and import liberalization, the restructuring and privatization of public enterprises, the
development of a money market, the elimination of investment controls and the liberalization of banking.
Although much remains to be done, the reforms have substantially achieved their basic
purpose of Improving the efficiency of the economy, which had become vitw In view of the declining
earnings from oil exports since the early 1980s. A 15 percent devaluation of the rea exchange rate during
1986, and strong International dermand were the maln determinants of the recovery of manufactured expofts
In 1986-1990. This export growth, averaging 17 percent p.a., was strong enough to overcome the effects
of a sharp fall In agricultural output, during 1988-89, due to two severe droughts. Restraint on wage
Increases and firm monetary policies contributed to keeping the Inflation rate around 7 percent during 1986-
199; restrictive fiscal policies allowed the budget deficit to be reduced to 4.0 percent of GDP from an



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 19
average of 5.6 percent in the early 80s. Although substantial budgetary cuts in food subsidies had to be
Implemented, expenditures on targeted programs such as free basic health care and school materials for
the very poor were maintained.
The Improvement in the current account defici, especially in 1987 and 1988, was the result
not only of the stabilization measures undertaken by the Government but also of a substantial drop in fixed
investment and hence of Imports of capital goods. However, responding to the changed Incentive
framework and to buoyant export demand, private fixed investment increased by 13 percent in 1989 and
21 percent In 1990. Public sector Investment also increased, although more modestly. This recovery in
Investment, together with an exceptional Increase in agricultural output, due to good rainfalls, led to a GDP
growth of 7.1 percent In 1990. As the economic crisis of the eadier years was finally being overcome,
external Indebtedness ratios also Improved, with the ratio of total debt to GDP declining from 70 percent in
1987 to 61 percent In 1990 and debt service payments falling from 28.2 percent to 23.4 percent over the
same period.
The structural reform program initiated In the mid-1980s was geared toward reducing the
role of public Intervention In the economy and strengthening the incentive to invest for the private sector.
To this end, Important measures were taken since 1987, including the removal of the requirement for prior
authorization of irnestments in Industry, except for those seeking the tax and financial advantages granted
under the Investment Codes. A program of privatization was also successfully launched. Progress In
promoting competition in the domestic market, a key objective of the Government program, has been slower
because of the present difficult context and of fears of widespread Industrial failures and rising
unemployment. Nonetheless, over 70 percent of producer prices, measured in terms of 1989 domestic
production are now free; about 29.8 percent of distribution margins, calculated using domestic production
welghts of 1989, are also free. The administration of the producer prices that remaln controlled has been
transferred from a positive to negative list. Progress has also been made in the liberalization of Imports:
roughly 28 percent of goods produced don gstlcally In agriculture and manufacturing can now be freely
imported. The reduction In quantitative restrictions has been accompanied by a rationalization In the
structure of Import tariffs, the maximum rate for which was lowered from over 250 percent in 1986 to a
maximum of 43 percent In 1988. All export duties have been removed.
The liberalization of banking began In 1987 and resulted in the removal of credit controls
and In the freeing of all interest rates with the exceptions of savings and checking accounts and of a cap
on the spread over the money market rate of the deposit banks' lending rates and the Interest on saving
accounts. In limiting the volume of credit rediscounted at preferential rates and In Introducing a money
market the Central Bank created the conditions for effective indirect monetary management. With the
gradual Introduction of new financial Instruments, such as ceniflcates of deposits, commercial paper, and
weeldy Treasury bill auctions, greater competition has developed In the financial sector. Finally, a reform
of the Stock Exchange In 1989 established the necessary Institutional and legal infrastructure for trading
stocks and bonds.
Tax reform has been Inspired by objectives of simplicity, transparency, fiscal neutrality and
equity. In 1988, a value added tax on retail distribution, later extended to all wholesale, except foodstuffs,
replaced three sales and various excise taxes. The new system of direct taxation, enacted In 1990, Is simple
and transparent. The maximum tax rate on both Incomes and profits Is 35 percent. Greater neutrality has
been achieved In the taxation of corporate finance by eliminating the double taxation of dividends.



ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 19
MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
The 1991 macroeconomic program was formulated against the background of the GuHf
crisis. The combined effect of a 34 percent drop in tourism eamings and a loss of some export markets
Is expected to Increase the current account deficit to 5.0 percent of GDP, in spite of the measures taken in
the eatiy months of the year to restrict Import demand. Restrictive budgetarv measures are expected to
reduce the fiscal deflcit to 3.4 percent of GDP in 1991, compared to 3.8 percent of GDP in 1990. As a result
of the Gulf crisis, GDP growth in 1991 was Initially projected to be roughly zero. The latest estimates, which
take into account a 11.7 percent growth In agriculture, indicate a growth of GDP around 3.0 percent.
The adjustment to the balance of payments shock of the Gulf crisis and regional tensions
will continue Into 1992 and will require policies to restrain domestic demand and promote saving. On the
demand side, the share of investment In GDP is expected to be lower in 1991 and 1992 than In 1990, thus
depressing the demand for capital Imports. Similarly, restraints on wages and salaries will slow consumption
growth. As political tensions are likely to continue in the region, we do not anticipate a full recovery of
tourism before 1994. Saving will Increase modestly from around 19 percent of GDP In 1991 to around
21 percent In 1993 and continued monetary and foreign exchange policies will lead to the achievement of
an external balance defict target of 2.9 percent of GDP in 1992-1993.
The medium-term objective of the Govemment is to return to the growth pattern before the
Gulf crisis: annual GDP growth rates of around 5 percent; a monetary policy compatible with 5-6 percent
inflation rate; a budgetary deficit declining from 3.4 percent of GDP In 1991 to 2 percent by 1996; a non-
interest current account close to balance; and finally, a growth In external indebtedness slow enough to
reduce gradually the ratios of debt and debt servicing to GDP. The feasibility of this objective wfil depend,
in large measure, on a continuing improvement in the efficiency of investment, as measured by a fall of the
5-year ICOR from around 8 of the late 1980s to around 4. Most efficiency gains will come from the non-oil
export sector which is expected to remain the driving force of economic growth.
Within the context of this quick dtubursing operation, we will review, jointly with the Bank,
the macroeconomic performance every six months on the basis of a periodically updated framework. Our
economic goals reflect the objectives of reducing the debt burden, increasing the degree of outward
orientation of the Industrial sector, satisfying the financial needs of the private sector, and ensuring the
sustainability of the budget deficit. The progress In achieving these goals will be assessed using the
following set of Indicators: the level of debt servicing in relation to GDP, the rate of growth of manufactured
exports, the level of private sector borrowing in relation to total domestic and external borrowing, and the
level of total government Interest payments in relation to total budgetary revenues. The reviews of the
mnacroeconomic Indicators will be carried out on the basis of a report that the Ministry of Planning would
submit to the Bank reasonably In advance.
Continuation of Reform Program
Within the framework of a continuation of the program of structural reforms, this loan would
support our efforts in the following areas: (I) further liberalizing trade and prices and creating an effective
anti-trust mechanism; (il) promoting market forces In the financial sector, and putting in place a sound
system of prudential regulation and supervision of the banking system; (iii) reforming the special Incentives
schemes; (Iv) Initiating a reform of the social security system and improving the targeting of subsidles to the
poor; and (v) creating an effective debt management system. Further financial and technical support from



ANNEX I1
Page 4 of 19
the World Bank to address the Issues of bank and industrial sector restructuring Is expected to be provided
in 1992 through an Industrial Flnance Loan.
TRADE AND PRICE LIBERALIZATION
The outward orientation of the economy necessarily implies that Imports are free from non-
tariff barriers and that domestic prices respond to market forces. The Govemment's objective Is to remove
the remaining restrictions on distribution margins and imports by 1994, with the exception of those applying
to subsidized articles of basic consumption and, in the case of Imports, of a few agreed luxury and security-
related items. By the encd of 1993, 60% of distribution margins, measured In terms of domestic absorption
weights, will be liberalized and the restrictions on Imports will be confined to subsidized articles of basic
consumption, a few luxury and security-related items and certain textile products. By the end of 1992 the
Govemment will also complete the liberalization of producer prices with the exception of those on basic
subsidized consumer goods.
The llberalization program will be accompanied by actions to assist enterprises In adapting
to external competition and to prevent monopolistic practices where competition Is lacking. The proposed
Industrial Finance Loan, currently being prepared with the World Bank, will support this effort by providing
financing to enterprises to restructure and by strengthening the technical capabilities to prepare and
Implement the restructuring. Since Import tariffs were reduced In 1988 to a maximum of 43 percent, a
system of temporary surcharges will be instituted to provide transitional protection as Import restrictions are
lifted.
The existence of non-competitive behavior, especially In wholesale, where entry was
restricted until recently by the prior authorization of the authorities constitutes a risk factor that may
jeopardize the liberalization program of prices and distribution margins. The removal of such constraints
In the recently enacted Law on Competition and Law on the Organization of Commerce has allowed free
entry Into distribution, subject only to the requirements, common to most countries, goveming public safety
and honesty. Under this new legislation a Commission on Competition has been created, with the purpose
of deciding on non-competitive behavior and Imposing appropriate penalties. The Govemment Intends to
ensure, therefore, that the Commission and Its procedures are effective and Impartial. The ancillary decrees
and the procedures to be followed by the Commission will be promulgated before the end of 1991 and the
system will become fully operational during 1992. The Govemment Is also concernd about unfair external
competition In the form of dumping. To this end, It will Institute anti-dumping procedures that are fair to
producers, consumers and Importers. We have already entered Into discussion with the World Bank on the
design of an appropriate system, which will become fully operational In 1992.
FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
A sound financila system, modem and competitive, Is essential to promoee the effective
mobilizatlon of resources and their efficient allocation. The Govemment Intends to pursue the reforms
Inated In 1987 by addressing two major remaining Issues: (I) the promotion of market forces In the
financial sector, and (il) the development of a sound system of prudentil regulation and supervision of
banks.



ANNEX li
Page 5 of 19
As regards the promotion of market forces in the financial sector, the main measures would
concem removing the administrative constralnts on lending Interest rates, harmonizing the tax treatment of
financial Instruments and Increasing the role of the market In Treasury financing.
Promotilon of Market Forces
tffMst rfies. It is the Government's Intention to enhance competition among banks by
removing the last remaining constraint on their lending rates. This constraint Is a cap of three percentage
points on the spread of the lending rates of deposit banks over the money market rate. The cap on the
lendilng rates will be completely lifted by the end of 1993. As a transitlonal measure, it will be replaced by
a cap on the average spread of each bank. Such a measure will be implemented before the end of the
current year.
Tax treatment of financial Instruments. The tax treatment of financial Instruments has
been greatly streamlined and simplified under the recent direct tax reform. Yet, the remaining tax incentives
granted to purchases of securities in the primary market are detrimental to the development of secondary
markets. Similarly, the tax advantages of special saving accounts, whose objective Is to encourage the small
saver, have resulted in substantial accounts with middle-Income savers and a diversion of savings form other
financiainstruments. We have already Initiated a complete reform of the fiscal treatmrent of all financial
Instruments. The main objective of the reform Is to ensure tax neutrality between purchases conducted In
the primary and In the secondary market and between direct and Indirect holdings of securities. With regard
to the special savings accounts, our Intention Is to align their taxation with the taxation of other financial
Instruments. The necessary amendments to the current legislation will be Introduced In the Finance Law
for 1992.
Treasury financing. In spite of the Introduction of Treasury bills In 1989, a large part of
Treasury financing continues to rely on mandatory purchases of bons d'6qulpement at yields below market
rates. Banks and Insurance companies are required to hold up to 20 percent of their deposits and
50 percent of their technical reserves, respectively, In these bords. The Government Is aware that these
restrctions are constraining the development of domestic financial markets. It has, therefore, planned to
stop completely the issue of bons d'equipement In 1992. From January 1, 1992, Govemment borrowing wll
be entirely on market terms. As a transitory measure, the Treasury would permit banks and Insurance
companles to hold any type of Treasury paper and to purchase it on the secondary market. The mandatory
ratios, 20 percent for banks and 50 percent for insurance companies, would aiso be relaxed as soon as the
Treasury can place its paper In the required amount with the general public.
Prudential Reglation and Surervislon of Banks
The objective of the Govemment In the medium term is to bring prudential regulations and
bank supervision In line with the best International practices. The reforms will comprise four components:
(a) the progressive strengthenIng of the supervisory capacitles of the Central Bank (8CT); (b) the
reinforcement of prudential regulations; (c) the establishment of reporting requirements and auditing
standards conforming to International practices for all banks; and (d) the strengthening of the Central Bank's
capacty to apply and enforce the new regulatlons and the Initiation of a program to make banks comply
with such regulations.



ANN--- I
Page 6 of 19
To strengthen Its supervisory capacity, the BCT will adopt programs for reorganizng its
Inspection services, for recruiting and training Inspectors, and for Improving methodologies and procedures
of Inspection. Recruiting and training will proceed during 1992. Greater emphasis wil be given to on-site
examination of banks.
Prudential regulations will be made more stringent especlally regarding asset classification
and provisioning. This entails the revision, In the welghting of assets, necessary to estimate the adequacy
of capital retative to balance sheet and off-balance sheet risks, relative to the risks Incurred. The new
regulation will be applied from January 1, 1992. The limit on loan concentration will be initially put at
40 percent of own funds and progressively reduced to 25 percent by the end of 1993. The definitions of
groups will be revised as regards shareholders, affiliated enterprises, and related borrowers.
The current reporting requirements and auditing standards of banks will be revised during
1992. The Central Bank will modify and simplify, as necessary, the statistical and financial documents it
requires from banks so as to bring them into conformity with .nternational accounting practices. StandarJ
auditing rules, In conformity with intemational practices, will also be adopted and made obligatory for
external auditors starting on January 1, 1993.
To strengthen the Central Bank's capacity to apply the new regulations, the current Banking
Law wUi be revised. The revisions will ensure that: (I) bank directors and managers are suited to thelr
responsibilitles and observe prudent banking practices; (li) licensing and prudential requirements adequately
differentiate among commercial, development and universal banking activities and other forms of banking;
and (liI) the BCT has all the necessary powers to supervise banks, to enforce regulations, and to act when
the difficulties of a bank threaten to disrupt the financial system. Draft banking legislation will be submitted
to the Chamber of Deputies In 1992. Along with these measures the authoritles will begin the process of
bringing the whole banking system Into compliance with the new regulations. Although such process wlil
take mnany years, a program of audits will start to be Implemented in 1992. If necessary, bank restructuring
will be undertaken In order to restore viable institutions to health while maintaining the confidence of
d=nositors.
SPECIAL INCENTIVES
In a market economy prices play a key role in allocating resources efficiently and ensure
that profltablp investments are undertaken without the need for special incentives. The Govemment's
program cm    r a significant simplification and reductlon In the current system of financial and fiscal
Incentives. Int;:entives will cease to be Industry--and sector--specific, and will aim at correcting market
imperfections or market failures. To this end, a single Investment Code (Code unique) replacing the various
existing investment codes, applicable to all sectors and aiming at encouraging investments according to the
priorities decided by the Govemment, will be prepared and adopted.
The Code unique will represent a major departure from the Incentive framework of the past
More selective and direct advantages will be granted to avold Intersectoral biases. The duration of all
Incentives, financial and fiscal, will be limited to contain their budgetary and economic costs. New and more
efficient criteria of eligibliity, approval and monitoring wiil be Introduced.
To establish confidence and credibility, essential for Improving the environment for domestic
as well as foreign Investors, the reform needs to be discussed In advance with all Interested parties and



ANNEX ll
Page 7 of 19
carefully prepared. Thus, a study will bi undertaken to prepare the new system of Incentives which will be
included In the Code unique. The new system will become fully operational during 1994. Preliminary
measures aimed at reducing the duration and at improving the selectivity of the fiscal advantages wHil be
induded In the Lol de Finances for 1993. The reform of the system of Incentives will also deal with the
preferential credits rediscounted at the Central bank, whose Interest rates will be progressively augmented
starting in 1991.
SOCIAL PROTECTION
Reducing Income inequalities and achieving a high degree of social sector development
continue to be among our most Important objectives. To this end, our most pressing concern Is to protect
the poor from the worst effects of the program of economic adjustment and restructuring. The
Government's program includes actions in the areas of the consumer subsidies and the social security
system.
Congumer Subsidies: the reform of the system of consumer subsidies alms at protecting
the poor through better targeting while reducing the cost of consumer subsidies. To Improve the efficiency
of targeting, different qualities of basic goods (i.e., flour, edible oils and milk) will be Introduced, but only
the quality consumed by low Income groups will be subsidized. The emphasis w0ll be on merhanisms, such
as price Increases, rather than on rationing and ceilings, which result in shortages. To generate additional
cost savings, retail prices will be Increased, subsidies on selected products will be eliminated, and the
production costs of subsidized goods will be reduced. At the same time, the Government will assess the
need for modifying the orogram for protecting the very poor to ensure that the effects of price increases on
these Individuals are m.timized.
Social Securiy and Insurance System: In view of the long-term effects of a declining
population growth rate, the Government's objective Is to Improve the system of social coverage and the
financial viability of the social security system. Thus, a series of studles will be undertaken to provide a
thorough analysis of the social coverage needs and of the resources that wUi be required. On the basis of
this analysis and after consulting all the parties Involved a reform program for the social security wiil be laid
down before the end of 1993. Specific measures In favor of the poorest, as Indicated In the program, wgil
be implemented. Progress wHil also be made in Improving the investments of the Caisses In instruments
issued by the State. Finally, a single identNifcation number system for social security beneficiaries will be
introduced.
EXTERNAL DEBT MANAGEMENT
In the context of a progressive opening of the economy, which Is expected to Include the
convertiblity of the dinar In the medium term, Tunisia's access to financial markets will Increase. The
authorities are aware that to enhance creditworthiness Tunisia needs to have not only a sound debt siuation
but also the skills and Institutional capabilities for Incurring and managing debt with least posslible risk.
At present, responsibilities for managing debt policy are dMded among three entities:
Ministry of Planning and Regional Development, Ministry of Finance, and the Central Bank. As a



ANNEX 11
Page 8 of 19
consequence, each of the three Institutions has Its own debt data base and the fragmentation of
responsibilites makes it difficult to formulate a common and effecthve strategy. The Govemment's program
to reform the external debt management capabilitles will include the creation of a unified debt data base and
the establishment of a high level policy committee by the end of 1991. The major responsibility of this
comr.eittee, which will Include representatives of the Ministers of Plan and Finance, and the Govemor of the
Central Bank, will be to define an overall strategy for debt management.
C1 ILUSIQ
We believe the reform program outlined In this letter will enable Tunisia to overcome the
effects of the Gulf crisis, to enhance its compestitiveness and to strengthen the confidence of the InternatIonal
community In the future of the Tunisian economy. The adoption of this program would be greatly facilited
if our request for a quick disbursing operation would be accepted by the World Bank. We are committed
to implementing the actions proposed hereby and In monitoring thelr effects on the economy. If necessary,
and after consultation with the Bank, we will Implement further measures to accelerate the process of
reforms.
Minister for Planning end Regional Development



TUNIIAk ECONOMIC AmpD FNANCIAL REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
Q~~~~~~~~~~EtN                             ta eo Acdcbgns                                  Acob hns           bct     O
do                           gTtch                        SFoond                          Thr T 
Addlev economnc g h           - ComparIg 1980.85 with         -Adopt a satsfctxey              Assessment of emcro-           Sa8me as seond twahd.
Wih suned risg per             19-90, current aount           modium-term progran. The       ecoomc peiomance and
capita consumption  d          deficks we  reduced from        proam would In pabdcular       medium-term oulook, and
dedng unwempnt                 an average d 7.9% of GDP        be montsed by the use of       adopion of stiStactory
w"ib maln_tai  ong4erm         to 33% and bude defiits         htdictom for (Q the ratio of   measures for ataning
s sahily.          from 5.96% to 4.0%. Growth     total extn  debt to GDP.        obectv
ne to econcmlof         of non-  acpot tose from      (p) the tatio of total exterm
bon nm rtn  to                 43% p. to 13.9% p.a. and        debt s evice to GDP; (ii) the
elenal ahocks. OvWQ0oe         GOP groh from 42% p.a.          net transfer of resources;
h efteds do ta Gulf alde       to 4.4% p-a. nfaon fit          (iv) the gowth of nron-l
and regional tensions,         from an average d 9.6% In       expons; (v) the gowth of
198085 to 7.1% in 19-9         manuawcured expots;
The dbt svie rato rose         (vi) the  ares of the private
from 13% In 1980 to 28% in     and public sectors in total
1988 and dined to 23.6%        borrowig and (vi) the ratio
In 19                          of budg y IWerest
paymet to govrn_mt
revenue.
- The acuent accourt dect
Is epeed to reach 5.3% of
GDP In 1991. ob8Ing a
punge In tursm rvemn
due to   Gulf CQL  A
supleme *tary finanoe law. r
was adopted In Marh 1991
and s peWd to In* th
budet decit to 3.4% of
GMP. kdiaon rwtdne
around 7%L



R. BADEk PRIC:ES AND tOMPE=lON
A. ',E UIBERAUZATION
- To continu go pokics of      - In May 1991, hipot           * At last a 15 points          aReductin In the weighting       Complet elminati  of
opeig up of th economy.       suse to quaniative              reduction (rative to May       of resicted knports,           quattae rstrcto  wrh
restriido  ware 72.2% of       1991) In the weightng of       measured In trms of 1989       the excepton of certaln
goods produced In the         restrcted Inpots, measured      domestic production to 30%     agreed kems.
doesic Industra and           In terms of 1989 domestic       below the level In May 1991.
agriukura sectors (1989        producion.
Poduco whts).
B. PRICE UBERAUZATION
- Production prices.            Over 70% of production                                       - Complete liberabatn
prices are free, measured in                                  except for certain subsidized
terms of 1989 domestic                                        goods.
- Ditition margins.            - 29.8% of distribution        Liberarization of               Achieve liberaization of       Uberalizafion of
margins are Sree, measured     distribution margins on        40% of distribution margins.   distribution margins wil
In tems of 1989 domestic       goods representing 10% of     in terms of 1989 domestic       cover 60% of 1989 domestic
productIon-                    1989 domestic production.      absor*on.                      absorption.
C. COMPTMON LAW
- Estab U of a systern         - A satactory Law on           - Adoption of measures to
to pte against                 Comnpetition was submilted     implement the system.
gapicg*s  pra0ces.             to go Nato As  mb
and fte Law on the Organi-
zation of Conmmrce
omw     admdnistrativ
baries to enty into
dWburLd 



Desiop  eit  pbt
and seoodwy ff    i In
inwnck hinubrmutL
(a) knorsa upply of and        -SIc 1967.  tIsse Treas   bonds of at
demand for nande               of ney mark%   duding          least t4o diffret matrie
kubumwnt on prnay and          CDs and commeapaper.           of more tan one year at
seconday makts                 Inroduction of Treauy          m et ylds.
bMll  Es   nl h ot ofstock
echane sautiies and            * Replacement of obligation    - Riew of expience and,        - Joht review of progress
rmuai  of reuain               on deposk banks to pla        In It of revew  ( issue         and adopdon of measures,
govening the secuits           up to 20% of eir deposts       of Treasury bonds of           on the basis of recommend-
market In 1969.                In bons ctiquipemrnt by        d      mfferent m it  in       atlons.
oblgato  to hold up to 20%     part   of longer
of the deposi in any           matuites, and (Oi teduction
TreasuLy securies, with the    of the 20% obligation.
dri  to purse thmese
seuis from any source.
(b) Reduction of stocs of                                     - Cessain of Issue of bons
finaci Intunt Isued                                           cr6qlupernent from
at nolimalt terms                                             Jyy 1, 1992.
* A program for redempton                                     e tmppenwtallon of
before maturty over 4 years                                   programn fo elmintion of
(1993&199)., In sgreed                                         o    u  stof bons
yeaty proporons, d all                                        d'
outAdi  bons crquppe-
ment Isued after 1988.
oe



ANNEX It
Page 12 of 19
.1~~~~~~~~~~.
iiIIJ.;..IIjJjf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3.:
* s~~~~~~
tss i 2   t 0;  I-   s i]3   
|ii"]-Xt{
}lleSi         SiiIi1



IV. AKIING SUPER O  Am PRURETiL REGULAION
Endow    BCT wth WMe                                         * Adop a aatisaow              - Sasfacky progrss In           Sasacoy progrss hi
mqthdd o _rgmslion, Saff.                                     psOn deny m                          ingm ie prorna               en_  program.
and teu   fu      .                                           axBlpn.
beenm # seNbas of ft
Pre  Inpection and
cono departments M
adopting  ogams or
bwpeocion of banks in 1992;
(i) reorulin and trainrng
examin; and (IV) seftn
up a compterized off-ste
impaction mod
-Bringing prudentia
regutiom and barddn
-        rtitonk  conformity
with fte besg intenatona
(a) bIprong ruls on oan        - Introduction of loan         ^ Adoption of saisftdo.y       - Joint review of the app0i-    Joirnt review of the appfi-
"IadbIfI-atlon, provionn        assfication system in         provisi        fules sing      cation of the now rudes.       cation of the rules
and  hnt  suspesIon            1987.                          minima aording to senori-                                     Introduced and study of the
ty of arrears, peuorkmance,                                   adviabilty of introducing
and sveity of class'ibcation,                                 new rules.
to be appled from I
January 1992.                   Tax exemption of specific
provWions and iest EU
penson to be raised from
20% to 25%, and elimination
of requiremet  judicbia
acfion be stated.
Assessment of efets of         Progress on exmpn
tax exenption of specific     specific proviso  from tax N
proviions                      in fth lightt of fth assetss  00
malL~~~~~~~~l
pbs h b Bisme



(b) Streng#hen udes relati- The nmaximm lendin kni                                         - Joint revW of the appil-    - Joit review of the appli-
gsk and bag con_5uraton       mid oorodkions for b                                         cation of the ruls            cation of the new ndu
to captaL                     appUcn bixed In 1987.                                       introduced and suldy of th
advisabity of Inbtoducfti
new A mgabslndn
to banksusdais
*Fixing maximum loan con       Reducton of t  loan            Redualon of the loa
cewtrtn at 40% of own         concentration   t to 35%.     c _citmt  Unlit to 25%
banks huds and adoption                                     and introduction of an
of a satisfaaory definition of                              Inse In te nminum
concpl of group of rdated                                   reel of capital adequacy for
borroers                                                    excesses over the 25% evea
Riskweghed capital             Modfcation of weighting
adequay raio establed         of balanoe sheet and off-
in 1987.                      balanoo sheet htm.
(c) Imvwnert of d nal                                       * Defjnkion of the detaed      * Adoption of audi rules for
conr tho  audtoe.                                            audk opino  to be sued        banks acordin to
by the Ocommnssaires aux       tematIonal auditng
comptese. Elmination of the   sndards    dg  the
ceiling on the costs of long  obligaton to frish 'lon
reponf audits.                repons.
Strengt     of banking       - Since 1967 the Banking      - Satisfactory proposas or     * Presentation of draft       - Adaptation as necessary of
legIslation.Law Iimposes annual review                      the amendment of banking       baning legislation to te      OCT regulations to the
o finandal staments by        legislation reflecting the    Chamber of Depufies,          reforms adopted.
offially approved              undamena tie of reform.      satisfadory to the Bank
aooowantL
Oa
'p
El 



-s    hnlng of                                               - Inkiation of revisn and      * Issue of BCT circudar on     - Adopfion of rt4ae on in-
accoutinde an                                                simplification of acowunt      acooun  and Wrst cal           omation pubrished by
pnx_eia reporting                                            ad statistical documetts       documen to be oommu.           banks in tr annual repofts
comunuicated by banks to      nicted by bak to the OCT       folowing nternatinl
th SW In conhofmiy wth         with application to te        principles.
inteatona accountig             counts f Januay 1,
-rUcle.                       1993.
* Issue of OCT circular       - Commnunication by banks
requiring banks to furnish    to the BCT of quartey profit
the BCT quarterly profit and    Al loss acoounts begin-
loss accounts.                ninm _' March 1992.
- Strengthening the solecy    - The Central Bank receives    - Jodnt review of the situa-   * Joint rewew of the           bJolnt revew of the situ-
and sbty of the banking       a variety of information       tion of the bankdng system     situation of each bank which   atlon of each bank that has
system.                        returns, including a monthly  at the end of 1990.            that has been audited or       been audcted or inspected.
balanc sht and annual                                        inspected.
profit and loss account.                                                                    * Review of progress in
- Definition of the basic     *On the basis of the           implementing the action
principles govermg the        revieds recomnendations,       plans and of the results ot
program for strengthening     imrAmntaton of action          the banks subject to action
the sovency an stabilty of    plans ained at streng-         plans for their strengthening.
banks, includg the types      thening banks already
of action to be taken for     audited and satsfactory
strenghening weak banks.      individual plans for
strengthening weak banks.
- Adopion of a programn of    - Satisfactory inplemen-       - Satisfactory Implement-
specia audits and inst-       tation of the program.         ation of program.
tonal diagnose of banks
account for at least 1/3         Adoption of a program to     Adoption of a program to
of the assets of the banking  continue specl audits and      continue special audits and
system                        nstitutional diagnoses of     Instiutional diagnoses of
banks to raise the assets of  banks to complte the
the system covered to 2/3.    coverage of the banking
systemk
0
ra
'--
k-I|



ANNEX I I
Page 16 of 19
i5fl'1a                 ttS
.11@q- i]iC4
Is
i'I..~~~~~~~~~~i
1111123'tt7              ii
I.111 i,i ,0i    t iii        li



VL SLPRO
A. T1HE SW SECURITY SYSTEM
E-almut d a sam                                                                              * Issu of gide   for th
WMt %ih bombic mag                                                                             kwesuuerw of Mid reuws
and eowd mmmdd vWy
bntiOslogem.
-oDnoe of Ih obes              -Ce atlonoat .ige
of OmrSkmdth odal                k b.taimese
"Crl  hrM                      fma banc_i of U*
scalw secrBdy eyst
- Sant    $WM of                                             * Adopdon of a saaoy
rebrenoe of studs to help                                     refm prgrn for Xt
alain the basi obsc*v  of                                      socw  se  stern an
the efm  of ft socal                                           appon  d       m
het X  n   dsk_
B. CNM            SUBSIDIES
- Reduo     k         paid     - The bMnuer of subsidtid       (i Raise pie on al sub-         ) Adional prce  crase            Rais pices again ocor-
Whe Caine O4n6Au de            poduds has been rduced          skIded commodOties accor-       acoding to 8acon pba  (B)      ding to salon pl; (ii) il-
Co    stIa (COGC).             Vow by year and ti prce         ding lo aclon pbn sub-         elmiae the subsily on Fn-       mae subsidy on com,
i_wsed From 1984 to            mined for me SAL; O  n-         potd sugar.                    soybean m a, baley & acid
190, Ouch subsidi             troduoe a sterlized milk                                        OILs
dained kom 42% to 2.9%         madewth lbca mbk wilh a
ofGDP.                            sivof 80 mlA (M)
eliminat lim subsildy on                                                             t
sup  16 for-dim.                                                                     g
OQ
- Reduce code of pro-                                             Emnte t   ansport           (I EMinat the tasport
duedon of subsidied                                            equazation scheme on           equalaton sceme on
comnocmeLss                                                    Pasta aNW couscous; (Ii)       grailn; (II) compMsasl lbera-  
kwoduoe nstrt milk             Ike   e         of add dig;
powder on to awl%& et (.)   e                      X ky4
of corn or soybean 8meL



- tove tgding o                - On the bas of a 19890        - Introduce tagedti  by        (I) Contn to h"i            nmpr  d  e
studythe Govrnmert pr-         quaft dy         by. (a)       qualty difereaton by (a)                      O ff th
pared In September 1990 an     anna undn a ptopera-          inceasing toh quanty of         study for the mils; (ai)
arlon plan o   onstg of a      tion for a bread made fonm     mik sod In wh ussi and (b)     moor  to ehnc quay
sabs of nmedum4orm             PS +2 lour, (b) shifte         carryn ote a skudy on how   ll     or        o0w
meas  cetwed on (I            subsidy an al milk padc-       to help mnes rgad               pr ; neo
boe tren of lo pop             agtng to d aper packgn         PS+2 fto  and to                       et
aon; (I) bducton In            wit th irodudlon of            execution of a pilot           dNsrbufik o systens and
dl b_uon cosi and ekt-         couss  for 9 nmllon Ite        operation for this our, (      brdudon of now systems
plcalior of the CGC            pasteurized nik (c)            dfrc sales of subsidized      sd     d by the study.
Intebention procduw and        itroduce non-subsidired.       bulk oa toward nra areas
) pri   an                     bod       oe and com e             pooreer
oAs ortoh madet on a           (ili)iceaslng  ti  to
plo-asi x                       mi dnrd for grain on
sold at cost pn) execubon
of a sdy boased on te
note already prped.
regart  the al_ave to
cirs  subsidy, pnsrx  fo
dpdvfg bnk wt
assessmeZ  of dsb
prgras and identification
of new ones
fD
co
* P



Vll. DEBT INAGW   IN
. StrenghI  of                 - Tunisia has never            ( Establishnt of a high-
tchnical nd Insftutonal        rscheduled exenal debt.        lvel comnmitte to coor-
capacity to mage the                                          dnte matrs iWolvn fe
ewdnal debt & dversify         - An asset and libilities      oourtys extna hnde
bowing  xneru t at a           manat unit (ALM) was           edness and formun e re-
me when Tundsia Is             estbshd In the Central         baed policis and sategies.
iresinly uning towrd           Bank In 19BD and 1s now
the financhal maecets In       opeational.
partular to make proper
prepario  in a ontext of
gowin access to ose
market on the part of
donestc benks & prvate
(i) Submisson of satis-       - Establishment of a unified
factory proposals by the      database with computer
high-level onmitee with       hardware, software, av'*ss
regard to the design of a     procedures and satsfato
unified datbe, needs in       coverage; acquisition of
computer hardware & soft-     appropriate know-how.
ware and trairing, based on
a report prepared by an ad
hoc commission that would
be set up to study mese
issues. The commission
would be composed of re-
presenataves from the ALM
unit, the debt offices of the
Central Bank Ministy of
Planning, Ministry of
Finance and other such                                                          SQ
expers as the autworities
deem necessary.
0e 
*Keycondltlonatyof the loan                                                                                                                      -



TUtISIA: KEY MACROECONCI INDtCATORS
........ ............. ............ ....................... ......................... .................................................... .................... . . ................  ............ .......................... .. 
1985    1986    987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993         94      995    1996    1997
...................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................ ........
GOP Growth                          5.6X  -1.4X    5.9X    1.1X    3.7X    7.1X    3.0X    2.82    4.8X    5.2X    5.2X    5.1X    5.2X
mY Growth                           4.02   -5.2X    6.0X  -1.52    4.22    7.3X    3.9%    3.32    5.22    5.2X    6.3X    4.82    5.02
GDT/Capita Growth                   0.72   -7.8%    3.6    -3.1t    2.5X    5.2X    1.8X    1.2X    3.2X    3.22    4.22    2.7X    2.9X
Cerw ptSeVcapita Growth            -0.32   -1.82   -1.02   -0.42    2.3X    3.9X    1.12   -0.1t    1.72    2.32    3.7X    2.22    2.72
GOP Deftator Growth                 4.82    3.1t    7.52    7.5X    7.3X    6.3X    7.0%    6.42    6.82    6.62    6.22    6.02    5.8X
Domestic Absorption Growth          6.7X    6.8X    7.8    10.2X    6.8X    6.12    6.2X    5.92    6.42    6.52    5.22    6.32    6.02
Total Debt Service (Ci'I.US S)  746.1   876.1  1096.4  1057.1  1193.7  1399.4  1419.4  1382.9  1330.1  1355.1  1434.6  1443.7  1569.9
Totat Debt ServiceIXGS             24.7X  28.22   28.2X  21.         23.62   23.42   25.52   22.42   19.32   17.52   17.42   15.92   15.62
Total Debt ServfcelGDP              9.0X    9.92  11.41   10.42   11.72   11.22   1.1X   10.32    9.12    8.52    8.32    7.62    7.6X
Total oDo/oGP                      58.92   66.72   70.02   66.52   67.4X  61.02   61.32   61.32   59.42   57.32   54.92   52.6X   50.12
Gross Investmant/GDP               26.6X 23.52   20.62   19.42   22.72   26.6X  24.1X  23.12   24.42   24.82  25.02  25.1S   25.42
Gross Domestic Savings/GDP         20.42   16.2%  19.6X  19.82  18.6X  19.32   18.5X   19.6X   20.82   21.52   21.82   22.22   22.32
Gross Natienal Savlngs/GDP         19.4    15.5   19.62   20.32   19.52   21.32   19.22   20.22   21.52   22.2X   22.5X   23.02   23.2X
Nrwinal Damestic Saving ST         -0.94  -54.22    0.72  -19.02   -9.82   -4.1X  29.62   20.12   36.82   37.92   38.2X  35.2X   30.3X
Private Investment/40P             21.12   18.6X   16.62   15.22   18.32   21.2X   18.5    18.0X   19.42   20.22   20.72   20.92   21.2X
Private Swving/GDP                 13.82  10.3X  14.7X   14.92   17.6X  17.32   16.0   17.6   18.92   19.52  19.8x   20.2   20.12
Public Inmestment/lDP   1/          4.52    4.12    3.52    3.62    3.9X    4.94    5.1X    4.7X    4.42    4.2X   4.0X    3.92    3.9X
Pubic Saving/GDP  1/                6.62    5.92    4.9%    4.9X    1.0X    2.12    2.6X    2.12    2.02    2.02    2.02    2.02    2.22
Ratio of P"tic/Private Invest   21.52   22.22   21.12   23.62   21.52   23.1    27.42   26.12   22.72   20.3  19.3   18.6    18.42
tOOR S5                             7.2    10.8      7.0     7.7      7.7     6.2      4.7     5.5     4.7      4.6     5.1      4.7     4.4
Government Revenuw/oDP             31.92   31.8X  29.6    30.0X  29.32   27.32   27.22   27.4X   26.62   25.82   25.02   24.42   24.12
Governmt Expenditure/GDP           36.92   37.3X   32.72   33.62   33.12   31.12   30.52   30.12   29.12   28.12   27.22   26.42   26.12
Govermnt Deficit/fCP                4.92    5.S    3.12    3.62    3.82    3.82    3.4X    2.72    2.5%    2.32    2.22    2.02    2.O2
Exports Growth  2/                  3.32    5.2X  14.5X   23.6X    3.32    1.32   -4.52    7.42    6.52    7.9X  -1.7X    7.22    6.22
Exports/GDP                        32.62   30.8X 35.02   41.9   44.12   41.82   38.7   41.0X   42.42   43.92   42.8X   43.6  44.22
Iaports Growth  2/                -13.0X  -2.12   -3.2X  15.8X   15.12    8.1X   -6.3X    3.7X    7.6X    7.6t   O.OX    5.9X    6.0O
lworts/GDP                         38.72   38.02   36.0X  41.52   48.22   49.02   44.3X  44.4    45.9X  47.1   46.0    46.62   47.32
Current Account Deficit CUS*)  -588.6  -704.9   -98.3    97.2  -329.2  -660.6  .631.9  -387.4  -418.1  -406.1  -431.6  -410.0  -452.1                                      X
Current Accommt Deficit/GOP         7.12    8.0X    1.02  -1.0X    3.2X    5.32    5.02    2.92    2.92    2.52    2.52    2.22    2.22                                 o
Net of Interest CAD/QDP            -3.8    -4.3X    2.8X    5.0    0.9X  -1.92   -1.42    0.8X    0.7X    0.8X    0.7X    0.9X    0.7X                                    H
Teoem of Trade (1980tO10)          94.8    84.8    86.1    83.7    84.6    84.2    84.7    86.3    87.4    87.8    89.3    88.9    88.6
.... ..... __........................ .................................................. ... .... ...................... .................................   ........ .............
1/ Pubtic Sector is defined as Central Government.
2/ TM decline in 1995 Is due to entry into production of a new oil refinery. Exports of crude oil and imports of refined products decline.



rJNSIA: BALANCE Of PAYHENTS
(IN MILLIONS Of US DOLLARS)
, ._...._._....  _____.................  _,................. .................................. ..................................... .................................................................._
1985    1986    19M7    1988    1989    1990   991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   199?
_................................................................................................................................................  
OAL EXPORTS ONFS                     2699.9  2721.9  3371.0  4242.9  4488.8  5228.2  4935.8  5498.3  6190.1  6989.1  7432.9  8265.0  9145.7
GOODS FOB                           179.2  1768.0  2136.7  2396.2  2930.6  3516.6  3563.2  3898.1  4333.2 4829.2  5056.4  5650.3  6268.7
uS                                   970.8  953.9  1240.3  1846.7  1558.2  1711.6  1372.6  1600.3  1856.8  2159.8  2376.4  2614.7  2617.0
TOTAL IIPORtS fNFS                   3207.1  3364.0  3472.8  4205.9  4906.4  6131.4  5646.3  5963.0  6706.0  7510.2  7992.9  8827.6  9775.2
GOtlDS FOB                          2557.2  2750.S  2824.4  3443.9  4079.2  5153.5  4793.9  5051.3  5701.1  6401.S 6794.1  7513.7 8333.1
UFS                                  649.9  613.5   648.4   761.9  827.1  977.9  852.4  911.7  1004.9  1108.7  1198.8  1313.8  1442.1
RESCE BALANCE                        -507.1  -642.1   -95.8    37.1  -417.6  -903.2  -710.5  -464.7  -515.9  -521.1  -560.0  -562.5  -629.6
NET FACTOR INCO1                     -351.7  -421.7  -485.9  -497.8  -473.1  -404.9  -459.4  -496.2  -499.7  -510.5  -522.3  -527.7  -533.6
TOTAL FACTOR SERV. REV.                47.9    28.1    24.6    53.4    76.9  165.0   109.5  105.3   118.9  136.1   155.4  172.9   194.7
TOTAL FACTOR SERV. PATIENTS           399.6   49.7   510.6  551.2  550.0  569.9  568.9  601.5   618.7  646.6  677.7  700.5  728.3
INTERST PATNTS                     270.9  326.4   367.6  408.4  424.3  426.2  448.1   499.8   514.8  536.0  560.2  573.8  589.9
MIET C RR.TRAUSFERS                   270.2  358.8  483.4   557.9  561.5  647.5  538.0  573.5  597.6  625.5  650.7  680.2   711.0
CURRENT TRNSFERS REV.                 291.2  377.1   502.5   572.6   572.0  669.1   558.6  595.4   620.7  650.0  676.4   707.0  739.0
NET WORE REMITTANCES                 259.6   351.8  479.3   538.5  489.8  591.7  519.1   553.7  576.7  603.6  627.7  656.0  685.6
CURENT TRSFERS PAY.                    21.0    18.3    19.1    14.7   10.5    21.6    20.5    21.9    23.1   24.4    25.6    26.8   28.0
CWENT ACCMMT BALANCE                 -88.6  -704.9  -98.3    97.2  -329.2  -660.6  -631.9  -387.4  -418.1  -406.1  -431.6  -410.0  -452.1
LONG TM  CAPITAL INFLOW               492.2  469.3   133.4   404.1   350.5  561.5  656.2  566.8  639.5  666.5  676.5  716.8   715.5
OFFICIAL GRANTS                        36.5    40.6   34.5    59.9   73.7   80.8    31.6    40.9    42.1   63.0    43.4   43.4    43.4
FDF1                                  139.5   155.0   92.3   110.2   136.9  185.2   168.4   181.4  195.3  212.9  236.3  262.3   M.8
NET LT LOANS (DES)                    291.6  269.8    30.9   224.8  149.9  302.4  461.2  344.5   399.0  415.6  408.8  430.1  378.3
DISBURSENMT                          731.3   M.4  692.3   828.5  879.3  1127.3  1263.0  1169.2  1182.3  1199.8  1227.4  1211.8  1281.3
ANORTIZATtION                        439.7  503.6  661.4   603.7  729.4  824.9  801.8  824.7   783.3  784.1   818.6  781.8  903.0
OTIER NET IT INFLOS (NO-SUARANTEE   24.5        4.0  -24.3       9.3  -10.0   -7.0   -5.0        0.0      3.0   -5.0  -12.0  -19.0        0.0
TOTAL OTHER NET                       -16.2   43.3    81.4  -123.1    76.6    16.1  -182.2    19.9   48.1    51.9   29.1    53.4   60.8                            0 
OTHER CAPITAL NEI                    -28.9   -1.5    53.3  -202.9   35.5  -242.5    97.3        0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
IIET SNORT TERM DEBT                  12.7   44.8    28.1    79.8   41.1   258.6  -279.6    19.9   48.2    51.9   29.1    53.4   60.8                              o
CHANGE IN NET FOREIGN  ESERVES        112.6  192.3  -1P6.4  -378.3  -98.0    83.0   157.9  -199.3  -269.5  -312.3  -274.0  -360.2  -324.2
IMF CNANGE IN RESERES                 0.0   175.7   53.0    20.2      0.0  -111.3   76.5    42.0   -5.1        0.0  -13.8  -39.1  -47.0
OTHER CIANGE                        112.6    16.6  -169.5  -398.5  -98.0  194.3   81.4  -241.3  -264.4  -312.3  -260.2  -321.1  -277.2
__.................................................................................................................. ..................... ....................... ... ......................................................



TUNISIP: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(IN MILLIONS OF US OLLARS)
.............. ............................ ...................... ................................................ . ... .. ................. ................... ........................
1965    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    t995    1996    1997
__._.... .. .. ... _........ . ....... .........._. ........... ...... .......... .. ._. . ..    _    _............................                                                                      ..
SNARES OF GDP (ORENT USIS)
_,.. ........... ................................ ...
RESOURCE BALANCE/CDP                                       6.11    7.31    1.0X   -0.4S    4.1X    7.2X    5.6X    3.51    3.51    3.31    3.21    3.01    3.01
TOTAL INTEREST                                             3.31    3.7X    3.81    4.01    4.21    3.41    3.51    3.71    3.51    3.41    3.21    3.01    2.91
CURREIT ACC.DEF/iGDP                                       7.11    8.01    1.01   -l.t'o   3.21    5.31    5.01    2.91    2.92    2.5X    2.51    2.21    2.21
LONG TERN CAPITAL INFLOW                                   5.9X    5.31    1.41    4.01    3.41    4.51    5.1X    4.21    4.41    4.21    3.9X    3.81    3.5X
NET CREDIT FRON INF                                        0.0X    2.02    0.51    0.21    0.01   -0.92    0.61    0.31    0.01    0.01   -0.1X   -0.22   -0.21
MEMORANDIM ITEM:
.__............ .....    ........ ......
GOP (In mfillions US$)                                8280.4  8842.6  9650.1 10123.6 10175.9 12512.8 12757.9 13424.6 14596.3 15935.3 17380.8 18946.1 20675.0
FORE!tG EXCHANE RESERVES
................... ........................... ..........
GROSS RESERMVS (IFS)                                    293.8  378.4  616.0  976.0  1036.9  866.8  708.9  908.1  1177.6  1489.9  1764.0  2124.2  2448.3
Gross Rerves(monthe iqwts)                                 1.1         1.3         2.1         2.8         2.5         1.7         1.5         1.8         2.1         2.4         2.6         2.9         3.0
EXCHANGE RATES (DINARS/USS)
........................... ................................. ..  
NOMINAL EXCHNAGE RATE                                 0.8345  0.7940  0.8287  0.8578  0.9493  0.8783  0.9500  0.9880  1.0176  1.0451  1.0702  1.0938  1.1156
REK EFFECTIVE EXCHAGE RATE                              148.3   127.1   109.2   105.4   103.0   100.0   103.1   103.5   103.7   103.8  103.9   103.9   104.0
(1990=100)
.................. ..................................... .... ...... ....... ............. ... .... .. .. ..................... ........................................................................................... .. ...
iiH
t-4



ANN-EXAIV
Page 1 of I
REPUBUC OF TUNISIA
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL REFORMS SUPPORT LOAN
SuRRiementan, Project Data She
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:             About 8 months
(b) Reponsiiity for project preparation:       Ministry of Planning and Regional
Development/Bank
(c) Project first identffled by Bank:          Apri 1991
(d) Bank Apprasal Mission:                     July 1991
(e) Negotitions:                               October 1991
(fl Planned date of effectiveness:             December 1991
Setion 11: Soecia Bank imglemenatlon Actions
None.
Secon III: Soecla- Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effetiveness and Release of First Tranche (US$100 miQllonl
[See pwagraph 611
(b) Condtns fOr Release of Second Tranche (US$70 milion)
[See paragraph 621
(c) CondiiMons for Release of Third Tranche (USS80 million)
(See paagfaph 63]



8'                  9'                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10                    11
BIZERTEk
~~~~R., Dmeb.1
3 7 .                                                             ,                             t                              1,  F.  ...................................................r o e  El  A n... .n   37 '
'C       - 30)         +   f      ;rtTit506  'z                                        -            * "            >g -or
36-'~<                                                                                                     -        ,       d     oel                                                       36.
\holo   ~                  a' bx             UJ  fi          "\ '                                MAtIDJA!y 
/ jl   )         )    >~~~~~~~~~~So <j<Bo                         In        xJ                     Ksooi-Esot
t K A t V R ~~~~~~~~~Allch                                                             54 'Tei'    X Chebbo
447                       KASs>R E R A ISd ET
-35-'                                                  Wr                       /      ID          CUI                                                }Diebarnarsa                          35-
l (  RdhtTM/'lnnui
36'                                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~36'
@      Naioa   Capita                                            KILOMETFSC                    J
             Gae/rr   Caitols                     E          5          n  Dw-  
at          Pat                 Ku iE iBnnaon I    Lianpmno_'A                                                                                      o'
0  nasrin 7   i    50niiii    7S                                         N                                  >
a'                                                   aci ioniniid,i,is        I          MTh  J>                                           N.l :_.
O~         EoenrJeCDlosrqmtosrnrr/cr
Poved Roods 0, rhr f anvPmrr P lr ;;t . M\NASTI
RoIh5>, mfD'vtw"h/Rmdji P F...,_,,-
+  Alrports           uNrdshdthestaordUttheshrvs                                             i                 12~~MAHDI
Ti     Gcernrot   30ndcie              p.it e TD wwodFS7k  J t.;                          \>               : r1   4z     -F   -fA J      II    
m   --  Internaiionol 80undaries                  _KSSrtentono.*ot7Sws                                     'v            s                /  >-f-                  j D~~~~~~B 
{ B- 4 o \ n / Nl.t ~~~~~~~R   :N  E                                                           hA                                                  hob



