Page  1
H.E. Mustapha K. Nabli                                 April 20, 1993
Minister of Plan and Regional Development
Ministry of Plan and Regional Development
Place Ali Zouaui
Tunis
Republic of Tunisia
                  Re:  Loan No. 3424 TUN
                       (Economic and Financial Reforms Support Loan)
                       Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Your Excellency:
         The Republic of Tunisia (the Borrower) and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the World
Bank) concluded on December 13, 1991, a Loan Agreement (the World
Bank Loan Agreement) for the Economic and Financial Reforms Support
Loan.  The World Bank Loan Agreement, which provided the Borrower
with a Loan in an amount equivalent to two hundred and fifty million
United States dollars (250,000,000) became effective on December 23,
1991.
The Borrower has also obtained from the Export-Import Bank of Japan
(the EXIMBANK) a loan for the same purpose and in an amount in Yen
equivalent to one hundred and twenty million United States dollars
($120,000,000) under an agreement (the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement)
concluded between the Borrower and the EXIMBANK on March 31,  1993.
 The Preamble to the EXIMBANX Loan Agreement acknowledges that the
Co-Lenders Agreement between the EXIMBANK and the World Bank dated
March 31, 1993, pertaining to the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement and the
World Bank Loan Agreement, provides that the World Bank shall,
subject to the agreement of the Borrower, incorporate a
cross-default clause in respect of the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement in
the World Bank Loan Agreement.
         Accordingly, we propose to you the following amendments to
the World Bank Loan Agreement:
    1.   In Section 1.02, the word "and" appearing at the end of
paragraph (j) is ,    deleted, the "." appearing at the end of
paragraph (k) is changed to ";" and the   following new paragraphs
are added to read as follows:
    "(l)  "EXIMBANK" means the Export-Import Bank of Japan;
     (m)  "EXIMBANK Loan Agreement means the Loan Agreement
     (Economic and Financial Reforms Support Loan) entered into
     between the Borrower and the EXIMBANK on March 31, 1993; and
     (n)  "EXIMBANK Loan means the loan provided under the EXIMBANK
Loan Agreement."
2.   In Article IV, the heading "Additional Event of Suspension" is
changed to read "Remedies of the Bank".
3.   In Section 4.01, a new paragraph (c) is added to read as
follows:
     "(c)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
     (A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the
     EXIMBANK Loan shall have been suspended,  cancelled,  or
     terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
     EXIMBANK Loan Agreement; or
     (B)  the EXIMBANK Loan shall have become due and payable prior
     to the agreed maturity thereof.
     (ii) Subparagraph  (i)  of this paragraph  shall not apply  if
     the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
     (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring
Page  2
     is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
     its obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds
     for the Program are available to the Borrower from other
     sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
     obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement."
4.   In Article IV, a new Section 4.02 is added to read as follows:
     "Section 4.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
     Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
     namely, the event specified in paragraph (c)  (i)  (B)  of
     Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
     proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section."
         Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing by signing
and dating the form of confirmation on the enclosed copy of this
letter and returning it to us.  Given its interest in this matter,
a copy of this letter will then be sent to the Export-Import Bank of
Japan.
                                            Very truly yours,
                                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                                           Harinder S. Kohli
                                              Director
                                          Maghreb Department
                                 Middle East and North Africa Region
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By __________________________
    Authorized Representative
Date: 21 May 1993
