Docwment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9071-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
APRIL 9, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Region
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in tie pterfornas c of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banks autborizadion.



CURRINCY UQUIVALINTS
(June 1990)
Currency Unit                      -  Bangladesh Taka (Tk)
Bangladesh Taka 1                  -  US$0.029
US$l                               *  Tk 34.9 (Official Rate),
Tk 35.6 (Secondary Market Rate)
VEIGHTS AND MEASURIS
1 kilometer (km)                   -  0.62 mile (mi)
I hectare (ha)                     a  2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (ton)                 a  2,205 pounds (lbs)
1 crore                            -  10 million
ABJRVIATIONS
ADB    Asian Development Bank
ADP    Annual Development Program
ATI    Agricultural Training Institute
BADC   Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BARC   Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
BARI   Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
BJRI   Bangladesh Jute Research Institute
BRRI   Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
3S     Block Supervisor
BSU    Breeder Seed Unit
CERDI  Central Extension Resources Development Institute
DAR    Department of Agricultural Extension
DD     Deputy Director
DPS    Field Services Division of DAE
DTC    District Technical Committee
DTW    Deep Tubevell
FAOICP Food and Agricultural Organization Cooperative Program (with World
Bank)
GOB    Government of Bangladesh
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
HYV    High Yielding Varietv
IDA    International Development Association
LCB    Local Competitive Bidding
MOA    Ministry of Agriculture
NGO    Non-Governmental Organization
NSB    National Seed Board
ODA    Overseas Development Administration of the United Kingdom
P1W    Project Implementation Wing
SIDC   Seed Industry Development Cell
sIu    Seed Industry Unit
SOE    Statement of Expenditure
TD     Training Division of DAB
T&V    Training and Visit
UOA    Upazilla Agricultural Officer
UND?   United Nations Development Programme
USAID  United States Agency for International Development
IWPC    Woman Program Coordinator
GLOSSARY
Aman       - Rice crop planted before or during the monsoon and harvested in
November/December
Aus        - Rice planted in February/March and harvested in June/July
B.         - When preceding a crop means broadcast
Boro       - Rice planted in January/February and harvested in May/June
Rabi       - Winter cropping season (November through May)
T.         - When preceding a crop means transplanted
Upazilla   -  Smallest administrative unit of local government
nSCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BALADZSH
AGRICULTA  SUPPORT SERVICES PROJCT
Credit and Project Su ary
Borrawerr       People's Republic of Bangladesh
DenUficEZn:   The Foundation (which will implement the project's
agro-business component)
Auouta          SDR 24.4 million (US$35.0 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard, vith a 40 years' maturity
Oolendina       The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) will onlend SDR 7.08
Tanrs:         million (US$10.2 million equivalent) to the Foundation at the
prevailing shadow market rate for agricultural lending, less a
margin of 7Z. The Foundation will relend to participating
farmers at the shadow market rate. GOB will, in addition,
pass on to the Foundation SDR 1.2 million (US$1.7 million) as
a grant.
Prolect         The primary project objective will be to improve the impact of
Description:    agricultural support services as a means to raising the
standard of living in the farming community as a whole,
irrespective of gender or land ownership. The needs of women
involved in agriculture will be specifically addressed.
Subsidiary objectives will be to: (a) make the technology
transfer process more responsive to farmer needs; (b) improve
the outreach capability of the extension service so that all
sections of the raral community have access to improved
technology; (c) encourage the full panrticipation of private
sector seed companies in the supply of both food and cash crop
seeds; and (d) remove restrictive seed regulations so as to
provide farmer access to a complete range of imported improved
crop varieties. Through a pilot component the project also
aims at promoting agro-business opportunities to increase the
production options for farming enterprises. At the same time
the project will support the compatible objective of improving
the cost-effectiveness of public sector services through
adopting more efficient outreach techniques in the technology
transfer process and reducing surplus staff. These objectives
will be achieved through: (a) a program of on-farm
demonstrations and farmer field days; (b) farmer-information
media campaigns; (c) special Uparilla initiatives in
technology development and transfer, with matching funds;
(d) upgrading training for all Department of Agricultural
Extension (DAE) staff cadres; (e) expansion of the breeder
seed operations and regulatory reform to improve seed industry
efficiency; (f) technical assistance and institutional
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



development in DAB and the major research institutes:
and (g) a pilot component for the development of horticultural
export production among small farmers. The project will have
natLonal coverage.
en eflts and   The principal project benefit will be increased agricultural
U skcs          production.  Increases in foodgrain and cash crop production
will be derived from the technology transfer process and
better seeds. In addition, there will be an annual cost
saving to GOD of about US$1 aillion from staff reductions.
With construction activities having a wide geographical spread
and many of them located in areas vith difflcult access, there
may be som delays with their IaplmnatatLon. However,
execution of simLlar clvil works under previous projects has
been satisfactory. There is also a possible risk that COB's
local taka allocations made through the Annual Developmont
Program may be instifficient to utilize the full IDA funding as
projected in the Staff Appraisal Report implementation
schedule. However, the project is part of GOB's core funded
developmnt program and as such will have a priority ranking
for access to local taka resources. Any re-intervention of
GO3 in agrLcultural inputs distributlion and sale would sharply
increase farmer costs and interfere with the timely
availability of inputs. There is a low probability of this
happening given the present scope of private sector
involvement and its operational efficiency. Production and
marketing difficulties may be encountered in the establishment
of small farmer horticultural export enterpriess. To deal
with such difficulties, a parallel United States Agency for
International Development (USAID)-financed project is expected
to provLde agronomic, financial and managment assistance to
these new ventures. Farmer foodgrain prices could come under
severe downw rd pressure if the present accelerated production
trends continue and adjustments are not made in food aid
policies. Food aid donors and GO are already working on this
issue. Finally, there is a risk that the project's pilot
component for agro-business development may not take shape.
since (a) the Foundation has yet to be establishoed (b) there
may be problems in reaching agreement on a satLsfactory
subsidiary agreoment between COB and the Foundation for the
channeling of IDA funds; and/or (c) the agreement between
USAID and 00G on financing the establishment and basic
operations of the Foundation may not be signed. To guard
against this risk, suitable disburosmnt conditions have been
included in the project.



Zstimteed Costst
Local      Foreign      Total
-------- (US$ million)--------
A.  TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER            12.3         3.7         16.0
B.  TRAINING                        9.6         2.4         12.0
C.  SEED DEVELOPMENT                1.4         0.8          2.2
D.  HOMESTEAD PRODUCTION            2.1         2.2          4.3
E. AGRO-BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT        4.6         5.5         10.1
F.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE            2.4         2.7          5.1
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS        32.4        17.3         49.7
Physical Contingencies          0.2         0.1          0.3
Price Contingencies             6.9         2.5          9.4
TOTAL COSTS                 39.5        19.9         59.4
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign     Total
---------…(US$ million)-------
Government                          9.6         0.1         9.7
ODA                                 8.5         6.2        14.7
IDA                                21.4        13.6        35.0
Total                       39.5         19.9        59.4
estimted Disbursementst
IDA FY              1992    1993    1994      1995     1996      1997     1998
Annual              0.1      7.6     11.2      6.1      5.4       2.6      2.0
Cumulative          0.1      7.7    18.9      25.0     30.4     33.0      35.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Map: IBRD No. 22658



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SIPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page go.
I.  THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
A.  Agriculture in the Economy   ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
The  Setting ....... .  .  .       .   .     .   .   .   .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  I
Growth Prospects . . . . . .   . . . . .. . . . . . . . .  . . .    2
Prerequisites for Grofth .o.r.G.o.t.h.....    ...................  S
B.  Support Services for Foodcrop Agriculture  . . . . . . . . . . .    S
General    .  .    .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .    .    . .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .0 **
Extension Services . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .... .  .          4
Research    .    .   .   .   .   .   .  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  5
Input  Supply  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  7
Agro-business  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
C.  IDA's Agricultural Sector Development Strategy   . . . . . . . .    8
Past Lending Operations  . . . .    . . ......... . .
Strategy and Rationale for Further IDA Involvement . . . . . .    9
RI. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Design Considerations  .0..........                         10
B.  Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              11
Project Description  . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
C.  Project Components                                                  12
Technology Transfer  ..... ..... ......... .   12
Training         &     a**         &     &                          14
Seed Industry Development  ..................    15
Homestead Production . . .    ..............    15
Agro-business Development  ..................                     16
Technical Assistance ................                   ..        16
D.  Environmental Aspects  ................. .                 .-.9.0   17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Bangladesh in June/July 1990. Mission members were MIM R. Wallace,
F. Thornley and W. Roider of IDA, K. de Alvis (PAO/CP), D. Daines, N. Axinn
and Justice K. Subhan (Consultants). The report has been endorsed by Messrs.
Groves (Acting Director, Country Department 1, Asia Region), and Helman
(Chief, Agriculture Operations Division). The peer review team comprised
Messrs. Antholt, Eisa and Serejski, who reviewed the overall project content,
the project's agro-business component and the extension component,
respectively.



PaiO No.
E.  Status of Preparation and Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . .   18
F.  Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  is
G.  Project Financing  . , . . . . . .. . .    . . . . . . . . . . .  19
'.  Procurement                . . . . . .                . . *.  .   21
I.  Disbursements            .  .. . . . . . .  * **                  22
J.  Accounts and Audit   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..*** * * *    23
III. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEHENT
A.  General                    . . . . . . . . .                      24
B.  Technology Transfer  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            24
DAR Field Services Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
C.  Tra i ing  . .. . .. . . 00060t. . 9*&000. ........................ 25
D.  Seed Industry Development  . ....... .........*                  25
E.  Homestead Production   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
F.  Agro-business  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
G.  Monitoring and Evaluation  .. ..*.....*..a..*.                    28
IV. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES, AND FISCAL IMPACT
A.  Agricultural Production  ....................    29
Crends Yed  . . . . . . . . . .                                 29
Crop Yields  . . . . 0* *** *b                                  2S
B.  Marketing and Prices   ..  ...............                        29
Maketinga v * * *v * * * s                                    29
Prices                                                          soXv @ @@ * * * ** v * 3
C.   Fiscal  Impact  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ,  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  30
V.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
General     .  .  o  v   o  o  0  0  0  6  0  0  4  0  0 v  0 v  0  0 *           ***      31
Riskfts  .  .    . o.     .  .   .   .   .     . .     . .     .   .   .   .  ,   .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  32
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOHMENDATION      . . .    . . . .    .    33
TABLES IN THE TEXT
2.1 Project Cost Sumfary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
2.2 Financing Plan   .                                                20
2.3 Methods of Procurement   ........ . e . . . . . e          . .   22
ANNEXES
1 Technology Transfers   ..............                               35
2 Technical Assistance                 ..................             36
3 Project Cost Tables  .......................    44
4 Economic Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   64
5 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   67
6 Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File  . . . .   68
MAP IBRD No. 22658



AGUICULTOUAL   P1PORS sEViCEs PROJICT
I.  T               LGVICMLTUUSECTOR
A.  Atricultur  In the Econom
The setting
1.1       Bangladesh has a population of about 110 million, growing at an
annual rate of about 2.5Z. The majority of people depend on agriculture for a
living. Self-Sufficiency in foodgrains has been a central objective of the
Government's agricultural strategy since independence. After a period of
strong public sector involvement, the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) shifted
the emphasis of its sector strategy towards economic liberaliation, and
encouraged private sector participation in a range of agrlcultural support
services. Public expenditures are being reoriented in favor of low-cost
irrigation, flood control and drainage investments, and GOB is seeking ways to
improve the cost *ffectiveness and performance of research, extension, and
credit services. Substantial progress has been achieved, but much more
remains to be done.
1.2       Agriculture dominates the economy, generating about 50Z of the
Gross Domestic Product (GDP), employing some 75Z of the labor force, and
accounting for about 60Z of export earnings. Foodgrains predominate, with
rice comprising over three-fourths of the 9.6 midlion hectares (ha) cropped
area. Crops contribute about 752 of agricultural GDP, the balance coming from
fishery, forestry and livestock. Despite climatic extremes foodgrain
production has, in the 1980. (1981-1990), increased at an annual rate of about
2.6Z. However, the combination of major floods, cyclones and droughts has
masked the actual production capability and, to a lesser extent, the impact of
policy reforms in the sector.
1.3       Foodgrain production in the decade has grown marginally more than
the population, but overall production has, until 1990, fallen well short of
requirements. This has necessitated, in most years, the importation of 1-2
million tons of grain. However, in 1990, foodgrain production rose to about
19.5 million tons, 17? above the previous record and close to the estimated
self-sufficiency level. Good weather, better input distribution, and an
accelerated expansion of investment in minor irrigation combined to achieve
this result.
1.4       Agricultural production increases during the decade have mainly
come from the increased use of irrigation, yet crop yields have remained
stagnant. Up to 1982 the irrigated area was about 1.3 million ha out of an
estimated potential of 7.6 million ha. From 1982 to 1989, irrigated area
doubled to 2.6 million ha and this trend will likely continue. The new
irrigated areas have been developed mainly through the installation of shallow
and deep tubewells and use of low lift pumps to exploit surface water
resources. The growth in foodgrain production has been partially at the



-2-
expense of other crops. There has teen a sipnificant decline in dry season
pulse and oil seed production due to oetter financial returns from rice and,
for similar reasons, there has been a steady fall in area planted with jute.
15        The demand for increased agricultural production will be
substantial. With the current rate of growth, population will reach
140 million by the year 2000 and, at present consumption levels, will require
an additional 6 million tons of foodgrains annually. Furthermore, given the
known limitations in non-agricultural resources, the sector's export potential
will need to be fully exploited to meet the country's growing foreign exchange
requirements.
*owth Promecte
1.6       In this densely populated country there is negligible scope for
increasing the cultivated area. Growth must therefore come from increasing
cropping Intensity (presently about 150X), by continued expansion of the
irrigated area, and by lifting crop yields. The scope for Increased
irrigation is large, and the National Water Plan has estimated that an
additional 2.8 million haY could be irrigated through low-cost groundwater
and surface-water investments. Aggressive pursuit of irrigation expansion is
the main pillar of the Government's agricultural strategy for the next decade,
a strategy strongly endorsed by IDA.
1.7       Full development of the irrigation potential and its continued use
mainly for winter rice, would, at present yields, generate an additional 8-10
million tons of foodgrains. However, the potential exists to raise the
average yield of irrigated winter rice. Currently at 2.4 tons/ha1, a figure
of about 3.2 tons/ha could be within the reach of the average farmer provided
adequate inputs and Improved varieties are readily available, and better crop
husbandry methods are adopted. Such an increase will generate a further
4 million tons annually.
1.8       Desirable now, significant national yield improvements will become
essential for growth when the potential for irrigation reaches its limits. As
this occurs, and irrigation water becomes increasingly scarce, effectiveness
of water usw will become vital. Alternatives to winter rico, a heavy water
user, will become more attractive. Supplementary irrigation to the main flood
season rice crop late in the growing season could raise its low yield (about 1
ton/ha) by perhaps 0.5 ton/ha. This will give a return per unit of water
higher than for winter rice. Wheat, which has been vigorously promoted as an
alternative winter crop with lower water demands, is expected to be of
moderate interest because of agro-clipatic constraints and because
profitability is affected by the downward pressure on its price by food aid
imports (para. 4.4). However, there is a small but rapidly expanding acreage
v    A figure Bank staff consider conservative.
-    Rice yields aro shown as tons/ha of cleaned grain, paddy yields are
higher by a factor of 1.6.



of malse and, with farmer achlovlng yields of 2-3 tons/ha, lt would soon that
thli crop has the potentlal to become a part of the main cropplng systos.
Furthermore, opportunities exist for extendlng the use of supploemntary
irrigation to non-rlce crops. Around Dhaka and other large towns, vegetble
and fruit productlon is already established. Increased water uso w11 be
instrumental ln further developmnt of these crops and thelr potential for
generating fresh and processed items. Achievement of full beefilts fro
lncreases and Improved effectlveness of water use w1i depend upon better
agricultural support services, partlcularly in extenslon and research.
Prereauulstes for Growth
1.9       To achieve sustainable growth levels that wll provide for food
self-sufficiency and expandlng exports, the Government l purouing a strategy
that woulds (a) further-llberalliz  the sale of ainor irrigatiom equipment;
(b) improve and reorlent agrlcultural research and extension systal Cc)
remove practlces restrlcting Import of the major crop seeds and the
involvement of prlvate seed companles ln their supplys (4) strengthn the
agrlcultural credit system through-olicy and Lnstitutlonal reform  to loprove
lts effectiveness: and (e) establlsh a fraework of policies that w11
encourage private sector development of agro-businses export opportunltles.
in addition, GOD, in conjunction with the mjor foodgrain donors, will need to
ensure that food aid pollcy is supportlve of domestic agricultural growth.
All of the above items are under actlve consideration by Government with the
coordinated assistance of the donors, most notably IDA, the Unlted States
Agency for International Development (USAID) and the Aslan Development lank
(ADB).
D.  unnort Services for Poodcrou AKriculture
General
1.10      Support services for foodcrop agriculture are primarily thi
responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), except that extension
staff at the Upazilla5v level come under the administrative control of the
Parishad (Council). These staff receive, however, technical d"rection fro
MOA. MOA'ss largest unit is the Department of Agrlcultural Extension (DAN),
which is headed by a Director General and has about 21,500 staff. Its field
Services Division (DFS) is responsible for extension, and its Training
Division (TD) for training. DAB also includes the Seed Certification Agency
and the Plant Protectlon Dlvision. The Bangladesh Agricultural Research
Council (BARC) is responsible for research, and is chaired by the Secretary of
MOA. Its two main institutes, the Bangladesh Agrlcultural Research Institute
(BARI) and the Rice Research Instltute (BIi) are directly answrable to NDA
Also under MOA is the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (B=DC)
which is the main producer and suppller of cowmercial seed and mbich plays an
important, though declining, role in fertllizer and irrigation equipment
5 A sub-divlslon of a district having revenue raising and spending authority.,



-4-
supply. The National Seed Board (N15) advises MOA on seed industry issues and
guides seed industry development.
hztesiom Serviess
1.11      WLth the asslitance of two IDA-supported projects - Extension and
Research (Cr. 729-BD) and xztension and Research 2I (Cr. 1215-3D) - GOB has
worked to Improve extension services by Lntroducing a modified Training &
Visit (T&V) approach ln the northwest rogion and subsequently *xtonding thli
approach to most of the country. Simultaneously sevoral comodLty orlented
eztensLon programs were integrated Lato a unLfled service   At the lowest
administratlve lovel of servlce are about 11,000 (mostly malo) Block
SupervLsors (38) who are distrlbuted at a ratlo of 1 to 1,000 fanore. The 38
are managed by Upaillo, AgrLcultural OffLcore (UAO) who are supported by a
group of Subject Matter Officers at each of' the 467 Upaillas. Since 1984
these Upasilla level-staff have been under the administrative control of-the
elected local government councll - the Uparllla Parishad. Prior to that tim
they "re at the end of DAN's chain of commnd from Dhaka.  This change, which
resulted from 0OB's decentralisatLin program, covering flold staff at most
MlnistrLes, caused budgetary and adminLstrative inefficiencLes which delayed
payment of stipends and lowered staff morale. These problems have now been
overcome. Morale at the high!er levels of DAN was also affected by the loss of
administratlve control and many are not yet reconclled to the situation.
1.12      Under the IDA-assisted projects a cadre of 560 female extension
agents was established in an effort to begin the process of bringing women
within reach of the *etension service. However, this initiative has had
limited success. Initially the female agents were posted at the district
level, without transport. More recently they have been moved to the Upazilla
level, but their role lacks adequate definition and they have not been trained
for their role.
1.13      The T&V concept of extension emphasizes a strict adminLstrative
regime for all staff to achieve the timely dissemination of information on
improved agrlcultural practices (impact points). Contact farmers, comprising
about 5Z of all farmers, are the principal outreach mechanism and through
them, the system covers a wiA. range of farmrs. Desplto providlng a sound
administrative discipline to the extension service, experience has shown that
the T&V concept in Bangladesh has failed to dovelop fully a communications
linkage with the farming communlty.  Due to weak techAical messages and sk11
limitations of BS, the service has had difficulty in maintaining sufficient
numbers of contact farmers. Similar problems with the T&V concept have been
identified in other countries of the region-0. Furthermore, as brought out
Project Performance Audit Report No 8808, July 1990
West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 690-IN)
Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 761-IN)
Kerala Agricultural Extenslon Project (Cr. 1028-IN)
Maharashtra Agricultural Ixtension Project (Cr. 1135-IN)
Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1137-IN)
National Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 855-IN)



by the 1989 termination report for a Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO)-
executed, United Nations Derelopment Programs (UNDP)-funded technical
assistance project which supported the two IDA-financed projects, it is
necessary to expand the outreach options of the extension service by. using
more demonstrations; working with formal and non-formal groups; and increasing
media campaigns.
1.14      Another weakness in the T&V systom as presently operated in
Bangladesh is that the messages are mainly generated centrally In Dhaka by the
National Technical Committee, and passed through the Regional Technical
Comitteos down to the District Technical Commitoes (MO).  As a result, ewve
messages which address issues relevant to local farmer are not adapted to
local needs. Furthermore, many issues of local concern aro not addressed by
these messages.  There Is also a gap of national importance In the  aesage
content, namely the absence of coverage of irrigated agriculture, a problem
stemming largely from a recently resolved inter-minLterial conflict over
responsibility for water management issues.  Inadequate output from the
research system has also contributed'to the weakness of technlcal messages.
1.15      Technical messages should be generated and/or adapted by MO to
address local needs. However, it fails to moet this responsibility because
of:  (a) inadequate delegation from the National Technical Committee In Dhakat
(b) the composition of DTC which is not fully appropriatel and (c) the
inadequate skills of the Upazilla staff (most notably th? IS) who, as' a
result, fail to provide the relevant feedback on farmers' needs and problem.
1.16      Another factor which has reduced the efficacy of the public
extension services has b)een a chronic shortage in operating funds. IDA's
Public Expenditure Review'in 1989 estimated that in recent years about 95Z of
DAE's recurrent budget allocation was committed to salary and allowance
payments.
1.17      Outside of the public extension system a few Non-Governmental
Organizations (NGOs) are engaged in extension and have had some success,
especially with regard to special crops and with reaching women, the latter
particularly in connection with improving the efficiency of homestead
production. This experience will be of particular value to the homestead
production component of the project (para. 2.19).
Research
1.i8      In contrast to extension, agricultural research has been a priority
investment sector for both human and fiscal resources. About 1,600 scientists
are presently engaged in agricultural research, and UNDP's l99 Agriculture
Sector Survey noted that, over the last decade, there has been a considerable
increase in the number and quality of research staff. Research work covers
the full gamut of agritultural sub-disciplines and there ar, no significant



shortages of physical facilities or manpower. IDAV and USAID have been the
major donors, and COB has provided adequate recurrent funding.
1.19      Despite these investments, the progress in agricultural research is
unsatisfactory. BARC, created as an apex organLzation to achieve sector
coordination, has been unsuccessful. Research in agriculture is conducted by
several ministries, and MARC has no influence on resource allocation outside
NOA. Even within MOA the two large research institutes, D6AI and DIII, have
such well 3ntrenched programs that BARC has almost no power to influence them.
In addition, BARC' organizational structure has proved to be functionally
unproductive. The Member Directors of the Council who represent the various
sub-sectors have continually failed to build a rapport with the institutes and
research agencies. BARC has been preoccupied with building its own large
technical and administrative empire, and has become unwieldy and
counterproductive.
1.20      After the dramqtic early successes of the green revolution,
research output has been disappointing.  There has also been a negative
approach towards utilizing commercial crop varieties and recommending
production technology generated in other countries with similar agro-
ecological conditions   The gap between what farmers want and what research
provides is illustrated in the uptake of high yielding varieties (gYVs).
About 902 of the officially released NYVe are not used by farmers at all, and
farmer selected varieties dominate present production. The latter are thought
to originate from illegally iported'material,_ which obviously provide more
acceptable coubinations of maturity, length, response t; fortilizer,
com _rcial appeal etc. The rules and regulations governing the lntroduction
of proven crop varieties from other countries are outdated and, combined with
an unofficial'reluctance to let in any foreign varieties, now pose a serious
constraint.
1.21      There is one brighter spot in the research scene. Through the
farming systems research program, supported by the Extension and Research II
Project (Cr.. 1215-BD), successful technology packages for the improvement of
homestead agriculture have been developed, tested and extended on a sufficient
scale to prove their worth. This knowledge and experience will provide the.
essential technical underpinning for the homestead production component.
1.22      To help the Government overcome its difficulties in research
coordination and resource use, IDA, together with the International Service
for National Agricultural Research (ISMAR), has undertaken a detailed.research
review. This work, which takes into account experience with donor supported
projects, hbs recommended reforms to the system and set'guidelines for change
in the management of research structure and for futuro Bank assistance in the
sector. Such assistance is being considered for Y94.
I    Through the Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 828-BD) and the ongoing
Agricultural Research II Project (Cr. 1455-BD).



-7-
Input SUDnO1
1.23      Recently, signLficant changes have taken place in the way that
several major inputs are made available to farmers. The most successful of
these changes has been the liberalizatLon of fertilizer trading. Previously,
the monopoly rights to importation and wholesale and retail distributLon were
held by  ADC.  In 1987, MA, through a major policy shift, began to privatise
fertilizer dLstrLbution and sale, and today this process is almost complete.
Fertilizer is now much more vLdely distributed, more readily available at the
critical applicatLon times, and is usually cheaper. Similarly, the
prLvatizatLon of the supply of most minor lrrlgation equipment - deep
tubevells (DTW) are the only remaining public monopoly and steps are being
taken to introduce the prlvate sector here also - has led to lower prLces and
rapid expansion in their use (para. 1.4).
1.24      Less. success has been achLeved with seeds and credit. WLth the
exception of vegetable and some jute seeds sold by prlvate dealers, BADC is
the sole commercial supplier of seed in the country. BDC operates an
extensive network of foundation seed farms and contract-grower zones for
cortified seed and saed processing facilitLes. This network generally
produces high quality seed, and the;. is a capacity to expand output.
However, seed is sold below cost; creating a substantial burden on 3ADC's
budget and inhibiting the entry of the private .sector into the trade.
1.25      BADC's seed operatLons are constrained in two major ways.  First,
it operates solely wLth varieties produced in the publlc research system and,
as noted earlier, these are inadequate (para. 1.20). Furthermore, the quality
of the breeder seed which Is supplied by the public research institutes is
poor, causing additional expenses down the seed production chain. Second,
there is a total absence of comercialis in the operations.  Thls is
manifested in two ways:  (a) the quantitles to be produced of each seed
varLety are-determined bureaucratlcailly, with influence from the research and
extenslon fraternities but little or none from the market; and (b) seed is
sold through BADC seed stores, without any attempt at comAercLal marketing.
This result in demand for some varietLes cannot be met, a surplus of others,
and, worst of all, plant breeders are shLelded from a market assessment of
thelr output.
1.26      The private sector is active mainly in the Importation and sale of
vegetable seeds, such imports being freely allowed.- Most traders also sell
seed of local vegetable varieties, sad some sell jute seed. A number of
traders, through contract growers, arrange for the productlon of ocme or all
the local vegetable and jute seed thy sell. Bowever, these operations are
impeded by a lack of access to supplies of breoder seod from the public
institutes. They are also constrained from expanding their operations by
BADC's practlce of selling below cost, and by poor access to credit and an
absence of technical ezpertise.
1.27      Poor lending and recovery discLpline, compounded by natural
dLsasters, have weakened the formal rural credLt structure. PolLcy and
instltutional reforms supported under IDA's Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
and the proposed Agrlcultural and Rural Credit Project will, however,



-8-
strengthen the institutions and improve the supply of credit to the
agricultural sector on a sustainable basls.
Agro-business
1.28      In the last decade there has been little development of new export-
oriented ag:o-business, with the exception of frozen shrimp. The main export
commodity, jute, has come under increasing pressure from oil-based synthetics,
and it appears unlikely that it will recover its lost markets. At the same
time the demand for increased foodgrains has pushed crop production further
towards a rice mono-culture. Adverse climatic conditions have limited
production increases to barely meeting the needs of the increased population.
Recently, however, a combination of better growing conditions and the effects
of policy reforms (para. 1.23) have created an environment for the farming
community not only to maintain foodgrain production at self-sufficiency
levels, but also to develop alternative production options, some of which have
export potential.
1.29      In place are some export incentives for a range of established
unprocessed agricultural commodities, including concessional interest rates
for export credit. and working capital, tax and duty rebates, and advantageous
freight rates on the national carriers. However, little has been done to
identify new export agro-businesses in other areas where Bangladesh might have
a comparative advantage, or put in place market analysis and development
skills. The recent good performance in the foodgrain subsector prompted
inclusion in the preparation effort for this project a review of agro-bus$ness
opportunities. This review concluded that production and export market
opportunities exist for horticultural-products. However, it also concluded
that, in the short and medium-term, the commercial sector is unlikely to
develop the information or skills to exploit these opportunities and that, if
the country is to broaden its export base, GOB initiative will be required.
In particular it will be essential to establish institutional arrangewmnts
which will enable a forceful and commercial approach to be taken in the
development of promising export lines.
C.    IDA's hricultural Sector Develogmeat Strat.Rr
Past Lendina Overatione
1.30      IDA's lending to Bangladesh has emphasized agriculture, in
recognition of the country's needs and priorities. Particular emphasis has
been placed on strengthening agricultural services, developing water resources
and supporting complementary infrastructure development in sectors such as
power and transport. Consistent with GOB's priorities, Increased production
of foodgrains has been the primary target of IDA's lending in agriculture.
On-going IDA-supported projects in the sector includes
Extension and Research II             (Cr. 1215-BD)
Deep Tubewells TI                     (Cr. 1287-BD)
Rural Development II                  (Cr. 1384-BD)
Agricultural Research II              (Cr. 1455-BD)



- 9
Bangladesh Water Development
Board Small Scheme.                 (Cr. 1467-BD)
Flood Control and Drainage III & IV  (Crs. 1591 & 1784-BD)
Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage
and Irrigation II                   (Cr. 1870-BD)
Flood Rehabilitation III              (Cr. 2048-3D).
Experience with past and on-going projects vith specific relevance to this
project (Cr3. 729-3D, 828-BD, 1215-3D, and 1455-3D) has been outlined above
(paras. 1.11 *t seq and 1.18 et seq). In addition there are generic problems
which affect most projects in the portfolio. These are: shortage of
counterpart funds, procurement delays, and delays In approving changes to
Project Proforma necessitated by changing circumstances. These generic
problems, which are the subject of the ongoing policy dialog between GOB, IDA
and other members of the Aid Consortium, have also been taken into account in
project design.
Strategy and Rationale for Further IDA Inwolvement
1.31      Strategy. Strengthening support servlces is part' of IDA's overall
strategy to develop the country's agricultural potential. This strategy is
mainly based on accelerated development of minor irrigation resources
(especially groundwater) almed at substantially completing groundwater
development by the turn of the century. It comprises interrelated activities
in the area of sector policies, especially in liberalization and deregulation
of public interests in minor irrigation, input supply, credit and support
services. The full success of each of these activities depends on
satisfactory performance of parallel activities. Simultaneous specific
activities planned comprise a joint ADB/IDA action program on sector policies.
1.32      Rationale.  The Agricultural Support' Services Project will be part
of a matrix of proposed IDA-assisted operations to continue support for the
sector. With its substantial past and ongoing involvement in the agriculture
sector generally, and ln particular with the effort to improve Bangladesh's
support services, IDA has a significant comparative advantage to bring to this
effort. IDA's involvement will also help GOB's policy makers counter internal
resistance to further liberalization in services and reductions in public
sector staff. Together with ADB, IDA would address the overall policy
environment for agricultural development through: (a) the proposed Shallow
Tubewell & Low Lift Pump Irrigation Project (FY91); (b) the proposed
Agricultural and Rural Credit Project (FY91), and the proposed National Minor
Irrigation Development Project (FY91). Further project assistance is planned
for agricultural research (FY94) following a joint COB/donor review of the
research system.



- 10 -
TI. TIN P1OJ3Ot
A. Project Doeimn CMIA.iratloMS
201       Productivity gains will increasingly become the engine of
agricultural and economic-growth (para. 1.6).  ueb gains will not be achleved
without continuing improve_ents in technology genoration and transfer, and
input supply i.e. agricultural support services. Drawing upon experleco
within Bangladesh and other countries in the Asia Region, IDA has been active
in assisting with the development of a full range of agricultural support
services, resulting in projects on eztension, agricultural training, research,
and the seed industry. Although these projects have had mixed success, they
have deonstrated that the task of improving such support sorvices must be
treated as a long-term program. The overall lessons learned from these past
investments have been thst further improvement in farmr service* will depend
on: (a) focusing activities and decision makig as closely as possible to the
final userst (b) achieving an in-depth technical and management skill bases
and (c) involving a full range of private and public sector outreach options.
GOB's policy Initiative to broaden the development responsibility for
agriculture by Involving private sector services requires that future project
assistance must be sufficiently flexible and inovative to exploit fully this
previously untapped resource. Through reformulation of the on-going extension
project (Cr. 1215-3D) Improverments have been made to the tecbnology transfer
process by expanding outreach mechanienm to include on-farm deonstrations,
field days and media campaigns. Much more remain to be done.
2.2       Building on the foundation-laid by the earlier extension, training
and seed projects, project design has embodLed the following specific lessonst
(a) extension staff must be reduced to an appropriate number with greater
skills, and particular attention paid to the skills needed to Improve
irrigated agriculture: (b) extension staff must access all available outreach
mechanisms for comunicating with farmers: (c) training programo for extension
staff must be jractically designed to reflect actual work needs, and the
programs must be managed by professional trainers: (d) sigLficant
opportunities exist to reach women through technology packages aimd at
improving homestead production; this will however necessitate sgLnificant
staff trainings (e) DTCs must be reconstituted to include EGOs and comercial
business specialists and local leaders, and DTCc must be given the full
responsibility for addressing the local production constraints: and
(f) constraints impeding private sector expansion and improved public sector
efficiency in the seed trade must be removed.
2.3       The need to Increase crop yields is paramount if agricultural
production is to keep pace with growing requiremnts and expand its
contribution to foreign exchange earnings (para. 1.8). Regarding the
availability of technology to achieve significant yield lncreases, such
existing information remains to be exploited but needs to be repackaged and
correctly targeted by the extension service. Leading farmcer are alrady
achieving crop yields of four to five tims the national average (e.g., 5-6
tons/ha of aman rice, 8-10 tons/ha of boro rice and 6 tons/ha of wheat), and
this firmly underlines the scope for better use of existing technology.  The



- 11 -
improved availability of fertilizer, seeds, and irrigation equipment will also
allow proven technology from the fertilizer industry and countries with
similar agro-ecological conditions to make significant contributions to farmer
productivity in the foreseeable future.
2.4       The design of the horticultural export component is based on
adaptations to Bangladesh conditions of approaches which have proven
successful elsewhere. The aim of this component is to initiate, with GOB
support, the development of private sector businesses made up of small farmers
in joint ventures with foreign firms which have the technical and marketing
know-how. An autonomous Foundation is considered to be most suitable to
promote this component. The Foundation will be patterned on the Palli Karma
Shayak Foundation, which was recently established to promote poverty
alleviation activities, and which has already demonstrated its effectiveness.
The Foundation will also be similar to an agency in Chile, which has
effectively promoted private agro-business ventures for over 20 years. The
proposed inclusion of an export financing component reflects the high risk in
export marketing of perishable crops especially at this early stage of
development of such crops. The component has been designed with a view to
encouraging the involvement of commercial banks until they are willing to take
full responsibility for export financing.
2.5       The project fits into both the Government's and IDA's agricultural
development strategy as an essential complement to the main thrust of minor
irrigation development.
S. Proiect Oblectives and Description
Obiectives
2.6       The primary project objective will be to increase agricultural
production, especially in foodgrains, and initiate a diversification process
aimed at the introduction of high value export crops. To this end the project
will support an institutional reform process aimed at: (a) making technology
transfer more responsive to farmer needs and improving outreach capabilities
so that all sections of the rural community, including women, have access to
improved technology; (b) upgrading extension training; (c) increasing the
availability to farmers of improved seeds by ensuring participation of private
seed companies in the supply of both food and cash crop seeds, and removing
restrictive seed regulations; (d) improving the cost-effectiveness of public
sector services through more efficient outreach services and reductions in
staff; and (e) promoting crop diversification and agro-business opportunities
to increase the production options for farming enterprises.
Proiect Description
2.7       The project, which is expected to be implemented over a seven year
period, has components to: (a) improve the cost-effectiveness of technology
transfer methods, especially those related to foodgrains, by iktensified and
broadened outreach techniques (i.e., on-farm demonstrations and field days,
media campaigns, special Upazilla initiatives in technology developmnt and



- 12 -
transfer with matching funds, and transport and equipment), total base cost
US$16.0 million; (b) upgrade training for all DAB staff cadres, particularly
in irrigated agriculture (i.e., local and foreign training, post graduate
facilities, transport and equipment), US$12.0 milliont (c) expand the breeder
seed operations of the main research institutes, and introduce regulatory
reforms to improve seed industry efficiency, US$2.2 million; (d) mount a
special technology transfer program aimed at women, focussing particularly on
homestead production, US$4.3 million ; and (e) develop small farmer
horticultural export enterprises, US$10.1 million. US$5.1 million in
technical assistance is provided to support the technology transfer, training,
seed industry and homestead production components, and to examine
environmental issues. The project will have national coverage.
C. Proiect Components
Technolosm Transfer
2.8       General.  The project will provide US$16 million (base cost) to
support a broader approach to extension outreach designed to improve farmer
responsiveness, increase coverage within the rural community, and nationally
address the requiremnts of the rapidly expanding irrigated agriculture
sector. Emphasis has been placed on improving the cost-effectiveness of
extension by replacing a significant number of staff positions with
alternative outreach techniques, and upgrading the working environment and
mobility of the remaining field officers. It is envisaged that staff
reductions would involve at least 450 middle level professional staff and
about 2,500 BS using normal retirement and a hiring freeze. In addition GOB
will explore the possibility of accelerating staff reductions through the use
of inducements for early retirement. GOB has agreed that a program
satisfactory to IDA for improving the effectiveness of the extension staff,
including staff reductions, will be furnished to IDA not later than December
31, 1991 (para. 6.1(a)).
2.9       On-farm Demonstrations.  The project will provide for about 36,000
annual on-farm demonstrations. Each district would carry out about 600
demonstrations, and full responsibility for their design and physical
distribution would rest at district level. While national topics would be
addressed, the primary focus would be on local production issues.
Identification of the relevant local issues would be made through the existing
technical and political union/block-Upazilla-district consultative processes,
and included in a work program by DTC. Through DTC the Subject Hatter
Specialists and the field level research personnel would design the
demonstrations and decide on their locations.
2.10      Field Days and Extension Meetings. To extend further extension
services, the project will provide funds to hold farmer field days and
meetings regularly at all administrative levels within each district. Funding
will allow for holding a monthly field day at each block, Upatilla and
district. At the Upazilla level, UAO would establish a schedule of regular
contacts with NGO, commercial farm input suppliers and other formal/informal
groups with agricultural linkages. Similarly, the Deputy Directors (DD) of



- 13 -
Field Services in the districts would hold regular meetings with NGOs and the
private sector, and establish procedures to encourage a two-way flow of
extension information.
2.11      Media CamPaigns and Extension Pamphlets.  Funds would be provided
for media campaigns and production of basic extension pamphlets to further the
personal contact between extension workers and farmers, and as a publicity
tool for field demonstrations. The media campaigns would be jointly prepared
by the Field Services Division and the Agricultural Information Services Unit
(AIS) and include radio, television and newspaper coverage. AIS would also
assist in the design of extension pamphlets for use at farmer level and for
distribution to NGOs and commercial farm input suppliers. Pamphlets would
carry relevant national and local technical messages and, where possible,
would be printed by local firms in the districts.
2.12      Upazilla Special Initiative Funds.  Currently each Upazilla is
required to spend 15-251 of its development assistance from central government
on agriculture. In practice, however, almost none of these funds are spent on
extension. As an incentive to use these and other locally mobilized revenues
on technology transfer activities, matching funds would be provided at a 3 to
1 ratio to support independent initiatives generated by the Upazilla Parishad.
There would be an annual limit of Tk 100,000 for each Upasilla and it is
expected that about 15X of the Upazillas would participate in any given year.
The responsibility for promoting and monitoring these lnitiatives would rest
with UAO. Proposals would be reviewed by DTC, and if approved, funding would
be made available from the district extension budget. Funds would be utilized
to encourage local production activities and address associated constraints
through contract adaptive research work, additional on-farm demonstrations,
field days and promotional campaigns.
2.13      Extension Service Facilities.  To further promote the personal
farmer-extension worker interaction at the grass-roots level, funding would be
provided for the construction of simple buildings at union level (two in each
district). These would serve as an office for the BS, a location for
disseminating extension information and as a meeting place for farmers. The
above building program is intended to demonstrate to Unions/Upazillas the
basic infrastructure needed for technology transfer with the ultimate
objective of local government entities providing such a resource. Transport
would be provided to increase field staff mobility (about 1,400 motorcycles
and 10,000 bicycles) and extension equipment (TVs, VCRs, public address
systems, etc.) to improve outreach impact. Motorcycles and bicycles would be
sold to extension staff under hire-purchase agreements and the project would
provide, through a unit rate (Tk per km), for their operational and
maintenance costs. These arrangements have in the past proved to be
satisfactory. Films on agricultural topics would be produced on contract by
the private sector, and districts and Upasillas would be equipped to show
these demonstration and training films throughout their areas. A basic
battery-operated Public Address System would be provided to each BS for use at
field days and farmer meetings.



- 14 -
Training
2.14      General.  The project will provide US$12.0 million (base cost) for
a range of training investments, including renovation of buildings.
improvements to water supplies, internal roads and other facilities at the ten
Agricultural Training Institutes (ATIs). The Central Extension Resources
Development Institute (CERDI) would also be rehabilitated. Housing would be
provided for core staff and visiting consultants. Worn-out and unserviceable
laboratory, teaching and kitchen equipment at the ATIs and CERDI would be
replaced together with farm equipment specifically used for teaching
activities. The ATIs and CERDI would be provided with TVs and VCRs and, in
liaison with extension staff, would utilize topical films on water management,
horticulture, post-harvest technology, etc., (para. 2.11). In-service and
upgrading training would be reoriented to emphasize field work and involve
visits to research stations, demonstration sites, farmer communities and
irrigation activities. Special attention would be given to training of all
DAE staff to alter their gender outlook so that they could recognize and use
the opportunities for bringing women into the mainstream of agricultural
activities. To improve the mobility of trainers and trainees, each ATI would
be provided with a 30 seater minibus, a 4WD vehicle and two motorcycles. For
CERDI, the project would provide two 30 seater minibuses and three 4WD
vehicles. Funds would also be provided to finance the printing of training
materials, purchase of publications, and incremental operating costs including
stationery and supplies.
2.15      In-service TraininQ.  Funding for in-service training of middle and
professional level staff to improve their extension skills will be provided
under the project.  BS and Female Extension Coordinators would receive one
week per year of refresher training addressing skill gaps, particularly in
water management technology, new crop production programs, female extension
programs, and other specialized farmer information needs. Annual in-service
training for higher level professional staff would be provided at CERDI and
training centers at the research institutes, which collectively have a 200
person capacity. About 2,000 senior technical staff, 150 Training Instructors
and 100 DDs would be trained annually. Initial training for about 100 new
agricultural graduates joining DAE each year would be given at CERDI to
prepare these staff for their professional field level responsibilities.
2.16      Career Development Training.  A twelve month upgrading course would
be financed for BS who have previously undergone two year diploma training,
and who have shown the ability and motivation to warrant further training. It
is expected that 4,000-5,000 BS would qualify for this training which would be
provided over a four year period. The course curricula would be developed
with project-funded technical assistance by June 30, 1992, and funding would
be provided to cover training allowances and instructional materials.
2.17      Farmer and Other Client Group Training.  A program would be funded
for one day non-residential training of about 200,000 people annually with the
project meeting travel, food, training material and trainer costs. To
determine the scope of this, a farmer training needs assessment would be
completed by consultants by March 31, 1992 together with a training action
plan. The latter would be included in the National Training Plan not later



- 15 -
than June 30, 1992. Agreewnt on the foregoing was reached with GOB at
negotiations (para. 6.1 (b)). Training sessions would take place at
demonstration sites, research sub-stations, multi-locational trial sites and
irrigation schemes.
Seed Industry DeveloDment
2.18      The project will provide US$2.2 million (base cost) to improve and
expand maintenance breeding and breeder seed multiplication at nine research
stations (BARI-5, BRRI-2, Bangladesh Jute Research Institute (BJRI)-2) to
cover the different climatic, edaphic and agronomic requirements of each crop.
Each station would be provided with agricultural equipment appropriate to seed
production and a seed processing and conditioned storage unit. The
conditioned storage would enable breeder seed to be stored in lots sufficient
to last 3-4 years, minimizing logistical and demand estimation problems. The
unit would also house seed testing facilities and a deep freeze cabinet which
would maintain the viability of nucleus seed stocks for up to 10 years. To
improve on-station mobility and to allow the institutes to effectively monitor
foundation seed production by BADC and private seed companies, each station
would be provided with a pick-up vehicle. From existing staff resources the
above stations would each be provided with the specialist staff needed to
ensure production of quality seed, namely, a breeder, a technical assistant
and two support staff.
Homestead Production
2.19      A major objective of the project will be to improve the quality of
outreach services and the availability of new technology to women Involved in
agriculture. Funding would be provided for retraining the existing 560 BS to
work as women program coordinators (WPC) in each Upazilla, and for training of
extension cadres to improve their sensitivity to the gender dimension. These
training programs and the subsequent work activities would be designed with
assistance from the project-funded extension management and training
specialists. WPCs would, through UAO, prepare an annual women's activity
schedule for field days, on-farm and homestead demonstrations and group
meetings with NGOs and other interested parties, and be responsible for its
execution. Each Upazilla would have a non-fungible funding allocation for the
above activities. WPCs would work with the BS to help them effectively reach
women farmers. Funding would be provided for WPC transport and operating
expenses. In addition, the project will ensure that the considerable volume
of existing adaptive research work on homestead agricultural activities is
translated into relevant technical messages, and that these are made available
to all districts and Upazillas. The funds for the foregoing activities is
included in the Training and Technology Transfer components. To complement the
effort to improve the quality and availability of the public estension service
for women the project would provide funds for the contracting of NGOs which
have had success in promoting intensive homestead production (base cost US$
4.3 million). This would be a major effort enable them to widen considerably
the scope of their activities and to reach many more women agriculturalists.



- 16 *
Apro-bus incs Develoament
2.20      The project will provide US$10.1 million (base cost) for a pilot
component to support the development of horticultural exports. The target
markets would be Europe and Japan, where consumption is expected to grow at
annual rates between 8-102 for the next decade. Bangladesh farmers'
production costs, especially labor, are highly competitive, and Sgronomically
a wide range of crops can be grown. Preliminary analysis has indicated that
local farmers can be competitive in exporting products such as snow peas,
french beans, grapes, melons, asparagus, strawberries, mangoes, and
carnations. None of these crops are new to the country, but the improved
varieties and production techniques necessary to capture a share of the export
market are not presently available in Bangladetsh. Projected exports would
account for less than 1S of the recipient markets, and sales would take place
between December and June, the peak off-season market period. Shipments would
initially use freight space on existing passenger flights from Dhaka airport,
which has cold storage facilities adequate to accommodate horticultural export
requirements for the project's pilot component. As production volumes grow,
the chartering of aircraft, together with expansion of cold storage at the
airport, will be considered together with the use of fast refrigerated sea
transport, which has proven to be viable for similar exports from Thailand.
2.21      To develop and promote horticultural exports GOB has reached
agreement in principle with IDA and USAID that it will establish a fully
autonomous Foundation. The Foundation's establishment and operating costs for
the first three years. including technical assistance, market intelligence.
leasing of offices, etc., would be financed from a USAID grant. Funding needs
for the subsequent years would be assessed during this period by GOB in
consultation with USAID. The Foundation would, with project funds, develop
three pilot schemes to demonstrate the viability of horticultural production
for export and encourage such production and export on a larger scale. For
each of these schemes the project would provide a small packing and storage
plant together with refrigerated transport and inputs for domonstrations.
The plants would be of a standard design which has a proven track record in
other developing countries. Also, they vould consist of movable components to
provide flexibility if a scheme at a particular location should prove to be
unsuccessful. In view of the difficulty in obtaining bank credit for the
production, processing and marketing of perishable export products, the
project would also provide short-term credit to cover these costs during the
initial years of each scheme until coAmercial banks had gained enough
confidence to provide the required credit.
Technical Assistance
2.22      The project will provide US$5.1 million (base cost) for technical
assistance. During negotiations an agreement was reached with GOB that
consultants with experience, qualifications, and terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA will be employed by December 1. 1991 (para. 6.1(c)). Key
staff to be provided would be as followst within the Field Services Division
of DAE, an extension management specialist (45 staff-months) would work under
the Director as head of a new operations unit (para. 3.2). Responsibilities
would include strategic planning and budgeting of outreach programs,



- 17 -
monitoringlevaluating the effectiveness of such programs and providing
guidance to field level Implementing staff. Also attached to the latter
support unit would be a water management specialLst (36 staff-months) whose
task, in conjunction with field level staff, would be to generate the
appropriate technical messages for irrigated agriculture. In addition, this
specialist would work with a training coordinator (45 staff-months) to ensure
all field staff recelved training in irrigated agriculture. Short-ter
consultants would carry out a baseline rurvey to establish the criteria and
indicators for extension impact evaluation. Short-team consultants would also
be provided for the on-going monitoring of environmental issues and extension
service Impact, development of detailed homestead production programs, and
specialist training activities. Further technical assistance required would
be assessed at the project's mld-term review (para. 3.19). To support policy
changes and assist the opening up of the seed industry to full private sector
participation, a Seed Industry Management Specialist (39 staff-months) would
be provided.
D. Envirometal Asnects
2.23      An environmental assessment commissioned by the United Kingdom's
Overseas Development Administration (ODA) and IDA was carried out for this and
the other three agricultural development projects to be supported by IDA
(para. 1.32) V. The recommendations of that assessment were used in the
design of the environmental features of this project. The primary project
thrust will be to raise the use efficiency of available natural and human
resources, and support sustainable farming systems that are more productive
and more profitable. It is assumed that the established trend towards greater
use of irrigation and fertilizer will continue. While the untapped potential
of both deep and shallow aquifers is still considerable, better use of the
water resources will become increasingly important and the project will
promote, through its technology transfer activities, a series of actions that
will raise agricultural productivity per unit of water. These will include
supplementary irrigation of the main rainfed crop, use of alternative
irrigated crops that have a lower water demand than paddy and better general
water management techniques involving improved reticulation systems.
Fertilizer use per unit of cropped area in Bangladesh remains one of the
lowest in Asia, and water pollution from this source is not expected to pose
an environmental threat for some time to come. Even so, much of the
fertilizer used is either incorrectly applied, or fails to produce the
expected yield increases because of micro-nutrient deficiencies. To overcome
these problems the project will, through its on-farm demonstration program and
field days, promote better timing of fertilizer applications and supplementgry
use of elements such as zinc and sulfur. Similarly, the use of green manure
crops would be encouraged. Although pesticide use is presently low, the
inadequate knowledge of rural farm input retailers often leads to incorrect
advice on product use and overly heavy application rates. The project will
V    An Environmental Assessment of Four Agriculture Projects in Bangladesh
(December 1990), a report prepared for the World Bank by Environmental'
Resources Limited (ERL).



- is -
address this problem b. advising input suppliers on the optimal use of
pesticides, directly distributing pamphlets to farmers on the subject, and
promoting integrated pest management techniques that utillze a rangp of
control measures. Project funded training actlvitIes would cover sustainable
production luues for all staff cadres in DAB and slmLlar messages would be
made available through the farmer and client group training progrm. Several
Subject Matter Speclalists would receive specific overseas training in
environmental planning and protection. The policy changes supported under the
project's seed component would assist the introduction of a vIder range of
crops and more efficient varieties, whLch in turn would help farmers make
better use of their resources. Consultants would be conmissioned to assess
the environmental effects of agricultural development and to recomend new
approaches and/or remedial actions to the relevant public and private sector
entities. Subsequently, a consolidated environmental impact assessment report
would be prepared for the project's mid-term review (para. 3.19).
B. Status of Prenaration and Iinlenmtation Schedule
2.24      Preparation. The rationale and proposals for the staffing changes
in DAE's Field Services Division, the project's training program, the
regulatory changes in the seed industry, and environmental monitoring (based
on consultants' environmental assessment - see para. 2.23) were developed with
MOA. To initiate action on these matters, consultants will be recruited by
the ODA. Initial key people are expected to in place by October 1991. Terms
of reference for the consultants have been prepared (Annex 2). The Articles
and Memorandum of Association for the Foundation have been prepared. GOB has
included the project in its FY92 Annual Development Program (ADP), and GOB
approval of the Proiect Proforma will be a condition of effectiveness for the
IDA Credit (para. 6.2(a)).
2.25      Implementation.  The implementation period will be seven years
(FY92-98). With the exception of some training activities and on-farm
demonstrations, no major expenditures have been scheduled in the project's
first year. In this period, tenders would be floated for civil works and
other procurement, with the process to be completed by June 30, 1992. New
civil works at CERDI and the research institutes would be carrled out in the
second, third and fourth project years (PY) while rehabliltation of the ATIs
would be completed by PY3. Procurement of transport for all project entities
would be affected in PY2 with equipment and furniture acquisition after
completion of the respective civil works program. Technology transfer
activities (demonstrations, field days, media campaigns, publications and
Upazilla programs) would be implemented in each project year, as would the
training programs. Technical assistance would be recruited at project start-
up and would be expected to be operational not later than December 1991.
F. Project Costs
2.26      Total project costs are estimated at Tk 2.4 billion
(US$59.4 million), with a foreign exchange component of US$19.9 million or 341
of total costs (Table 2.1). The estimates for new civil works and



- 19 -
rehabilLtation works are based on actual 1990 contract prices awarded by the
Project Implementation Wing (PIW) of HOA. stimates of quantities are taken
from similar on-going works supported under Credit 1215-BD. Similarly, the
estimates for transport, equipment and local services are based on actual 1990
cost Incurred under on-going projects.
L Pwoos r
Tab mllbn             UJC mllln               % TOW
Law    Pcre   ToWl      Lal    Fhln ToWal    6hsp COo
A. Tedtmb Ttbfr        460.0   10.5   6.0      12.3     8.7  1C.0     a       32
B. Trini              880.3   60.4   46.7      9.      2.4   12.0    20       24
C. Ssd D rVOPM_        80.0    8.2   60.2      1.4      0.8   2.2    38        4
D. Homaubed Prduolbn   74.9   51.1   156.0     2.1     2.2   4.8    51        10
E Ahob*wlha D1 1lpmn    168.0  201.1  380.1    4.      6.   10.1    64        20
5 T.hnlcai AM1tno      34      cor!  1Sf        td      2J    IA      it      1
TOTAL AOIENE COSTS   1,182.4  680.0  1,817.4  82.4    17.3   40.7    5     100
Pyltol CWntln           9.0    2.2   11.2      0.2    0.1   0.3       20       1
P1100 Ctldng          400.9   i        07       I9      la    0.4 _           19
'TOTAL COSTS        1001.S  796.0  2,90.3    893     19.9  09.      34    119
2.27      Project costs ipclude about US$5.4 million in taxes and duties.
Physical contingencies are estimated at 102 of the base cost of all civil
works. Price contingencies are estimated on the basis of the expected annual
rates of local and foreign inflation as follows: local price contingencies at
82 for FY92, 7X for FY93 and at 6X thereafter, and foreign price contingencies
at 3.6Z per annum for the project period.
G.  Prolect FinanRci
2.28      The project will be co-financed by IDA, ODA and GOB.  The IDA
Credit of SDR 24.4 million (US$35.0 million equivalent) would cover about 60X
of the total project cost. IDA will finance the cost of new and rehabilitated
civil works, in-service and farmer/client group training and training
equipment, equipment and credit for the horticultural export component, some
of the equipment for the seed component, and a declining portion of
incremental local services costs involving extension outreach activities, and
the project related operations and maintenance costs. An ODA grant of
US$14.7 million equivalent would cover about 25 of project cost. ODA will
finance the technical assistance, the balances of the training and seed
equipment costs, and the costs of contracting the NGOs for the homestead
production component. Effectiveness of the co-financing agreement between GOB
and ODA will be a condition of effectiveness for the IDA Credit (para.
6.2(b)). GOB will contribute an amount equivalent to US$9.7 million. These
funds will be made available through annual budget appropriations in



- 20 -
conformance with the project implementation schedule. Table 2.2 summarises
the project financing plan by component.
I" -AFVC  PLAN
B 01S~~f  Tobi
A. TsahaogW TuI                   12.7           6.5    19.5
EL hawe                            9.3    3.6    1.7    14.6
C. Seed DOvdI_wd                   1.1    0.7    0.0     2.
0. HcWnd Produdon                  -      5.0            6.0
E. A*bAhm DhOpM                   11.9    e      -       11.0
F. Technicd Ae   n5.4   0.4                              5.0
ToW Coa              S5o    141    0.       Wa
2.29      IDA funds for the agro-business component will be channeled by GOB
to the Foundation, which will be responsible for implementing this component.
These funds will be provided partly in the form of a grant and partly as a
loan. Funds required for inputs for demonstrations, and for investments in
plant and equipment would be passed on as a grant to finance the initial
investment costs in three pilot schemes. After the funds have been recovered
(para. 3.17), they would be used to support similar investments in additional
schemes. Credit required by participating farmers for production, processing
and export marketing to cover inputs, packaging materials, freight charges,
handling costs, fees, etc., would be onlent to the foundation under a
revolving fund facility, administered by Bangladehb Bank, on which the
Foundation could draw as and when required. This 'tiility would be
replenished from deductions from farmers' export taceipts. The onlending of
IDA funds under this arrangement would be expected to gradually increase as
exports expand and withdrawals under the facility exteed replenishment. The
facility would be discontinued when the viability of the export activities had
been proven and the commercial banks had gained the necessary confidence to
provide adequate consignment credit for horticultuwtq exports by, at latest,
the end of June 1997. To encourage banks to provido euch credit, and help
them gain experience in horticu!tural export financin, the Foundation will,
where appropriate, deposit the GOB loan funds in an iterest bearing deposit
or other account, which will serve as security for t6 ,vepayment of the banks'
credit. The Foundation's effectiveness in securing bank credit for its
schemes, and the need for continued lending by GOB, would be reviewed annually



- 21 -
by IDA and GOB. In cases where the Foundation provides the credit, it would
charge the "shadow market rate"> for agricultural lending to the farmers who
participate in its schemes (para. 3.17). The interest rate charged by GOB
would be 7Z lower, which would provide an adequate margin to the Foundation.
This arrangement would assist in demonstrating the viability of horticultural
production for export, while providing time to the banking sector to gain the
required confidence and experience. Establishment of the Foundation and
execution of a subsidiary agreement between GOB and the Foundation.
satisfactory to IDA, will be a condition of IDA disbursement against
expenditures incurred under the proiect's agro-business component (para.
6.3(a)). The funds provided by USAID under a separate project (para. 2.21)
covering the establishment and operating cost of the Foundation will be
provided from GOB to the Foundation as a grant. Signing of a financing
agreement between GOB and USAID for that project will also be a condition of
disbursement (para. 6.3(b)).
H. Procurement
2.30      The civil works financed under the project would not be attractive
to international bidders. The works are relatively small, labor-intensive and
geographically dispersed in areas with limited access. These works would,
therefore, be carried out under contracts let through local competitive
bidding procedures (LCB) satisfactory to IDA. The first three contracts
awarded under LCB would be subject to prior review by IDA to ensure that the
quality of LCB procedures has been maintained. International competitive
bidding (ICB) will be used for procurement of most vehicles, transport and
other equipment. ICB tender documents and contracts would also be subject to
prior review by IDA. Procurement of materials and services under the
project's credit component for horticultural production and exports
(para. 2.21) would be carried out by the Foundation using LCB procedures
acceptable to IDA, until final borrowers have gained sufficient experience to
procure on their own. Subsequently, procurement would be in accecrdance with
the final borrowers' normal commercial procedures with the Foundation ensuring
that borrowers carry out procurement with due regard to efficiency and
economy. For additional goods and services supplied under the project,
procurement will be as followss (a) technical assistance specialists and
services would, in consultation with IDA and GOB, be recruited by ODAM (b)
foreign training for extension and seed industry staff would be arranged by
ODA in consultation with GOB and IDA; and (c) to facilitate procurement of
small items, and items required urgently, such items not exceeding US$10,000
each and US$50,000 in aggregate vould be procured through prudent shopping
procedures.
V    The financial sector reforms agreed upon by IDA and GOB under the
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2152-BD) specify that the
scheduled banks charge interest at 'shadow market rates" determined
under a methodology agreed with IDA. The rates are established on the
basis of the banks' cost of funds, administrative costs, loan loss
provisions and a profit margin.



- 22 -
Table 2.3.  METHODS OF PROCURDH?
(US$ million)
ICB           LCB           OTHER            TOTAL
A. Civil Works                                  4.2                           4.2
(3.5)                         (3.5)
B. Local Services                                             10.5           10.5
(6.2)          (6.2)
C. Foreign Services                                            5.4            5.4
D. Local Training                                              5.8            5.8
(4.0)          (4.0)
E. Foreign Training                                            2.4            2.4
F. Equipnent, Materials          8.4                           5.9           14.3
and Vehicles               (6.3)                         (1.2)          (7.5)
G. O&M Costs                                                   6.6            6.6
(3.6)          (3.6)
H. Horticultural Export                         6.0            4.2           10.2
Credit                                    (6.0)          (4.2)         (10.2)
TOTAL                     8.4           10.2           40.8           59.4
(6.3)         (9.5)         (19.2)         (35.0)
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
I. Disbursements
2.31      Disbursements under the IDA Credit (Annex 5) will covers
(a) 902 of expenditures for civil works, including construction materials,
architects fees and supervision costs;
(b) 1002 of the foreign expenditure for directly imported materials,
vehicles and equipment; 1002 of the ex-factory price of materials and
equipment manufactured in Bangladesh, and 702 of local expenditures
for other items procured locally;
(c) 100Z of expenditures for local training;
(d) 852 of the local services expenditure related to technology transfer
until FY94, 702 of these expenditures in PY95 and FY96, and 352
thereafter;
(e) 85? of the incremental operation and maintenance costs until FY94, 702
in FY95 and FY96 and 352 thereafter;
(f) 10OZ of horticultural export credit.



- 23 -
2.32      Full documentation will be sent to IDA in support of withdrawal
applications for expenditures on contracts-on goods and services in excess of
US$10,000 or equivalent for items (a), (b), (c) and (d). Withdrawal
applications for other expenditures below this threshold will be supported by
statements of expenditure (SOEs) certified by the Chief Accountants of the
executing agencies. The relevant documentation would be retained by the
agencies at their headquarters and would be available for review by IDA
representatives on request. This documentation also would be subject to audit.
2.33      Most of the project works would be carried out by a large number of
small contractors whose construction capability depends largely upon the speed
at which they receive progress payments. To facilitate payments, ensure the
timeliness and availability of funds, and reduce the number of withdrawal
applications submitted to IDA, GOB will open and thereafter maintain in
convertible Taka, in one or more commercial banks. special deposit accounts in
the names of DAE (Tk46.5 million), BARI (Tk5.4 million), BRRI (Tk2.7 million),
BJRI (Tk2.7 million), and the Foundation (Tk32.2 million). The total authorixed
allocation for these special accounts would be consistent with IDA guidelines
and implementation experience of similar projects. The special accounts will be
replenished through regular reimbursements, and will be used exclusively for
IDA's share of financing.
J. Accounts and Audit
2.34      DAE, P1W, BARI, BRRI, and BJRI have already demonstrated an ability to
maintain adequate records to identify physical progress and financial
transactions relating to a project. The accounts of these agencies are reviewed
by their internal audit staff and audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General
of Bangladesh. These agencies, together with the Foundation, would maintain
similar project accounts; individually identifiable accounts would also be kept
for all expenditures for wilch credit withdrawals are made based on SOEs
(para. 2.32). The GOB's Directorate of Audit presently audits all GOB's project
agencies and this arrangement is satisfactory to IDA. The Foundation would
appoint a private auditor acceptable to GOB and IDA. All project accounts would
be audited and separate audit opinions would be required for the accounts
covering statements of expenditure and withdrawals and for special accounts.
Audited accounts, together with auditors' opinions and comments, would be sent
to IDA within nine months of the close of each fiscal year.



- 24 -
III.  ORGANIATION AND HNAAGEMNT
A. General
3.1       MOA, through the Secretary, will have the overall responsibility for
project implementation. Individual components/activities will be implemented by
the following agenciess (a) Technology Transfer and Training, DAE and P1W;
(b) Seed Industry Development, MOA's Seed Wing, BARI, BRRI and BJRI;
(c) Homestead Production, DAEB and (d) Agro-industry Development, MOA through
the Foundation.
D. Technology Transfer
DAR Field Services Organization
3.2       DAE Headquarters.  To support the development of the extension program
and assist with the organizational changes to the service, an operations unit
will be established in the Office of the DFS at DAB headquarters. The
operations unit will be headed by an expatriate Extension Management Specialist
and will have two Subject Matter Specialists and support staff. The operations
unit would, through the DFS and the Director General DAB, be responsible for
planning and implementation of the project's extension and training components.
it would be assisted in these functions by an irrigation agronomist and short-
term specialist consultants.
3.3       Districts.   DTC will become the central discussion forum on local
agricultural issues and be fully responsible for the design of technical
messages. The responsibility of the National Technical Committee and the
Regional Technical Committees for this activity (para. 1.14) would be
discontinued. DTC composition will be broadened to bring together all parties
involved in agricultural development. In addition to DAB, research, and BADC
staff, active involvement in DTC work would be sought from local NGOs,
commercial farm input suppliers, farmer cooperatives and rural banks. Outreach
staff from the Forestry, Livestock and Fisheries Departments would also be
invited to contribute. Management of DTC would remain the responsibility of the
DD of DAE's Field Services Division, but its operations would be conducted
through working gr,- ps.  The development of DTC activities would be assisted by
DFS and short-teL_. consultants.  Durinx negotiations aRreement was reached with
GOB that it would, by October 31, 1991, take all actions required to establish
the autonomous role and the broader structure of the DTCs (Pxra. 6.1(d)). The
existing finance units in DAE's District Offices would be responsible for
disbursing to UAOs and the Upazilla parishads all project funds related to
technology transfer. Accounting records for reimbursement of operating funds
would be updated on a quarterly basis.
3.4       Upazillas.  UAO would encourage the Upazilla Parishad to establish an
agricultural working committee under the Upazilla Chairman. This committee,
consisting of Parishad members and UAO, could co-opt representatives of other
agricultural interest groups to assist in determining local development
priorities and constraints. Through UAO there would be a two-way flow of
information between the district and the Upazilla, and this interaction would
guide the focus of technology transfer activities. Every Upazilla with an
agricultural base would have allocated to it annually funds for about 100 on-



- 25 -
farm demonstrations mnd 300 farmer field days. These funds would be managed by
UAO and would not be fungible.
3.5       The project funds for special Upazilla initiatives would be made
available through DAE's district offices (para. 2.12). UAO would develop these
initiatives. The longer-term objective would be to encourage a shift downstream
of the financial responsibility for technology transfer from central government
to local government bodies. DTC would decide on the applications for special
initiative funds, and thereafter UAO would have full responsibility for
monitoring and reporting on the performance of the programs.
3.6       With the progressive reduction in field level staff, the present BSs
farmer ratio of 1 to 1,000 would expand over the project period to 1 to about
2,000 farmers. The individual contact farmer mechanism for technology transfer
would be discontinued and replaced with group contacts, on-farm demonstrations,
field days, etc. (paras. 2.9-2.11 and Annex 1).
C. Trainian
3.7       Overall responsibility for project training activities would lie with
DAE's TD and its existing institutions, CERDI, and the ATIs. For civil works,
procurement and production of training manuals the TD would be assisted by P1W
staff. Technical specialists would be provided to support the TD's management
unit. All civil works and procurement activities would be managed by PIW, which
has considerable experience and a good achievement record in MOA's previous
agricultural support se-vices projects.
D. Seed Industry Develoyment
3.8       Seed Wing. During negotiations an agreement was reached with GOB that
a Seed Wing would be established in the MOA by October 31, 1991 (para. 6.1(e)).
The project funded Seed Industry Management Specialist would provide the Seed
Wing with the technical expertise to develop and implement GOB's proposed
reforms in the seed industry. Within the institutional setting outlined below,
the Seed Wing would affect the required changes in the organization and
management of the industry. A parallel seed project funded by USAID would
directly address problems with BADC's seed operations and the issue of subsidies
on seed sales from the public sector. During negotiations an agreement was
reached with GOB that BADC would, by June 30, 1992, restrict the marketing of
its seeds to wholesaling to private dealers (para. 6.1(f)).
3.9       National Seed Board lNSB).  NSB would be teconstituted to include the
full participation of the private seed sector. The following present members of
the Board would remain: Secretary of Agriculture (Chairman), Director Generals
of BARC, BRRI, BJRI, DAB, Chairman BADC, General Manager (Seeds) BADC, Director
Plant Protection (DAE), and Dean of Bangladesh Agricultural University. The
Director of the Seed Certification Agency would also remain on the Board but
would be replaced as its Secretary by the Joint Secretary (Seed Wing). Three
members from the private sector representing their Seed Association and contract
growers would replace representatives from the Tobacco and Cotton Boards and the
Sugarcane Research Institute. NSB's principle role would be to set in motion a
series of industry policies that would ensure farmers' access to a complete and
competitive range of seeds representing the best available local and foreign



- 26 -
technology. NSB would set new seed standards, update seed data bases and as a
result of interaction with the farming community and agricultural support
services, set and monitor seed production targets.
3.10      Seed Imports.  To ensure that the Bangladesh farmer has access to the
widest possible range of genetically superior material, research institutes and
public and private sector seed companies would be entitled to import adequate
quantities of seed for use in research and testing. The imported material would
be subjected to normal quarantine regulations, but no other restrictions would
apply. In particular this would require amendments to trade regulations, since
import of seeds of some species is banned, and to variety registration
procedures which are now too lengthy for material which has already been
officially released in a country with similar agro-ecological conditions. In
addition, improvements would be required to the plant quarantine regulations.
Short term specialists would be recruited to advise on the changes needed.
During nesotiations agreement was reached with GOB that, by June 30, 1992, GOB
would: (a) allow both public and private sector seed comanies to freely
import, under normal auarantine controls, all types of crop seed for testing.
and (b) furnish to IDA for comments the proposed amndments to the seed
regulations relating to varietal registration and seed importation and,
thereafter, promptly issue amendments (paras. 6.1(g) and 6.1(h)).
3.11      Seed Technolosy Research.  In conjunction with the research institutes
and the seed production companies, the Seed Wing would establish the specific
areas for seed technology research and monitor research performance. This work
would be supported under the project through technical assistance (para. 2.22),
while research funds would be made available from the on-going IDA-supported
Research Credit (Cr. 1455-BD).
3.12      Maintenance Breeding and Breeder and Foundation Seed Production.  The
originating breeder (for a domestic variety) would hand over a nucleus seed
stock, upon release of the variety, to the Breeder Seed Unit (BSU) of the
appropriate institute. This would be multiplied under rigorous controls to an
amount sufficient to support 10 years of multiplication. This seed would then
be drawn upon for each batch of breeder seed production. Imported materials
would be similarly handled by the importing agency. The Seed Wing would
coordinate breeder seed production based on purchase orders, foundation seed
demand estimates, stocks held, and the proposed duration of conditioned storage.
In the event of any supply shortfall, purchase orders would be honored on a pro-
rata basis. Breeder seed from public sources would be made available to prlvate
sector users who have developed the capacity to use it effectively. This
determination would be made by the Seed Wing. The Wing would also supply the
required specialist technical support to the institutes. Foundation seed
production would also be coordinated by the Wing on the basis of purchase orders
and demand estimates for commercial seed. To the extent that this could be done
without prejudice to breeder seed production, the BSUs would be at liberty to
produce foundation seed, usually of crops with low volume seed requirements.
Agreement was reached with GOB during negotiations that by October 31. 1991
private seed companies would be given equal access with BADC to breeder and
foundation seeds produced by the research institutes (para. 6.1(i)).
3.13      BARI, BRIl and BJRI would manage the civil works construction and
procurement aspects of this component.



- 27 -
S. Homestead Production
3.14      This component would be the responsibility of DAE. It would be
implemented via two complementary channels. After redefinition of their roles
and retraining, the women program coordinators would prepare and carry out their
women's activity programs (para. 2.19). Homestead production would feature
largely in these. In addition a major program would be mounted to contract with
NGOs working in this area to enable them to expand their activities. Consultant
assistance would be provided to DAB for these activities.
F.  ftro-busivese
3.15      Horticultural export production by farmers would be developed through
the Foundation. The Foundation would operate as an autonomous non-profit
organization registered under the Companies Act. It would be controlled by a
Board of Directors (VGeneral Body') made up of the Foundation's members, seven
initially with a possible expansion to 15. The initial members would consist of
three public and four private sector representatives. The Board would provide
overall policy guidance, approve annual budgets, appoint the auditors, and elect
any new member. A Governing Body of seven members to be chosen from among the
Directors would function under the control of the Board. It would comprise
three representatives from the public sector, four from the private sector, and
the Foundation's general manager who would be a non-voting member. The
Governing Body would be responsible for the Foundation's management and
administration, including approval of horticultural pilot schemes and loans by
the Foundation, the pricing of services, and staffing. It would meet at least
six times per year at two month intervals.
3.16      The Foundation would carry out its day-to-day operations under the
direction of a general manager. He would be a Bangladeshi if a suitable
candidate could be found; otherwise an expatriate would be appointed. The
general manager would be assisted by an expatriate team of field supervisor,
packaging/storage specialist, and a horticultural marketing expert. This team
would be complemented by a locally recruited horticulturalist, finance manager,
administrative assistant, and clerical and other support staff. Through
training, it is expected that the expatriates will be replaced by local
personnel over a period of five to ten years. In view of the highly specialized
expertise needed for successful development for horticultural exports, a
specialist consultant firm with a proven record of managing similar operations
in other developing countries would be engaged by the Foundation to provide the
expatriate staff with the required expertise.
3.17      The Foundation's main function would be to extend marketing and
technical know how to farmers, and assist them in the growing, harvesting,
packaging, storage, transport, and export marketing of their horticultural
products. The Foundation would also promote joint ventures between foreign
importers of horticultural products and local entrepreneurs capable of
organizing production and transport of such products. It would carry out its
responsibilities initially through three pilot schemes. In the first year
demonstration plots of about 2 ha each would be developed in locations where the
agricultural potential, and possibility of forming strong farmer associations
looked promising. In the second year the Foundation would set up basic packing
and storage plants in the three locations considered to be most suitable,
provide each plant with a refrigerated truck, contract with farmers to grow the



- 28 -
most promising horticultural crops, and package and market the produce. At the
same time, it would help establish horticultural farmers' associations. Where
the experience proves successful and the scheme sustainable, the Foundation
would, in the third year, hand over to the concerned association the plant and
the truck. This would be done under an agreement which would specify, inter
alia, the terms and conditions for refunding to the Foundation the investment
costs for these assets. The Foundation would continue to provide managerial,
technical, quality control and marketing advice, and help in export marketing,
including the financing of credit required for such marketing, until the
comuercial banks can take over this responsibility. Later on it would also
assist the associations in expanding their operations and in identifying
suitable financing for this purpose. If efforts at a given location are not
successful after the second year, the Foundation would identify a new site and
move the plant and truck to that location. The investment costs recovered from
the successful schemes would be used to start additional pilot operations. Once
a scheme has developed into large scale commercial production, the managing
association would hire any required technical and marketing expertise on its
own.
3.18      As the Foundation's objective is to promote horticultural exports, it
would normally provide its technical assistance and marketing expertise free of
charge to a scheme during its gestation period. The cost of these services,
supplied through the supporting USAID project (para. 2.21), would be covered by
the Government grant to the Foundation (para. 2.29). After the initial period,
the Foundation would charge the farmer associations for the full cost of its
services.
G.  Monitoring and Evaluation
3.19      In order to assess the effectiveness and improve the impact of the
various extension outreach mechanisms, the field services management unit
(para. 3.2) would assist DAE's District Offices in putting in place a simple and
workable monitoring system. The system would specifically monitor farmers'
responses to the various technical messages and the overall performance of the
different extension activities. It would be managed at district level. The
information generated would be consolidated at the level of MOA. Also, the
progress of the project towards meeting its objectives (para. 2.6) would be
measured on the basis of key indicators established through a buseline survey at
project start-up. The survey would provide the baseline information and
establish evaluation criteria to facilitate a critical analysis of:
(a) extension service impact on raising farmers' production; (b) improvements
to the quality and diversity of seed available to farmers; and (c) development
of an export market for high value horticultural crops. The survey and
evaluation process would be carried out by independent consultants recruited
under the project's technical assistance component. MOA will provide IDA with
semi-annual reports on implementation progress of all components and the
relevant staff reductions. During negotiations it was agreed with GOB that a
mid-term review of the proiect would also be carried out not later than June 30.
1994 (para. 6.1(i)). This exercise would also include a review of the
environmental studies on agricultural development (para. 2.23).



- 29 -
IV.   PRODUCTION, MAI =  T    P  cS, ND  SCAL  eACT
A.   Agricultural Production
Trends
4.1       The major floods in 1987 and 1988 caused a dramatic acceleration in
the annual expansion of the boro rice area and the associated fertilizer usage
by about 211 and 18Z, respectively, and the indications are that this
accelerated trend is continuing. The project is unlikely to affect
significantly this overall trend but, within this scenario, it will focus on
improving crop yields and the profitability of farming enterprises.
Crop Yields
4.2       Crop statistics show no significant increase in crop yields over the
last ten years. Since 1981, increased rice production has come solely from
expanding irrigated acreage. At present prices, the net return per hectare from
boro rice is about four times greater than for the aman crop (Annex 4) and
farmers have correctly judged that the greatest benefits initially are derived
from increasing cropping frequency through irrigation. There is considerable
scope for raising crop yields (para. 1.8), and the technology transfer process
supported by the project would concentrate on improved husbandry techniques and
the optimal use of irrigation and inputs to maximize farm returns. For example,
irrigation, which is almost exclusively used for rabi season crops, could be
utilized to improve aman rice production in the later, usually dry months of its
growing season. The availability of irrigation would lead to a replacement of
local rice varieties by HYVs and wider use of fertilizer. Present national aman
rice yields are about 1 ton/ha, produced from a 902 local, 10X HYV mix of
varieties. With improved husbandry and supplementary irrigation, a 501 yield
increase would be within the reach of the average farmer. SimLlarly with better
technology use, the present boro rice yields of about 2.4 tons/ha could, under
average management conditions, be progressively raised to 3.2 tons/ha (para.
1.7) during the project period.
B. Marketing and Prices
Marketing
4.3       Farmers may sell foodgrains either in the private market, or to COB
procurement centers. The vast majority of farmers sell to private traders
because their sale points are more conveniently located, payment is prompt, and
credit can be obtained against future crops. Crops are disposed of soon after
harvest due to storage risks, crop loan obligations, sharecropping arrangements,
and a need for cash. It is estimated that about 25Z of foodgrain production
enters the commercial market, although farmers themselves often later buy back
grain to meet their consumption needs. Although foodgrain production in 1989
reached 19.5 million tons, a figure close to the estimated self-sufficiency
level, future marketing of foodgrains is not expected to present major
difficulties.  Foodgrain demand is increasing at 31 annually, and should genuine
rice surpluses become established, at present price levels Bangladesh could
exploit the export market. The existing well-established marketing system



- 30 -
should be able to cope with these contingencies. The supporting USAID project
(para. 2.21) will provide specialist technical skills through the Foundation to
assist local agro-business enterprises in developing export markets for a range
of other products.
Prices
4.4       Food prices in the country are largely determined by supply and
demand. Although there are price fluctuations between locations, prices in the
open market generally are higher than GOB procurement prices. GOB establishes
support (procurement) prices for paddy (rice), wheat and sugarcane. These
prices take into consideration the cost of production, provide for a minimum 202
markup, and are adjusted periodically. However, cropprices at peak harvest
times are often lower than the GOB procurement price. The farmer wheat price
is particularly vulnerable to the market's perception of how much wheat from
food aid will be released, and the actual farmgate price is usually about 202
below the official procurement price. Inputs such as fertilizers, pesticides
and irrigation equipment were previously heavily subsidized, but this policy has
now been reversed and pricas are closer to their efficiency prices. At present,
prices for triple super-photphate, muriate of potassium, and urea have a subsidy
element of 32Z, 312 and 62, respectively. Subsidies for minor irrigation
equipment have been eliminated, with the exception of DTWs, for which GOB's
subsidy still represents about 662 of the efficiency price. Removal of the DTW
and fertilizer subsidies is being addressed under the proposed National Minor
Irrigation Development Project, the proposed Shallow Tubewell and Low Lift Pump
Irrigation Project, and the ongoing ADB-financed Foodcrops Development Program
Loan.
C. Fiscal Impact
4.5        Savings from staff reductions are expected to yield about Tk 17 crore
(US $5 million) annually. Incremental costs from upgrading the remaining staff
are estimated at Tk 10 crore (US $2.9 million). Providing additional operating
costs to improve staff effectiveness will cost another Tk 17 crore (US $4.9
million). The net cost therefore for an significantly more effective service
will be only Tk 10 crore (US $2.9 million). Although the project would result
in greater fertilizer utilization, it is expected that fertilizer subsidies will
be completely eliminated by the time of full development. The project would
initiate a shift towards local government meeting the cost of technology
transfer and development, and if significant local financial resources can be
mobilized by Upazillas and unions, then further savings for the central budget
could be achieved.
W    This statement is true of past experience generally.  However, in 1989,
when a record aman crop followed a record boro harvest, Government
succeeded nevertheless in maintaining prices close to the official
support price although stbrage capacity was already 802 utilized.



- 31 -
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
General
5.1       As has been found with previous IDA investments in agricultural
support services, attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of
project is problematic. It is not possible to determine what proportion of
benefits is due to project activities, and what is due to additional purchased
inputs and other factors. In practice it is a combination of factors, with
extension playing a catalyst role that brings about the desired benefits. Total
project costs over a seven-year period, excluding price contingencies, are
estimated to be about US$59.4 million. However, due to the staff reductions and
adoption of more cost effective extension outreach techniques, the recurrent
cost of maintaining the agricultural extension service will fall in real terms
at the end of the project.
Benefits
5.2       Farmer Benefits.  At the farm level, the more responsive extension
system and improvements in the quality and availability of seeds are expected to
lead to a more efficient use of resources, especially in irrigated agriculture.
This should reduce production costs and increase yields and income per unit area
of cropped land. Compared to the without project situation, and varying with
the type of crop and availability of irrigation, efficiency gains in terms of
inputs are expected to reduce per unit production costs by about 152. Rice
yields would rise from 1 t/ha to 1.5 t/ha for the irrigation assisted aman crop
and from 2.4 tlha to 3.2 t/ha for the boro crop. Income increases varying from
between Tk 900/ha (for rainfed wheat) and Tk 4,400/ha (for irrigated boro rice)
would result.
5.3       Apart from the general farmer benefits outlined above it is expected
that the homestead component would improve incomes and family nutrition in about
300,000 households. Women and children would be disproportionately benefitted as
they have primary responsibility for homestead production. Improvements to
nutrition would start to reverse a trend of many years over which nutritional
field crops such as pulses have been displaced by the more profitable paddy
crop. For the agro-business component, it is anticipated that at the end of the
three year pilot phase, about 2,000 to 2,500 farmers will have some 600 ha under
horticultural export crops. The annual export value of their production is
estimated between US$12-16 million. Results from other countries in the region
have shown that horticultural exports to Europe and Japan are economically and
financially attractive, and net returns to farmers from these crops are 6-15
times higher than from traditional crops, provided that high standards can be
maintained throughout the chain of production, harvesting, packaging, storage,
and transport to the final market.
5.4       Institutional Benefits.  The expected institutional benefits in
extension would includes (a) improved farmer-responsiveness, importantly
including the women's dimension; (b) a broader outreach in the rural community
with an important role being played by NGOs; (c) better educated staff; and (d)
improved cost-effectiveness. As a precedent for deliberate staff reductions in
the public extension service, the project would set the stage for similar
measures to increase efficiency in other agricultural and water resources
departments and parastatal agencies.



- 32 -
5.5       For the seed industry, project benefits would be derived from
improving the competitiveness of the local private sector seed companies and
assisting in the implementation of GOB's planned seed industry reforms. These
reforms woulds (a) streamline the importation of improved crop varieties and
ensure their rapid availability to farmers; (b) improve the performance of
public sector seed producing entities; and (c) open the way for multi-national
seed companies to invest in Bangladesh.
5.6       The establishment of the Foundation would constitute a major
innovative attempt to stimulate the development of private sector enterprises.
It would develop the potential for repeater operations in the agriculture and
other sectors.
5.7       Socio-Economic Benefits.  At the level of the national economy, the
various project components are expected to lead to increases in agricultural
production. These production increases would lead to increased rural Incomes
and employment. Equity would be improved through support services reaching a
wider range of farmers, including small farmers, sharecroppers, and women.
Agricultural production and exports would diversify under the impact of seed
industry improvements and the Foundation's activities, and these changes would
have a positive impact on production practices. Because it is not possible to
arrive at a precise level of benefits from project investments, an Economic Rate
of Return (ERR) has not been calculated for the project. However, an economic
sensitivity analysis (Annex 4) indicates that the ERR for project investments is
satisfactory under a broad range of scenarios.
Risks
5.8       First, although extension staff reductions have been agreed upon by
GOB, such reductions will be politically sensitive. As the reductions will be
achieved through attrition, and becausl of the Government's strong commitment to
increase efficiency, implementation oW the reduction program would be practical.
Second, there is a possible risk that GOB's local taka allocations made through
ADP may be insufficient to mobilize the full IDA funding as projected in the
SAR's implementation schedule. However, this project is a part of GOB's core
funded development program and as such will have priority ranking for access to
local taka resources. Third, any intervention by GOB in agricultural inputs
distribution and sale would sharply increase farmer costs and interfere with the
timely availability of inputs. There is a low probability of this happening
given the present scope of private sector involvement and its operational
efficiency. Fourth, farmer foodgrain prices could come under severe downward
pressure if the present accelerated production trends continue and adjustments
are not made in food aid policies. Food aid donors and the GOB are already
working on this issue. Finally, there is a risk that the project's pilot
component for agro-business development may not take shape, since (a) the
Foundation has yet to be established; (b) there may be problems in reaching
agreement on a satisfactory subsidiary agreement between GOB and the Foundation
for the channeling of IDA funds; and/or (c) the agreement between USAID and GOB
on financing the establishment and basic operations of the Foundation may not be
signed. To guard against this risk, suitable disbursement conditions have been
included in the project.



- 33 -
VI.  AsIUome8 -NaOm  AND UNOOIDASI
6.1       Agreements have been obtained from GOB thats
(a) a program satisfactory to IDA for improving the effectiveness of
extension staff, including staff reductions, would be furnished to IDA
by December 31, 1991 (para. 2.8);
(b) a farmer training needs assessment and a training action plan would be
prepared by March 31, 1992 and that GOB would Include the project
training action plan in the National Training Plan by June 30, 1992
(para. 2.17);
(c) consultants would be employed by December 1, 1991 (para. 2.22);
(d) by October 31, 1991 all required actions would be taken to establish
the autonomous role and broader structure of DTCs (para. 3.3);
(e)  a Seed Wing would be established in MOA by October 31, 1991 (para.
3.8);
(f) BADC would restrict the marketing of its seeds to wholesaling to
private dealers by June 30, 1992 (para. 3.8);
(g) under the normal quarantine controls, both public and private sectors
seed companies would be allowed to freely Import all types of crop
seeds for testing by June 30, 1992 (para. 3.10);
Ch) proposed amendments to the seed regulations relating to varietal
registration and seed importation would be sent to IDA for comment not
later than June 30, 1992 and that amendments would be issued promptly
thereafter (para. 3.10);
(i)  private seed companies would be given, by October 31, 1991, equal
access with BADC to breeder and foundation seeds produced by the
research institutes (para. 3.12)
(j) a mid-term review would take place by June 30, 1994 (para. 3.19).
6.2       Conditions of effectiveness wil bet
(a) approval of the Project Proforma by GOB (para. 2.24); and
(b)  effectiveness of the co-financing agreement between GOB and ODA
(para. 2.28).
6.3       Disbursement against expenditures incurred undet the project's agro-
business component will be conditlonal upon:
(a) establishment of the Foundation and execution of a subsidiary
agreement between GOB and the Foundation satisfactory to IDA
(para. 2.29); and
(b) signing of the USAID financing agreement covering the establishment
and operating costs for the Foundation (para. 2.29).



- 34 _
6.4       With the above conditions and a*reements, the project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh of
SDR 24.4 million (US$35.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms, vith a
maturity of 40 years.



-35 -
ANNEX 1
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Technology Transfers
Proposed New Work Schedule for Field Extension Officers (Block Supervisors)
Day
1          Visiting farmers with demonstration plots
2          Preparations for field days (erecting billboards, giving notice to
union centers and target farmer groups, arranging agenda and
speakers, etc.)
3 - 5      Conducting field days with visiting farmers
6          Office day
7          Rest day
8          Visiting farmers with demonstration plots/planning new
demonstrations
9          Preparations for field days
10 - 11     Conducting field days with visiting farmers
12          Training and discussion of field problems with the Subject Matter
Officer (SHO)
13          Office day
14          Rest day
15          Visiting farmers with demonstration plots
16 - 19     Visits to farmer groups for discussions and problem solving
20          Office day
21          Rest day
22          Visiting farmers with demonstration plots/planning new
demonstrations
23 - 25     Visits to farmer groups for discussions and problem solving
26          Training and discussion of field problems with the Subject Matter
Officer (SMO)
27          Office day
28          Rest day
29 - 31     Miscellaneous - leave, other work-related meetings, etc.



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 8
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Technical Assistance
1.    This Annex provides guideline terms of reference for the technical
assistance required during the implementation of the first four years of the
project. After three to three-and-a-half years of implementation, an in-depth
review of performance would be conducted to establish what further technical
assistance may be needed. The technical assistance would cover the following
areas:
Extension Service Develoument
(a)   extension management;
(b)   irrigation management;
(c)   training development and coordination;
'd) extension and environmental impact monitoring and evaluation.
Seed Industry DeveloPment
Ca)   seed industry management;
(b)   maintenance breeding and breeder seed production;
(c)   seed processing and technology research.
Homestead Production
(a)   development and extension of technology packages;
(b)   training development and coordination.
2.    During the first four years of the project it is estimated that the
total technical assistance requirement would be 238 and 94 staff months of
internationally and locally recruited specialists, respectively. The
assistance for extension service development and for seed industry development
would be provided by an international consultancy firm, while that for
extension and environmental monitoring and impact evaluation would be carried
out by independent experts to ensure impartiality. The assistance to the
Homestead Production component would be obtained through contracts with NGOs
which had already demonstrated success either with homestead production
directly or in a closely related field linked to working with women
agriculturalists. The work would be directed by the operations unit in DAB.



- 37 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 8
A. Extension Service Development
Extension Nanagement
3.    Within the Field Services Division of DAE an extension management
specialist (45 staff months), responsible to thu Director, would head the new
management support unit. The extension management specialist's
responsibilities, as head of the management support unit, would be tot
(a) develop a five year operational program for the consolidation and
reorganization of field level staff and supervise the
implementation of the annual plans designed to effect the changes;
(b)   undertake the strategic planning and budgeting of outreach
programs including the Homestead Production program;
(c)   guide the district technical committees in preparing locally
relevant impact points, demonstrations and campaigns to maximize
extension-farmer contact;
(d)   establish lines of communication with commercial farm input
suppliers, NGO's and other iziterested groupss
(e)   facilitate extension-research interaction at all levels and
develop mechanisms to ensure that constraints at farmer level are
fully articulated for researchers;
(f)   assist the Training Wing in preparing relevant training schedules
for all field cadres;
(g)   arrange and manage the short-term consultancy inputs described in
para. 4 below.
4.    In support, short-term inputs by expatriate and local consultants
totalling 10 and 20 staff months respectively would be provided tot
(a)   carry out a survey of farmers' information needs and develop a
methodology for regular ongoing assessments;
(b)   assess women's agricultural extension needs and methods of
orienting extension approaches for women;
(c)   advise on the development of group extension methods;
(d)   assist with the development of market awareness in the extension
service.
Irrigation Manaaement
5.   Also attached to the management support unit in DAE would be an
irrigation manaaement specialist (36 staff months). In conjunction with field



-38 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 8
level staff and in liaison with the training coordinator the responsibilities
of this specialist would be to:
(a)   formulate for irrigated agronomic practices the appropriate
technical approaches, and supervise their integration into
extension outreach activities;
(b)   liaise with National Minor Irrigation Development Project staff
and ensure that DAE staff participate jointly in the tubewell
demonstration scheme planned under this project;
(c)   aceist with the preparation of training programs in irrigation
management for all levels of DAE staff and ensure that this
training is included in the overall DAE Training Plan and reaches
all field staff.
Training Develou,ent and Coordination
6.    A training coordinator (45 staff months) would be attached to the
Training Division of DAE. This specialist would be assist the Director of
Training and would:
(a) formulate training objectives and finalize the draft Training Plan
for DAE - see para. 7(a) below;
(b)   improve course design and effectiveness via attention to selection
of subject matter content, development of curricula, lesson plans,
selection of candidates and the selection of suitable
instructional media, materials and training techniques;
(c)   increase the efficiency of operational planning and budgeting for
training activities;
(d)   maintain training records and set up a training follow-up and
evaluation system;
(e)   organize the foreign training program, select candidates and
courses and process applications;
(f)   arrange and manage the short-term consultancy inputs described in
para. 7 below.
7.    Supporting short-term inputs by expatriate and local consultants
totalling 16 and 40 staff months, respectively, would be provided to:
(a)   undertake a detailed training needs assessment of DAE and prepare
a draft Training Plan;
(b)   advise and conduct training on curriculum and lesson plan
development, participatory training techniques and training of
trainers;



- 39 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 8
(c)   develop video production techniques and the use of media in
teaching;
(d)   advise on the formulation of training evaluation procedures:
(e)   advise on appropriate management training inputs to DAE training
programs;
(f)   explore the opportunities for distance learning programs.
imPact Monitoring and Kvaluation
8.    Independent of the main operational technical assistance input, a
separate program of short-term assistance would carry out extension and
environmental impact monitoring and evaluation for MOA. This would include
coverage of the Homestead Production component. Initially, a baseline survey
would be carried out to establish the criteria and indicators for extension
impact evaluation. Subsequent inputs would develop a regular monitoring
program and in year four, an evaluation would be undertaken. Environmental
monitoring activities would concentrate on pesticide use and safety;
fertilizer use and trends in soil fertility; and trends in crop
diversification and irrigation water management. The extension impact and
environmental monitoring programs would report separately but, since the
indicators would overlap to some degree, their planning would be coordinated
and the monitoring programs combined where feasible. A total of 20 and 34
staff months of expatriate and local consultants, respectively, would be
provided.
B. Seed Industry Development
9.    A seed industry management specialist (39 staff months) would be located
in the new Seed Industry Development Cell (SIDC) within MOA, and would report
to the Joint Secretary (Seeds and Inputs). The specialist would assist SIDC
to develop and implement GOB's proposed reforms in the seed industry, and in
particulars
(a)   identify potential private sector seed entrepreneurs, assist them
with preparation of proposals for commercial loan finance, and
advise on specific processing equipment, working capital and
technical requirements;
(b)   assist with the arrangement of bulk imports of seed processing
equipment;
lc)   advise BADC on the structural, institutional and administrative
changes necessary to achieve financial viability;
(d)   advise on the necessary changes to seed regulations and assist
with their implementation;



- 40 -                            ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 8
(e)   establish lines of communication among institutions within the
seed sector, viz. BADC, private seed companies, research
institutes, DAE and leading farmers;
(f)   establish realistic crop priorities and short and long-term seed
production targets;
(g)   organize in-country and overseas training and study tours for seed
industry personnel in both the public and private sectors.
Maintenance Breeding and Breeder Seed Production
10.   Also attached to the Seed Industry Unit (SIU) would be a breeder seed
production specialist (12 staff months). This specialist would be responsible
for:
(a)   assisting the research institutes' maintenance breeders to
establish the infrastructure and facilities for breeder seed
production units at the nine selected stations;
(b)   establishing within SIU the capability to assess breeder and
foundation seed requitements, and coordinate and monitor their
production and distribution.
Seed Processina and Technology Research
11.   Short-term technical assistance totalling 16 staff months would be
provided to the SIU in seed processing and seed technology research. These
inputs would cover the following areas:
(a)   assistance with the installation of seed processing plants at the
9 breeder seed production units and provision of training for
their operation;
(b)   identification of seed quality related problems and the
organization and monitoring of sub-contracted programs in seed
technology research at BARI, BnRl and BJRI designed to identify
causes and solutions.
C. Homestead Production
12.   Under the direction of the operations unit of DAE suitably experienced
NGOs would be contracted to implement this component. Technology packages
would be developed working in close collaboration with the relevant DTC. They
would reflect the experience of the NGOs themselves and the work of BARI's
Farming System's Research program. Training would be given to both client
groups and to the DAE staff who were themselves involved with the women's
extension program to improve their effectiveness. Training programs would



- 41 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 8
vary to reflect the experience and methods of the various NGOI. Impact
monitoring and evaluation would be an element of the overall program (para.
8).
D. Reporting and Scheduling of Technical Assistant Inputs
Re ortinh
13.   The consultants would submit an inception report three months after
mobilization, detailed semi-annual progress reports and a mid-term report at
the beginning of year four summarizing achievements and making proposals for
any further technical assistance requirements. The inception report would
contain approach papers on extension management, irrigation management,
training papers on extension and irrigation managemenit, training development
and coordination, seed industry management, the homestead production program,
and the draft Training Plan for DAE. The breeder seed production specialist
would also submit an approach paper three months after arrival. The mid-term
report would be submitted before the performance review referred to in para. 1
above. A final report covering progress over the entire project, and
recommendations for the future, would be expected at the end of the technical
assistance input. Short-temn consultants and the extension and environmental
monitoring and impact evaluation programs would submit separate reports.
Scheduling of technical assistance inputs
14.  A bar chart showing the indicative timing of technical assistance inputs
is shown in Figure 1.
S. Qualifications and Experience of Consultants' Staff
15.   The profiles for the long-term professionals within the consultancy team
are given below. It is envisaged that the Extension Management Specialist
would be the overall team leader.
(a). Team Leader/lxtension Managnement Specialist. The candidate should
possess an agricultural degree with at least fifteen years
experience in agricultural extension/development in developing
countries and significant experience in management positions.
Previous experience as leader of a multidisciplinary team is also
required. Knowledge of Bangladesh or the sub-continent would be a
major asset;
(b) Irrigation Management Specialist. The candidate should possess an
agricultural or civil engineering degree and a minimum of seven
years experience in irrigated agriculture in developing countries,
a part of which should include extension/training activities.
Previous experience of minor irrigation development in Bangladesh
or similar environments would be a major assets



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 8
(c) Trainina Coordinator. The candidate should possess a degree in
agriculture or related subjects and a minimum of ten years
experience in agricultural training, a significant proportion of
which should have been spent in developing countries. Knowledge
of Bangladesh or the sub-continent would be a major asset;
(d)   Seed Industr Mnagemet-Dcialist.  The candidate should possess
a minimum of fifteen years experience in seed production,
including at least eight years in the commercial sector and five
years in senior management positions. Familiarity with financial
management and the range of seed processing equipment available is
also required. Knowledge of Bangladesh or the sub-continent would
be major asset; and
(e)   Broeder Seed Production Specialist.  The candidate should possess
a degree in plant breeding or a related subject and the minimum of
five years experience in breeder seed should include cereal crops,
preferably including vegetables, pulses and jute.



FIGURE 1. INDICATIVE SCHEDULE OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE INPUTS
.  1991/12       1s9moen          199/994          1941s
1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4
EKnon mm__n_t s_o                                  _        -    -    - _
FwmwebndNdsurv
G bWs Exin-d in Needs
GmW Exiwn etshods
Tr*" CoorJI                            -            -
Tmhkig Need Ass e__ssm_t
VIdeo Nd Me
TihigEluada 
Tmnqem#TuT*_
sew dot M=done                                                              = Spon
8dP_~                              -=_ -- -
Bs"l                - Po-w         .  "
Seed Ah
_-  -             -  -_            -  -_           -- _  __
PtE



-44-                                                    ANNEX 3
MAOLADSH                                        Table  1
ACRICULTURAL 8U T  RWSICUE PROECT
Table 101. TEcIO TLO    N TfER
etailed Cost Table
(TK '0001
uantiti
Unit     91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98   Total    unit Cost
1. INVESTIT COSTS
A. CIVIL IIOR8 /a
1. UtON EXTENSION CENTERS        No             -        O       se         -        -         -        -       128        235
Sub-Total CIVIL NORKS /a
*. TRA    T AND WOUIPIENt
1t UOTORCYCLES                  lo.             -    1.390         -         -        _         _        -    1,390          37
2* DICYCLES                     No.             -    5,000         -         -        -    5,000          -   10,000          S
3 PERSNAL COMIUTER              No              -       138        -         -        -         -         -      138        IOS
4. V      COM       PAA         M               -        64        -         -        -         -         -       64        122
5. UPAZILA EUIP PACKAES         No.             -         -      460         -        -                          460         28
6'. UNION EMIP. PAWES            No.            -         -    2WOO         -        -         -         -    2.500          7
Sub-Total TAN T AND E031
C. WITEACH ACTIVITIES
1. IEDIA CWIPAI                 No.             -         1        1         1        1         1         1        6        209
2.  IONTRM                       No,        1,200   364000   364000   36,000   36,000   36,000   36,000  217,200              1
3, FIEL  DAYS                   No.        3OOO   144000  144lOOO   144000  144000  144,000  144000  902,000                  0
4. tAPZILA PEC INIT# FMD8        No.            -        64       64        64        64       64        64       384       lO
e EXlENSION  .IKCATIONS         lo              -         1        1         1         1        1         1         6     1,751
Sub-Total WTREACH ACTIVITIES
Total INUESTIENT C0STS
tl. RECWUNT COSTS
At ORATION I NAINTEHINE
1. CIVIL IIOP                 ON    n.         - C ho-,
2. MOTORCYCLES              0DIN Chari         -         -         -        -         -         -        --
3, PERSONM  COIIIUTE         OIN Chr*          -         -         -        -         -        -         --a
4. VIDEO COII. PFACUAE       03 Charm          -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -
S. UPLA EIUIP. E1AKS   0D  Charg               -         -         -        -         -         -        -
6. UlION EQ£IP PAO I        OLN Ch"           -         -         -        -         -         -        -
7. OFFICE EXPINES (MIMSA)    Lu                -         -         -        -         -        -         -
S. OFFICE EXPEN   (nw)    Lu_                  -         -         -        -         -         -        -
Sub-Tota O TnolN s MINIE
Total RECU RRNt COSTS
Total
/a    ludus ten  for deslin  d cotructmin smrvision
urIbh 6 1991 17:04



- 45 -                                         ANNEX 3
IbNGADESH                                Table 2
AGRICULTURAL WPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Table 101* TECHNOLOGY TRSFER
Detailed Cost Table
(TK '000)
Totals Includint Contingencin
91/92   92/93    93/94   94/U9    S96    96t97    97/98   Total
I. INJSTET COSTS
A. CIVIL NORKS /a
1t UNION EXTENSION CENTERS            - 21.769.3 19,208.4                                 - 40,977.7
Sub-Total CIVIL WIIS Ia                  - 21s769.3 19,208.4       -       -                 - 40,977.7
I. TANSPORT AND EGUIPEENT
1. HOTORCYMLES                        - 60s129.8        -       -       -        -        - 6O.129.8
2. aICYCLCr                           - 27.809.3        -       -       -512N.            - 631059.0
3, P8E!WALj COjUTR                    - 16.85746        -       -       -        -        - 16,5746
4 VIDEO COMUN. PACKAGES               -  9254.9         .          _             _        -  9,254.9
S. tiPAZItA EOUIP. PACKAGES           -        -    37          -       -        -        - 16349.
6. UNION EQUIP. PACKAES               -        - 23,037.0       -       -        -        - 23,0370
Sub-Total TRAOR T AN E                   -114,051.7 39,386.8       -          35249.7        - 10.60.2
C. ORAC  ACTIVITIES
1. lOlA CAMPAIGN                      -    253.0   269.4   285.2   302.6   320.8   340.1  l1M7O
2. DEIONSTRATION                  998.5 31,873.4 33,940.4 3S5935.5 35,131.8 40,421.1 42,346.7 224,137.3
3. FIED DAYS                    4,471.6  18#213.4 19394. 20534.6 21P739.6 23.097.8 24.483.8 131.935.4
4. tAZIUA SPEC. NIT. FtUS             -  8,094*8  8,619.8 9#1265 9,484.3 10,265*7 10,381#7 56,672.7
S. EXTENSION PRUWCATIONS              -  2.095,6  2,231.7 2.348,2 2M06.0  2657,0  2,616.5 14,65.0
Sub-Total OUTRAC ACTIIE            5460.3 60530,1 64s4558 68,230.0 72,414.3 76762.3 81,38.7 429P2215
.~                           -          -      -      -        -. -            .-
Total INUESTIENT COSTS                5460.3 196.351,2 123W050,9 68,230.0 72e414.3 112P012.0 31.30.7 658.837W3
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATION I MAINTENANE
1. CIVIL VORKS                       -    97S.6  1.899.9 1491883 2,132.5  2261.3  2,397.2 11.684.9
2. HOTORCYCLES                       - 12,061.4 12,846.0 13,443.7 14418*3  15,239.4 16,200.1 84u267.1
3. PERONL COIT                       -    86557    911.4  9M3.  1.022,9  1.O347  144149  5973.5
4. VIDEO COMUW   PACKA1E                   464.1    44.3   517t3   554.8    518*3    623.7  324425
5. UPAZU    W. PA.AS                         -  1639.8 1,716.0 1,840.5  l,l1.6  2,068,9  9,216*.
6. UIZON     . PACG                  -        -  2,310.  2u4179 2,593.2  2,749.  2,15.1 12.916,6
t OFICE EfX 9IF! (NW)                      62.0    66.0    6.1    74.1        78.6     U33    43*0
8, OMCK  E EOM  (FIU)                -  1586.5  1,6897 1,768.3 1,9 65  2,011.1  2,131.9  11.34461
Sub-Total OrTON I IxmmO                 * 16-O0563 21857,6 22,374.4 24533,1 26015.0 2e7,7. 13838635
Total RCRET COST                           - 18,005.3 21.657,6 22t874.4 2453,  2640150 *78.51 1380863.
Total                                  5460.3 212356.* 144,9068.4 91,104,4 96,9473 133,027,0 106946.S 797,750.3
/  Inludes tefs for dsij, an constrwUt   uuerism
Mardh 6. 1M   17:04



- 46 -                                                  ANNEX 3
Table  3
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Table 101. TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER
Detailed Cost Table
Brvakdo  ot Totals Iml. Cont
Totals Includins Contingencies                            (S '000)
(U4S '000)                                 . . .-.....
..    .      __  ._,_.^_-----                                       Local (Exl. Duties t
91/92 92/93  93/94  94,1S  95/96  9697  97/98  Totel    For. Exch.   Taxn)    Taxes   Total
* 3U8 uuauaa aa,uuuu maxni  Man s  amas.  X"a .m        a           . .aaaaau.aass.. aaua.uaa aatum,
t. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL HORKS /a
1. UNION EXTENSION CENTUS        -  $59.2  479i0                               1037.2        201.2      732.3   103.7 1,037.2
Sub-Total CIVIL MORKS /a               558.2  479.0          -                    1037.2        201.2      M,3   103.7 1,037.2
It TRANSPORT AD EGUIPHefT
1. NOTORCYCLE8        1,S            41.S                                   - 1,541.6        684.0      M9S2   425 1.541.8
2. UlCYC,LES                         713.1     _       _      -  621.7      - 1,534.7        61.S       m.s   460.4 1,534.7
3. PERSAL CMPTER                 -  432.2      -      _                     -   432.2        323.4       22.4   86.4   42.2
4. VIDEO COiW,U  PA S            -  237.3      _                            -   2373         105.3        0.6    71.2   237.3
S. UPAZILA EUIP. PAES            -      -  407.7      -       -      -          40.t7        190.9      104.5   122.3   407.7
6. UNION EQUIP. PAAG             -      -  574.5      -       -      -          574.         2549       147.2   172.3   574.5
,-- -  - . 
Sub-Total TRAPORT NOD EWUIPMT       - 2,924*4  9S2,2     -      -  821.7         4#73.3       2,229,2    1W123.9 1375.3 4M723.3
C. WMTRAH ACTIVITIES
-. IEDIA CAIPAII                 -    6.5    6.7    7.1    7.2    2.5    7.7    42.S          2.1        39.6     2.1    42.8
2. WONSTRATION                26.3  817.3  84.4  696.1  910.1  942.2  976.0 5,414.4          259.6    4W8839   270.7 S5414.4
3. FIELD DAYS                118.9  467.0  483.7  512.1  520.0  539.4  557*7  S,197,6        153.5    2,694.5   159,9 3,197.8
4. WA.ULA SPEC. INIT. FMID8      -  207W6  215.0  227.6  231.1  239.3  247.9 13468.4          65.4    14234.3    68.4 1,368.4
5. EXTENSION MLICATIONS          -   53.r  55.7   58.6   5.S   61.9   64,2   353.8           13.1       215.4    35.4   353.S
Total OUTREACN ACTIVITIES       145,2 1.S52.1 1,607*4 1,701*5 1t726.3 1,799.3 1.S53,5 10,377.2  584.0    9256.7   516,6 10M,2
-  ----- -a   a. ~- ---   ----- ---------
Total INVESTmENT COSTS            145.2 5,034.6 3,068.6 1701,5 19728.3 2,611.0 1,S5335 16,142.7  3,014.5    11t112.7 2,015.5 169142.7
11. REOSWT COSTS
A. OPERATION I AIN'W1d
1. CIVIL WORKS                  -   25.0   47.4   49.6   50.9   52.7   54.6   290.2         109         86.2   84.1   290.2
2. NOtORCYE                     -  309.3  320.3  3.3  344.1  356.4  369.2 2,034.6           7.1        62641  610.4 2.034.6
3, PERSOAL COWIF                -   21.9   22.7   23.8   24,4   25.3   26.2   144.3          56.6       44U4    43.3   144I3
4. VIDEO CaIm, PACE             -   11.t   12.3   12.9   13.2   13.7   14.2   79.3          30.7        24.1    23.5   78.3
5. UPAZILA EQUIP. PA                   -   40.9   4298  43.9   45.5   47.1   220.2          16.4        67.9    66.1   220.2
6. UNION EQUIP FAC-                        57*6   60.3   61.9   64.1   66.4   310.3         121.7       95.5 -  93.1   310.3
7. OfFICE EP        M           -    1.6    1.6    1.7    1.i    1.6    1.9   10.5           4.1         3.2     3.1    10.5
8. OFFICE EE       Fl)          - 407   42,1   44.1   45,3   46.9   48.6   267.6           I05.         82.3    90.3   267.6
Sub-Total OPERATIoN t    IINANC       410.4  545.1  570.4  595.5  606,4  626.2 3346*0       1312.5      1029.7 1 M003.8 3,346.0
-       _.-    -    __   _.-    -          -                   -     ----a
TotalWREOMRENT COSTS                  -  410.4  545.1  570.4  595.5  606.4  628.2 3,346.0       1,312.5     1,029.7 1,003.9 3346.0
Total                              145.2 5,45.0 3,613.7 2,271.9 2,313.9 3,217.4 24SW1  19468.8   4,326.9    12.142*5 3.019.3 19,481.8
--- ---  -                 --------s nn     ---- -- mm            ,mmgas    aanmw
/a Includes ts tar dl and contrutIn swurvlsin
lardh 6. 1991 1704



47  -                                      ~~~~~~~~~ANNEX  3
Table 4
SANLaDESN
AGRICULTURAL SUPPRT SERVICES PROJECT
table 201. TRAINING
ODtailed Cost Table
(TIC 'GOOR
Guantib
Unit    9IM   92n3  93/94  94/95 9/96 96/97 97/90 Total   tnit Cost
I. INYESTYENT COSTS
........ .......... .
A. CIVIL WRKS
1. CERDI-NEU STAFFOUARTS                so          -   1492  1v492  16         -    -    -   ,951            7
2. CERDI-TRAINING C. RA                uP           -       -      -       -    -    -    -
3. ATI-REHBILITATION                   Lu           -       -      -       -    -           - 
Sub-total CIVIL iMS
0. tRANSPORT AND EOUIPHENT
1. ,INISUSES                            No.         -      12      -       -    -    ^    -       12      1.421
2. FOUR-DEE   R.                        No.         -      13       -      -    -    -    -        13       m
3. PICK                                 No.         -       3      -       -    -    -    -        3          5
4. NOTORCLES                             0.         *       0      -       -    -    -    -        20        37
5, BICYCLES                             No.         -      20      -       -    -    -    -        20         5
6. EOUIPltENT                         lan           -
7. FURNITURE                          lu            -       -      -       -    -           -       -
Sb-Total TRANPORT AND EUIPMENT
C. TRAINING
1. FOREIGN LONG-TERM                   no9nh        -       6    196    208  108    -    -    603            73
2. FOREIGN SHORT-TERN I STUDY TRAIN.   unrth        -      54     81      52    6    -    -    193          146
3. POST ORADUATE                        u           -       -      -       -    -    -    -
4. IN-I  ICE                          lu            -       -      a          -    -    - 
S. UPRDIN                             lu            -       -      -       -          a -        -
6. FARLERCLIENT  ROM                  lwu           -       -       -      -    -    -    -
7. PROFESSIONAL                       l tm          -       -      a       a    -           '
8. MATERIALS I PUlL.    .uWm                                -       -      a    -    a    -
Sub-Total TRAINING
Total lINESTMENT COSTS
It. RECURRENt COSTS
A. OPEtATION A IlS AINiOEC
1. CIVIL 110S 0                                            a       a      a    -        - -
2. NINIZWSE                        . Wi Che                a       a      a    a    -    a-        a
3. FOl-l   OlR.   OV     I         C h i           - C             a            -    a    - -
4. PICK WS                          O01   he        -      a       -      a    a    a    -
S.t OTOCYMIES                       01 Cht"                -       -      -    a    -    -
6. IICYCLES                         O      tI w"r   - "            a      -    -    -    a
7.EGUIPENT OEl  her                                -       -       a      a    -    a    -
3o S1V(RE                              OU lors       -       -      a       -    -    -    a-        a
Total RECUaRENt COStS
Total
Match 6i 1991 17:04



- 48 -
BANGUDESH                                        Table 5
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Table 201. TRNING
Detailed Cost Table
(TK I'00)
Totals Including ContinUncius
91192  92/93    93/94    94/95   95/96   9/97   97/98   Tota
.uuw 8=88mm   B-         US,UUUUU msama mms
i. INMESTHENT COSTS
A. CIVIL  ORS
1. CERDI-NE STAFFOUARTERS                   - 14,435.5 15n372.6 21,377.8       -        -       - S1h185.9
2. CERDI-TRAININO C. REHA                   -  lS2S,9  2 6437.5        -       -       -        -  3,963.4
3. ATI-RNLITATION                           - 19t360.2 30,924.7        -       -        -       - 50254.9
Sub-Total CIVIL  OMS                           - 3321.6 48434.8 21.3778           -       -       - 105434.2
D. TRANSPORT AND EWUIPtIT
1. NINI8USES                                - 22s989.0        -        -       -       -        -22 0
2. FOUR-WEEL DR.                            - 11,247.3        -        -       -        -       - 11,247.3
3. PICK UPS                                 -  2,780.9        -        -       -       -        -  2.780.9
4. NOTORCYCLES                              -    865.2        -        -       -        -       -    865.2
S. BICYCLE                                  -    111.2        -        -       -       -        -    111.2
6. EGUIPINT                                 -    817.0 114165.7        -       -        -       - 11.982.7
7. FUNITURE                                 -        -        -  2,719.8       -       -        -  2719.8
Sub-Total TRNSPORT AND EWWIT                   - 38.810,6 11,165.7  2,719.8       -       -       - S2 U6.1
C. TRAININo
1. FOREIN LOW-TEMN                          -  8,484.0 18.445.1 20#703.6 11t417.8      -        - 59.C50.S
2. FOREIGH 9ORT-TEN I S     TUD tRAIN.      -  9544.5 15,245.5 10,351.8 1268.6        -       - 36410@.4
3. POST GRDUATE                             -  1,767.5  1,882.2  1990.7 2,114.4 2o241,4 2375.9 12,372*1
4. IN-SERJICE                               -  9,014.3  9t59.°0  Ot1S2.7 10,783.5 11,431.2 12,117.3 U3097.9
5. UPGRADING                                - 11635.2  12.390.0 13,104.7 9.569.2 7?836   97.5 5,515.1
6. FAMER/CLIENT  MOIP                       - 13,193.1 14,049*0 146859.3 15.782.MS 1730.6 17,734.7 924349.2
7. PROFESSIONIAL                            -    429.3    47.1    483.5   513.5   544.3   577.0  3,004.7
8. NATERIALS I PUBL. .                            583*8  1,892.2  1*990.7 2114.4 2,241*4 2,375.9  11,4864
u-Total TRANING                                - 54,951*7 73n950.0 73.637.0 53P563.9 414027.6 36e158e.3 333,288.4
Total INESTwENt- COtST                           - 129,083.9 1338505S 97.734.S 53,563.9 414027.6 36,158.3 491t418.8
Ir. RECW8ENT COSTS
A. WPIRATION AN  IANiIEIWIE
1t CIL 1103                                -  1.582.9  3,870.1  S,000.8 53U3.4 5687.4 6#0Q.1 27,533.7
2. IUNIUUE                                 -  4,611.4  4,911.3  StV39.8 5,512.5 5#845.S  ,19.7 32217.2
3. FOtM-i. No                              -  2.820.l  3,003.6  3,14.3 3371.2 3574.9 3,7.7 19,702.7
4 PICK W$                                  -    57.8   5941    621.8   646.8  707.1   749*6  3,87*2
S. IlTWlME                                       173.5    184.8   193.4   207.5   220.0   233.2  1,212.5
6. IICYCLES                                       11.2    11.9      12.4    13.3       -       -     48.8
7. EUIPIT                                        I 31.  tR09;1  1263.3 1,354.9  1436.7 1tE2S.0  6,86.9
8. RNITURE                                 _        _        _    136.0   144.5   153.2   162.3   596,0
S aToal OtIATION01 Nl  lU                     *  9e83.8 13,783.0 15510.8 16P634.1 17,U4.7 18W13.7 92,075.1
3. UIPSION                                    -  1t570.?  1wn2.6  1,764.3 1,87.6 191.6 2v111.2 1091.9
Total IECURI Et CoStS                            - 11409.5  15,45.6 17275.1 18512.8 7 1916.3 20794.8 103,064.0
-mm   -    nm                        n r n   _  _ _
Totl                                              - 140903.4 149306.1 1s15009.7 n2o76.6 604643.9 5693.2 59482.3
M1rch 6v 19l 17l04



- 49-                                                       AI.NE 3
Table 6
RICUILTURAL lilFT  MVICES PROCT
Tble 201. TIMNIN6
etiled Cod Tdle
Uteakdm  d Totals Ir. Cot
Totals Ieludlr Continisnesn                                 (Us '000)
Local (Ewl. Odin I
n1/92 9/3  93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97  97/93  Totl           for. fch.   Tie)    Taxn    Totl
to310mw  coin
--                            -  370.1  331.4  511.1       -      -      - 1,266.6          247.7       910.2   123.7  1.36.6
to CESI-  IE  TAMFIUM1TU                  not.  60.3       -              -999                       19.4        70.5    10.0    "99.
2. CIR3ITUIDII  Co Am                    496,4  M712       -                     -1.267.6           245.9        MO5.    126.0  12*67.
3. AT_-W_MD_ TATU                                                                                    __ ____
iihTotaI ~~~~~~~~~               905.7 1.215.1  5313      -       -        2o65.1           511.0     1415.7   248.4 2o454.
So lUMIWT No IUIEIf
1. T                                 - N3.1    .2          -       -      -      -   539.5          2615        15 11    76.5   5s.5
2. FOhI-VHEELE Me                        2WA4       -                -                201.4         127.9        71.9    36.5   249.4
1-   71.3     -              -                   71.1          S1.6        16,3    21.4    7131
It P    In                                22t2- .2  -      -                           2 _   -   S2  N.6          5.7     6.7    22*2
4S 1. E 3u                                 2.9      -                            _     2.             1.3         0,7     0.9     2.9
20.9  273.4                     -29.4                     132.6        76.7      .    29A.4
?. fliulln                           -       -      -              -      -            67.3           6.4        546      6.3    6.3
S*-Toebl  WTuR AND EIfN                 -  9N5.1  273.4   U867       -      *       - 1341.4           571.5      3111   3169 1,1414
C. TUA1111
1. FOUEII LU-TEEM                    -  217.5  4U0.0  516.3  272.5        -      - 1#466.3          140I5     1325.8        - 1466.3
2. FfREIGN UIT-IE  3S1    11VW 11.    -  244*7  310.2  253.1   30.3              -   913,3           V7.7        25.7       -   913.3
3. pF   Lil                          -   45.3   46.9   49.6   105   52.2   54.1  M2.7                2.7        270.0            296.7
4, jj,. Cf.                          -  211.1  239*4  253*2  27.4  266.5  26.0  M,=S                146*5     193771        -  I2.S5
St  ~1111                            -    *2    309.0  326*6  220.4  132.7   22.1 1,367.5           131.3     1,236#2       - 1W367.5
6. FAIU1C    T   _M                      338.3  350.3  370.6  176.7  390.0  4040 222.8              214*4    2W01S4         - 2229
7, FAOFEW                            -' 11.0   11.4   12.1   12.1   12.7   13.1    72.5               7.0        6S,6       -    72,5
go IIATERI.S I FL                    -   22.7   46.9   4.6   5.s   52.2   54.1   276*1               26.5       249.S       -    m6.1
b-Tol TRA=                               - 1.490 1314441 1,316.3 1,278,4  956.4  3217 31,147.9         72.6    7,365.3         - 8147,9
TotIa-DI     cr                           - 3,109.6 1337,9 24.3  1,276.4  56,4  823.7 12MIC4            1367.1      9.221   654*3 12,143.4
II. Ecuair com
A. nMTIU NID IIAIIEI
1. CIVL EUS                         -   40.6    6.S  12        8 16.0  132*6  137.3   6.7         2537        203.1   197.9   6.7
2. 11N1U1                           -  113.2  122.5  12t.2  131.6  136*3  141*2   m.,              3115.1      239.4      3.4   m.9
S. FOUR-1*    .                     -   72.3 174.    73.4   30.5   83.3  S6o3   475*7               136.6      146.4   142.7   41.
4. PICK 9U    -                     -   14.3   1438  1S5.   IS.   16.5   17.1    4.1                36.9        290        2     "4.1
S. IIOT  cLCS                      -    4.4    4.6    4.3    5.0    5.1    5.3    293              11.5         9.0      U,    29.3
6. 3W(=3                            -    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3               -     1.2           05          0.4     0.4      1.2
7. EfUIET                           w    2.1   30.1   31.5   ThI3   "it    W.7   1646.              64.4        80.6    49.3   164.2
3. FUllltUtE                               -       -    1.4    3.4    3.6    3.7    14.1              1.4       11.3      1.4    14.1
Total OPEAIUg AMl IAIIM                -  252.3  3t1.7  3.5  3.0 41.   425.6 2,216.2                  36s50        M3     662.0 2,216.2
be MUVO                                -   40.3   41,7   44.0   44,3   46.4   4.1   26.3               51.3       137.5    26.5   265,3
ToEl E IT COSTS                           -  22.6  315.4  430.3  441.3  457.3  473.7 2431.6               916.3       36.6   6.  2,41.6
Tota                                       - 3M602A4 3,72.3 2,31.1 1.720.2 1413.6 1,297.3 14425.0        2763.4    10496.7 1362.9 1645.0
garO 6 I                                        - Mm1-                                                                       -
latch 6, 199 17:04



ANNE 3
-50-                                                  Tabre 7
3 ADESI
AICtLTURAL SUPORT SRViCES PROECT
Table 301. lI  D OMENT
Dtailed Cost Table
(TI '0003
Gantitv~
unit
Unit    91m  9293 93/94 94/95 9/96 96/97 97/98 Total Cast
t. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL MONtS
1. SEED PROC. I STORAGE SE        $68         -    O      -           -              550    7
Su-otal CIVIL VMS
b. TRAPR AND EQUIPEN
i. PICKUP                         No.         -    5    -    -    -    -    -    S78
2. SEDPROCESSINOEOIP.             No.          -    5    -    -    -    -    -    5  994
3. FARM  DNERY                    No.          -    5    -    -    -    -              5  837
4. LADEQWIPMN                     No.          -    5           -    -    -    -    S  314
. CNDITIONDB E0UIP.               No.          - ,        -    -    -    -    -    5732
6. OFFICE EQUIP T                 N.           -    S    -    -    -    -    -    S  235
7. FURNITURE                      No.          -    S    -    -    -    -    -    S   52
Sub-Total TRANST AND EUIMN
C. LOCAL SERVICES
1. CONTRAC RESRH                l              -    -    -    -    -    a    -
Sub-Total LOCAL SEICES
Total INESTH01T COSTS
TI. REOWET COSTS
A. OPERATION MNAIT.ELNCE
1. PICKWS                     OUI ahe        -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
2. CIVI   110N8 Wl                    se      -    -    a    a    -    -    -    a
3. so         INS EUIMT OY          I aui     -    - Ce-    -    -    -    a
4. FANO                       ON Charm              -    - -         -     -     -    -
S. LAD EUIWT                  ONlie           -    -    -    -    -    a    a    a
6. CO TmONIN E@UP)            OSNOge          -    a    -    a    -    -    -    -
7. OFMCEEQUIPNT               OUIDAN  ig      -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
8. FURIT(M                    OtlliavU           -        -    a           -    -      -
Sub-Total OATION AND MAINTEN
TotIl REC_RRT  CO
Total
Hatch 6, 199 17?04



- 51 -
ANEX 3
L ADESN                                       Table 8
AGRICtLTURAL SUPORT SERICES ROJECT
Table 301. SED DEG EM    t
Detailed Cost Table
(TK '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
91/92  2/93    93/94    4/95   95/96   96/97  97/98  Total
umummmmagamm4111aw ltaam  a.xmma           Sus,amn=   am
I. INETMNT COSTS
A. CIVIL MRS
I, SEED PROC. I STORWAE  O                  - 4,751.2        -       -      -       -       - 40751#2
Sub-Total CIVIL VMRS                           -  40751.2       -       -      -       -       - 46751.2
. TRANORT AND EQUIPMENT
1. PICK Up                                  -  4,634.9       -      -       -       -       - 4,64.9
2. SEED PR SINO EQUIP,                      - S870.8         -       -      -           -  - 5870.8
3, FARN MACINER                             -  4943.9        -      -       -       -       - 4943.9
4. LAD MIPE                                 -    54.0        -       -      -       -       - 1854.0
5. CONDITIONINS EQUIP                       - 4325.9         -       -      -       -       - 4,325.9
6. OFFICE EQUIPMENT                         - 1,390.5        -       -      -               -  1904.5
7 FURNITURE                                 -   315.5        -      -       -       -       -   315.5
Sub-Total TRANSPORT AND EOUIPMENT              - 23,335.4      -       _       _       _       - 23o335.4
C. LOCAL SERVICES
1l CONTRACT RESEARCH                        -  1,264.8  673.4  713.0         -      -       - 2,651.2
Sub-total LOCAL SERVICES                       -  1,264.8  673.4  713.0         -      -       - 2W6S1W2
Total INESThENT COSTS                             - 29t351.5  673.4  713.0         -      -       - 30e737.9
amama ammam  -    -  magma. mxamma --s  -
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
1. PICK  PS                                -   929.7  990.2 1,036.3 P111.4 1,178.5 1,249.3 6.495,4
2. CIVIL NOMES                             -   212,9  226.8  237.3  254.5  269.9  286.1  1M47O6
3S, ED PROCESSE  EQUIHEJ                 -   SN.8N  627.1  656.3  703.9   764   791.2 4,113*8
4. FARM t 1103Rf                           -   991.7 WSWU2 1,105.3 1W185.5 1,257.1 1,332.6 6,929.4
5. LA)DITlOI EPNT                          -    185.9  198.0  207.3  222.3   235.7  249.9  1#299l.
69 C EITONINUTQIP)                         -   433.9  462.1   43.6  518.6  550.0  583o0  39031.2
7, OFFICE EIPMNT                           -    139.5  148.5  155.4   166*7  176.8   137.4   974.3
Be FURNITURE                                        8 IS  16.3   17*8   189.    20.0   21t2   110,4
Sub-Total                              --   enlNnAD  mAe -Kei
Sub-Total OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE           - 3v498.2 3,725.7 3,899.2 4161.8 4,434.4 4,700.3 24,440.2
Total RECURRENT COSTSE- 334".2 3725.? 3,3".2 4,1318 4434.4 4.700, 249440,2
TOUI                                                 asmagatnou                        ltma*  *i a a .aa  _ _  .,_ _am   m
4- 32,4*6 4,3".1 4,612.3 4,131.8 4,434.4 4,700.8 55,17.81
March 6 IM 17:04



-52-                                                 ANNEX 3
Table 9
DANGLADESH
ARICULTURL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Tabl 301 SEED DEVELOPHENT
Detailed Cost Table
Breakdmm ot Totals Inel. Cant
(USS '000)
Totls Including Continguncgs
(USS '000)                               Locel
-              For. (Exel. Dutis t
91/92 92/93 9/M4 94/95 95s   W97 97/98 Total         Exch. Tim) TMs  Total
I. IMESTENT CosTS
A. CIVIL NOWKS
l. SE  PROC. I STORA0 SlD           - -  121.8                           121.8        23.6  86.0    12.2  121.8
Sub-Totl CIVIL  1KM                   - 121.8    -    -    -    -    -  121.8            2364  86.0    12.2  121.8
. TRANSPORT AND EOUI
1. PICK UP                         - 118.8    -    -    -    -    -  118.3            52.7  30.5    35.7  118.8
2. SEED PROCEUSIN  EQUIP            - 150.5    -                                      6 -    -    -  150.5  66.8  33.6    45.2  150.5
3. FARN NACHINERY                  - 126.8    -    -    -    -    -  126.8            56.2  32.5   33.0  126.3
4. LAD EGUIPEt                      - n475    -    -    -    -    -   47.5            21,1  12.2    14.3   4.5
5. CONDITIONINS EGUIP.             - 110.9    -    -    -    -    -   110.9           492  28.4    33.3  110.9
6# OFFICE EOUIPENr                  - 35.7    -    -    -    -    -   35,7            15.8    9.1        10.?   35.7
7, FURNITIE                        -  3.1    -    -    -    -    -    8.1              0.8   6.5      0.8    8.1
Sub-total TRNSPORNT AND EAUIPIET      - 593J3    -    -    -    -           -  598.3    262,6 157.8   177.9  598.3
C. LOCAL SERVICES
1. CONTRACT RESEARCH                - 32,4 16.3 17.3    -    -    -   670              3.2  60.4      3.4   67.0
Sub-Total LOCAL 8ERVICES               - 32,4  16.8  17.8    -    -    -   67.0           3.2  60.4      3.4   67.0
tol INVESTNENT COSTS                     - 752.6  16.3  17.8    -    -    -  7M7.2         239.5 3X4.3   193*4  787.2
--- -- mm    --- - mm  mm- mmm--                    mmssm  uuu 
Il. REfcr COST8
As ORTION AND AINTEMC
1. PICK wP                         - 23.3 24*7 25.8 26.5 27.S 28.5  156,8             61.5  48.3    47.0  156.3
2. CIVIL NOWK                      -  S55  57  5S9  6.1  6.3  6.S   35.9              14.1  11.1    10.8   35.9
3. SE    PfROCE ttlIN EWIHET       - 15.1  15.6 16.4  16TC  17.4  1.0   99,3          39.0  30.6    29.8    J.3
4. FUN NACHINERT                   - 25.4 26.3 27.6 28.3 29.3 30.4  167.3             60.6  51.5    50.2   167.3
so LAD EUl                         -  4.3  4.9  5.2  5.3  5.5  5.7   31.4             12.3   9.7?     94   31.4
6. CDTIONINO ElIm)                 - 111  11.5 12.1 12.4  12.8 13.3   73.2            28.7  22.5    22.0   73.2
7.  FFICE EOIPIENT                 -  3.6  3.7  3.9  4.0  4.1  4.3   235               9.2   7*2      7.1   23.5
3. FUINITUME                       -  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.5  0.5  0.5    2.7              0.3   2.1      0.3    2.7
SubTota OPERATION AMD AUENACE            3J9,7 9299 97.2 99.8 103,4 107.1   50.1        230.7 182.9   176.5  590.1
Total RECURRENT COSTS                     - 89.7 92.9 97.2 99.8 103.4 107.1  S90.          230.7 182.9   176.5  190.1
Tol                                       - 842.3 109.7 115.0 99. 103.4 107.1 1377.3        520.2  487.2   369,9 1.377,3
_m  mm mum mum ama, ..uin mm mua"=          u       suso     _      _         u
atdh 6. 1M   17W04



-53-                                                 ANNEX 3
BANGLADESH                                     Table 10
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Table 302. SEED DEVELOPMENT
Detailed Cost Table
(TK '000)
Ouantity
Unit
Unit    91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 95/96 96M9  97/98 Total Cost
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. SEED PROC. I STORAGE SED       sue          -   220    -    -    -    -    -  220    7
Sub-Total CIVIL VORKS
B. TRANSPORT AND EQUIPMENT
1. PICK UP                        No.          -     2    -    -    -    -        -    2705
2. SEED PROCESSING EQUIP.         No.          -     2    -    -    ^    -    -    2  994
3. FARM  CHINERY                  Not          -     2    -    -    -    -        -    2837
4, LAB EQUIPMENT                  No,          -    2    -    -    -    -         -    2  314
5. CONDITIONING EQUIP.            No.          -     2    -    -    -    -    -    2  732
6. OFFICE EQUIPENt                No.          -    2    -    -    -    -         -    2  235
7. FURNITURE                      No.          -    2    -    -    -    -    -    2   52
Sub-Total TRANSPORT AND EQUIPMET
C. LOCAL SERVICES
1. CONTRACT RESEARCH               u              -           -       -          -
Sub-Total LOCAL SERVICES
Total INVESTMENT COSTS
II. RECURRENt COSTS
A. OPERATIO1 AND NAINTENANCE
1. PICK UPS                   ON Chare        -     -             -    -    -          a
2. CIVILMO5S                  ODINWaul        -     -    -    -    -    -    -    -
3. SEEDW  EESSIBEIUIPENT   Otn Charie         -    -    -    a    a    -         -    -
4. FARN NAOIIERY              OSNOlate        -     -    -    -    -    -        -    -
5, LAB EOUIPIIENT             OS Charse       -     *    -    -    -    -    -         -
6. CoNDITIONN  EQUIP)         Ot Chars        -    -    -    -    -    *    -    -
7. OFFICE EUIPNEMT            OUI a C            -     -    -         -         -  C
8. FURhlNRE                   0IN Chare       -     -    -    -    -    -
Sub-Total OPERATION AND MAINTENAWCE
Total RECURRENT COSTS
Total
Harch 12v 1991 17:01



-54-                                           ANNEX 3
Table 11
BD£AN  SH
AGRICULTUIRAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Table 302. SEED DEVELOPMNt
Detailed Cost Table
(TK '000)
Totls Includirg Contingencies
91/92 92/93   9394  94/95  95/96  96/97  97/90  Total
Mma uumzzm masseum=xxx   -zaa                -   amum 
I. IMIESTDIMT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. SEED PROC. I STORAGE SHEI               - 1,900,5       -      -      -      -      - 1,900.5
Sub-Total CIVIL MOIUS                            1,900.5     -       -      -             - 1,900.5
I. TRASPORT AND EQUIPtENT
1. PICK UP                                 - 1.854.0      -       -      -      -      - 1854.0
2. SEED PROCESSING EQUIP.                  - 2,348.3       -      -      -      -       - 2,348.3
3. FAR MCHINERY                            -   P977.5     -       -      -      -      -    flw.5
4. LAD EUIPtENT                            -   741.6      -       -      -      -       _   741.4
5. CONDITIONIN EQUIP.                      - 1,730.4      -       -      -      -      - 130.4
6. OFFICE EQUIPMENT                        -   562         -      -      -      -       -   556.2
7. FURNITURE                               -   126.2      -       -      -      -      -   126.2
Sub-Total TRANSPORT AND EQUIPMET              - 9,334.2      -      -       -      -      - 9,334,2
C. LOCAL SERVICES
1, CONTRACT RESARCH                        - 1,264.8  6n.4  713.0        -      -       - 2,651.2
Sub-Total LOCAL SERVICES                      - 1,264.8  673.4  713.0       -      -         2,651.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                           - 12,499.5  673.4  713.0      -      -      - 13985.9
- s -# - -- - _
II. RECIRRET COSTS
A. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
2. IVCK UP s                                   371.9  396.1  414.5  444.6  471.4  499.7 2#598.2
2. CIVIL VMS"S                                  GM- 85.2   90.7    4.9  101.8  108.0  114.4   595*0
3. SEED PCINB E                            -   235.5  250.8  262.5  281.6  291.6  316.5 11645.5
4. FARD MACINERY                          -   396.7  422.5  442.1  474.2  50218  533.1 27M14
J. W  EUPIT ENTE                           -    74.4   79*2   82.9   88.9   94.3   99.9   519.6
6. CONDITIOIE E EQUI)                     - 173.5  184.1  193.4  207.5  220.0  233.2 1,212.5
. OFFICE EQUPENT                                S5    59.4   62.2   66 5 70         75.    389.7
-     6.3    6.7    7.1    7.5    8.0.   8.5    44.2
Sub-Total OPERTION NID AIVNTENANCE                      -             -        -       -      -
1- 1399.3 1,490.3 1P559.) 1,672.7 ,7M.8 1890.3 91776.1
Ttotl RECLOREN COSTS---                                             -       -      --
T  1399.3 1490.3 1,559.7 1672.7 177.M   1900.3 9,776.1
Total                                            -                   gamma~~~~~anos  ssom .-    21102
TotB1                                             - 13693.7 2163.7 2,272.7 19672.7 1,M.8 1,880,3 23462.0
-  smaa  muemim                      amammmssm
MIah 6 19t 1 I17:04



- 55 -                                              AINEX 3
BANGLADESH                                   Mbe1
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Table 302, SEED DEVELOPMENT
Detailed Cost Table
Bneakdoim ot Totals Incl, Cont
(USS '000)
Totals Including Continrmncin            --  - --  -
(USS '000)                             Local
For.  (Excl, Duties n
91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 95/96 96/97 97/9B Total  Exch.  Taxes)  Taxes   Total
ax    Mama Mamax  =amr rmaXa 2amm aammz ----   mam   mm..  amamm mamma
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. SEED PROC. I STORAGE SHED                48.7     -                          48.7      94    34,4        4.9  48.7
Sub-Total CIVIL VORKS                       -  48.7     -     -     -     -      - 48.7    9.5    34.4         4.9  48.7
B. TRANSPORT AND EUIPHENT
1. PItK UP                               -  47,5     -     -     -     -     -  47.5    21.1    12,2       14.3  47.5
2. SEED PROCESSINB EQUIP.                - 60.2      -     -    -       -     - 60.2    26.7    15.4       18.1 60.2
3. FARM MACHINERY                        -  50.7     -    -      -     -     -  50.7   22.5    13.0        15.2 50.7
4. LAD EQUIPWN                           -  19.0     -     -     -      -     -  19.0    8.4      4.9       5.7  19.0
5- CONDITIONING EQUIP.                   -  44.4 -         -     -     -     -  44.4    19.7    11.4       13.3  44U4
6. OFFICE EQUIPMENT                      -  14.3     -     -     -     -      -  14.3    6.3      3.7       4.3  14.3
7, FURNITURE                             -   3.2     -     -    -      -     -   3.2    0.3    2.6          0.3   3.2
Sub-Total TRANSPORT AND EQUIPMENT           - 239.3     -     -     -     -     - 239.3   105.1    63.1       71.2 239.3
C. LOCAL SERVICES
1. CONTRACT RESEARCH                     - 32.4  16.B 17.8       -      -     -  67.0    3.2   60.4         3.4 67.0
Sub-Total LOCAL SERVICES                    -  32.4  16.8  17.8     -      -     - 67.0      3.   60.4        3.4 67.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                         - 320.5  16.8  17.8      -     -     - 355.1   117.7  158.0       79.4 355.1
II. RECURRENt COSTS
A. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
1. PICK UPS                             -   9.5   9.9  10.3  10.6  11.0  11.4  62.7    24.6    19.3       18.8  62.7
2. CIVIL DORMS                          -   2.2   2,3   2.4   2.4   2.5   2.6  14.4    5.6       4.4       4.3  14.4
3. SEED PROCEESSIN  ElNUIPENT           -   6.0   6.3   6.5   6.7   7.0   7.2  39.7    15.6    12.2       11.9 39.7
4, FARN MACHINERY                       -  10.2  10.5  11.0  11.3  11.7  12.1  66.9    26.2    20.6       20.1  66.9
5. LAD EQUIPMENT                        -   1.9  2.0   2.1   2.1   2.2   2.3  12.5    4.9        3.9       3.8  12.5
6. cONDITIONING EQUIP)                  -   4.4   4.6   4,8  5.0   5.t   5,3  29.3    11.5    9.0          8.8  29.3
7. OfFICE EQUIPMENT                     -   1.4   1.5   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.7  9.4    3.7        2.9       2.9   9.4
8. FURNITURE                            -   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0,2   1,1    0o1       0.9       0.1   1.1
…-       -----   -   --  -- 
Sub-Totel OPERATION AD MAINT               -  35.9  37.2  38.9  39.9  41.3  42.8 236.0   92.3   73.2         70.6 236.0
---   -- --- -     ----   ------   -        -     --n-
Total RECURENT COSTS                           -  35.9  37.2  38.9  39.9  41.3  42.8 236.0   92.3   73.2         70?6 236.0
mammamaa mama. aass= mamma8 gMMa ma. max=. mamama aBaena= MUMMamnam  2aa
Total                                           - 356.4  54.0  56.7  39.9  41.3  42.8 591.l  210,0  231.1    150.0 591.1
Ma 191- - 17:04         -       -                 -        ------     - -     -
Ibrrh 6i 199 17:04



- 56 -                                              ANNEX 3
BANGLADESH                                 Table 13
AGRICULTtRtAL SUPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Table 303. SEED DEELO°P
Detailed Cost Table
(TK '000)
QntitY
~~~- - - - ~~~~~~~unit
unit    91/2 9293 93/94 94M  95/6 96/97 97/  Total Cost
=aaa*ua  R...          sua_   aa_ a.mm
l. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. SEED PROC. S STORMGE SED       s            -  220         -    -    -         -  220    7
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS
S. TRNPORT AND EOUIPIENt
.o PICK UP                        Not          -    2    -    --    -             -    2   M8
2. SEED PROCESSD6 EOUIP.          No.          -    2    -    -    -    -    -    2  994
3. FARM ACHfNERY                  No.          -    2    -    -    -    -    -    2  837
4. LAB EGUVPET                    No.          -    2    -    -    -        -    -    2   314
5. CONDITIONIN6 EQUIP.            No.          -    2    -    -    -        -    -    2  732
6. OFFICE EGUIPlENT               No.          "    2    -    -    -    -    -    2   235
7. FURNITURE                      No.          -    2    -    -    -    -    -    2   52
Sub-Total TRANST  D EUIPHENT
C. LOCAL SERVICES
1. CONTRAfc RESEARCH            luasumu        -    -    -    -    -    -    -          -
Sub-Total LOCAL SERVICES
Total INVESTMENT COSTS
II. RECURR£Nt COSTS
A. OPRATION AND MINTMNl CE
it PICK UPS                   OSI Charme      -    -    -            -          -   -
2. CIVILOWS                   OL4 Chare       -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
3. OPIEE   SINSU EOUIPt   T   OtM Chare       -    -    -    -    -    -         -    -
4. FARN NACHoER               osN Chare       -    -    -    -    -    -    -
S. LAB EQUIPNWEN              OUtahri         -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
6. CONDMCILU16 EUOIP)         OIN CharS       -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
7. OFFICE EGUIPNEN            ON Chartr       -    -    -    -    -    -    -          -
8. FURNITURE                  DI Chart"       -    -    -    -    -    -    -           -
Sub-Total OPERATION AND RAINHTENACE
Total RECULRENT COSTS
total
breh 12i 1991 17:01



- 57 -                                             ANNEX 3
Table 14
SANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJE U
Table 303, SEED DEVELOPNENT
betailed Cost Table
(TK '000)
Totals Including Contingenes
91m   92/93   93/94  94/95   95/96  96/97  97/98  Total
I. DINUEfl0fN C£Oi
A.-CIVIL IVMCS
1. SEED POCI. I STORASE SNE                        -  1*900.5       -       -       -       -      - 1*900.5
Sib-Total CIVIL MOS                                   -  1*900.5       -       -       -       -      - 1,900.5
t. TRANSPORT AND EUIOPHENT
1. PICK UP                                         -  1,854.0                                         1954.0
2. SEED PRCE6SSING EW*UP.                          - 2934U 3 4 8                    - 3            - 24348.3
3. FARN   CHINERY                                  -  1,977.5       -       -       -      -       - 1*9m.5
4. LAD EQUIPNEfT                                   -   741.6        -       -       -       -      -   741.6
S. CONDITIONINS EOUIP.                             -  1*730.4       -       -       -      -       - 1,730.4
6. OFFICE EQUIPENHT                                -   556.2        -       -       -       -      -   556.2
7. FURNITURE                                       -    126.2       -       -       -      -       -   126.2
Sub-Total TRANSPMRT AND EQUIPENT                     -  99334,2       -       -       -      -       - 9,334.2
C. LOCAL SERVICES
1. CONTuCT RESEARCN                                -  1#264.8  673.4  713.0         -       -      - 2.651,2
Sub-Total LOCAL SERNICES                              -  14264.8  673.4  713.0         -       -      - 2W6S1.2
toa I  NESTIENT COSTS                                    - 120M4.S  673.4  713.0          -      -       - 13,885.9
---------Wo - - -    -- ------num.
II. RECtURENT COSTS
A, OPERAnON AND NAINTEN
1. PICK UPS                                       -   371.9  396.1   414.5  444.6  471.4  499.7  2#599.2
2. CIVIL                                          -    85.2   90.7   94.9  101.8  108.0  114.4   595.0
3, SEED P9005118 EQJUIMENT                        -   235.5  250.8  262.5  281.6  29.6  316.5 1645.5
4. FARN "INERt                                    -   396.7  422.5   442.1   474*2  502.8  533.1  2*7.4
5S LAI EWUIPEN                                    -    74.4    79*2   82*9   88*9   94*3   99.9   519.6
6. CODITIONINB EOUIP)                             -    173.5   184.8   193.4  207.5  220.0  233.2  1*212,5
7. OFFICE EQUIPMENT                               -    55.8    59.4   62.2   66.7   70,7   75*0   389*7
8. FWTURE                                        -      6.3    6.7    7.1    7.5    8.0    8.5    44.2
Sub-Total OPERATIN AND AIN1TENANCE                      1*3N3 1*490.3 1,5597 1,7.7 17.8, 1*80803 9*776.
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                       13993 1*4904 1W5597 1,672*7 17M78 1,880.3 99776.1
Total                                                 mss*stssanncng UUZZcs 3333333   _3 3383233 ou
- 13M,87 2*16U7 272J7 1t672.7 1,l738 1980.3 23662.0
aidti 6* 1991 17:04



Table 15
AGRICILTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROECT
Table 303. 50 DEVELOPHENT
Detailed Cost Table
rekdamn of Totals Iml. Coant
(US. '000)
Totals Includlns Cantmtingnels
(USS '000)                          Local
For.  (Excl  Dutils a
91/92 92t93 93/4       9M5196 96/97 97/98 Total  Exc . Taxes)  Toxns  Total
it. NUESTHENT COSTS
A. CITVI VORKS
t. SEED PROC.  STORABE SED            - 48,7                              4 _    -    -    - 48.7    9.5   34.4  4.9  48.7
Sub-Total CITUL WOKSS                    - 48.7    _    _    _    -    - 48.7         .5   34A4       4.9  48U7
3. TRANSPORT AND EQUIPHIEN
'. PICK UP                              47.S    -    -    -    -    - 47.5   21.1   12.2          14.3 47.5
2, SEED PROCESSIN6 EOUIP.             - 60.2    -    -    -    -    - 60.2   26.7   13.4          18.1 60.2
3. FARM AHTNIERT                     - 50.7    -    -    -    -    - 30,7   22.5   13.0           15.2 50.7
4. W  EQUIPIWET                       - 19.0    -    -    -    -    - 19.0    8.4    4.9           5.7 19.0
S. CONITIONINS EQW                   - 44.4    -    -    -    -    - 44.4   19.7   11.4    .13.3 44.4
6. OFCE EQUIPI0T                     - 14.3    -    -    -    -    - 14.3    6.3    3.7            4.3 14,3
7. FURNITURE                         -3.2    -    -    -    -    -  3.2    0.3    2.6              0.3  3.2
- _- - - - - - - - - -
Sub-Total TRANSPORT ND EUIM T           - 239.3    -    -    -    -    - 239.3  105.1   63.1         71.2 239.3
C. LOCA  EICES
1. CONTRACT RESEARCH                  - 32.4 16.8 17.8    -    -    - 67.0    3.2   60.4           3.4 67.0
Sub-Total LOCAL SEWVICES                - 32.4  16.8 17.8    -    -    - 67.0    3.2   60.4           3.4 670
Total ?N'EST?ENT COSTS                     - 320,5 16.8 178    -    -    - 355.1  117.7  1S8.0          79.4 355.1
--0            --- x- aM=                     m =   m=m    swm  mnem
UI. RECEN cSm
A. OPEATIOnH AND NAINTENANCE
l. PICK WS                           -  9.5  9.9 10.3 10.6 110 11.4 62.7   24.6   19.3           18.8 62.7
2. MVIL IORlS                       -  2.2  2.3  2.4  2.4  2.5  2.6 14.4    5.6    4.4            4.3  14.4
3. SED PRiCESSIiD  EOUW   r          -  6.0  6.3  6*.5  6.7  7.0  7.2. 39.7   15.6   12.2         11.9 31.7
4, FARM MACHINERY                   - 10.2 10.5 11.0 11.3 11.7 12.1 66*9   26.2   20.6           20.1 66.
S. LAD EUIRIENT                      -  1.9  2.0  2.1  2.1  2.2  2.3 12.5    4.9    3.9           3.8 12.5
6. coNmoINIm     E PJaP)            -  4.4  4.6  4.8  5.0  5.1  S.3 29.3   11.5    9.0            8.8 29.3
7. OFFICE EQJPlENT     .             -  1.4  1.5  1.6  1.6  16  1.7  9.4    3.7    2.9            2.8  9.4
8. FaMIfTURE                        -  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  1.1    0.1    0.9            0.1  1.1
Sub-Total OPERATION AND  N1iTCE        - 35.9 37.2 38.9 39.9 41.3 42.8 2360   92.3   73.2           70.6 236.0
Total REClWEt COSTS                        - 35.9 37.2 38.9 3V.9 41.3 42.8 236.0   92.3   73.2          70.6 236,0
a--m    -  ---  ---   m nm    -M"    -~  -w               =mm 
Total                                       '356.4  54.0 56.7 39.9 41.3 42U. 591.1  210.0  231*1    150.0 591.1
March 6v 1991 17S04



AGRICLTIRL  1P03T SERVICES PROJECT
Table 401. A6RO-BUSESS KEaWUI
Mailed Cost Table
iTx '000)
nulih                                                     base Costs
unit
(hit   91m  92/93 93/94 94/  95/56 96/97 97/98 Total Cost 912 92/93    93/94   94/95   95/96  96m  97/90 Total
I. DIUESTI11 COSTS
A. PILT GRmT (U       )  1 us-                                                                18,257.5 18,257.5 18I257.5       -    -    - 54772.6
3. 631ff (lAllERTD TO LW)  lum           -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -                -       - 174648.2 69,859.3 69,859.3    -    - 314,366.8
Total IIIESTNE1T COSTS                                                                         - 184257.5 192,905*7 88,116.8 69,859.3    -    - 369139.4
_   _ - _    _   =~~_ __  so
Total                                                                                           - 181257.5 192,905.7 3,116.8 699859.3    -    - 369,139.4
Jarch 6. IM   17:04
Totals Including Comtiniewies
91/92 92/93    93/94    9495   95/96  96/7 97/98 Total
- ==  ___ =   = =
1.   EuW cOTSr
A. PILOT gIT (I_)                          - 21,433.6 22,629.8 23764.7        -    -    - 68,028.1
3.  M1  (CORTE3 TO LOM)                   -        - 2214069.5 924693.0 99,265.3    -    - 4134027.8
Total INEInT  OSTS                           - 219433*6 2439899.3 1169457.7 999265.3    -    - 481056.0
Total                                         - 21,433.6 243,999.3 116,457.7 9z265.3         - 48156.0
be. 12b 1m   17:01



MCIL L sNIf   SERVCES POT
Table 01. AD-IUSIS EVE          IT
btailed Coat Table
Bse costs in S
nm  9/93 934  941     9/   96/  97/YB Tot
m  _=  =m =m am 
I. I_/ cOT
A. PIN NW  UUA         )                       - 43.B  498.8  498.8         -    -    - 1s46.5
3. Wmn  (c TeI TO         )                    -    - 4.M       1.06B? 1,966.?7        - 8*,.3
Total uII mlSJJUI CnS                             - 4998, 5P270.6 2.407.6 1M6.      -    - 10.0s
-= =M  -  =  MM  =  -
- 498.8 5,270.6 2#4076 1,906J7          - 10u.8
2=   _ _ =             2CUMI
am am mm  mm am  am am              ~          ke*d  ofTaSii m
Toal  m of Totals ltt. Go
01$S 'NO)
Totals IntliiM  Clmtinci
(US$ '000)                                               L@al
(Ebcl.    is I
91/2 O       9W394   4/95  959           97/98 TOW                  Fom. Excb. Tsl  Tams   Total
=r mm =2m= am u= =m                                                              -  c    =,
1.            cOSM
.     OTStilO l t(ITAlH)              - 549.6  569.3  59264              -       1-7115                   1,350.2  355.4       - 1.711,5 o
3. WIT N WDI I3TE  TO LOe)            -     - 54513.0 24311,5 2,369.1    -    - 10193A.                   4993.2 5,210*4       - W10193.6 AI
hTz 4    MME  ITr Cos                      549.6 64U2*3 2.904*2 2,309.1    -    - 11,95.1                   6,339.3 555. 8          11,905.1      F' t
Total                                     - 549.6 6,062.3 2,904.2 2,369.1    -    - Ib9W.1                  6h339.3 5.5013           11,9O.1
Tsui  =;=m: am=:= a                           == a                            =m    == -



- 61                                                 ANU 3
Table 18
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Table 501* TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Detailed Cost Table
Quantity
------ - -       unit Cost
Unit    91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 95/96 96/97 97/98 Total    (TK)
:2a.:arn3   3"333 l    33333 33333 33-3 MP=  * 333  33333    333
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. TRANSPORT AND EGUIPMENT
1. FOUR-UHELL OR               No.          5    1    -    -    -    -    -    6    8470742
2. EQUIPMENT                   No.          5    S      -    -    -    -    -   10    183.154
Sub-Total TRANSPORT AND EQUIPMENT
B. FOREIGN SERVICES
1. EXTENSION NGT ( DAE)      manonth        9    12   12   12    -    -    -   45    657t262
2. TRAINING COORD            unoonth        9    12   12   12    -    -    -   45    657,262
3. IRR16ATION NOT             amooth        3    12   12    9    -    -    -   36    657D62
4. SEED IND. GT              "nMonth        3    12   12   12    -    -    -   39           37.262
3. DREDER SED EXP.( (OA)   ununth           -    12    -    -    -    -    -    12    657M262
6o SORT TERN                 mmonth         9   28   22    3    -    -    -   62    157262
Sub-Total FOREIGN SEICES
C. LOCAL SERVICES
1., HIESTEAD PRODWCTION      lum            1    2    2    2    -    -    -    7 22.286.416
2. OTHER LOCAL SERVICES      munonth       18   34   34    8    -    -    -   94            54344
Sub-Total LOCAL SERVICES
Total INVESTMENT COSTS
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. FOUR-EL DR.                0h chhate       1  '^2   1.2  1.2      -    -    -   4.6  1.045.957
Do EUIPIENT                   Omf charts      1    2    2    2    -    -    -    7    - 95.S06
C. OTER OETIN6 EXPSES          lu u           1    3  2.5  1.5       -    -    -    8   1.751.02
Total RECURRE  COS
Total
tarch 12. 1991 17:01



- 62 -                                              ANNEX 3
Table 19
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Table 501. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Detailed Cost Table
Totals Including Contingencies
(TK '000)
91/92    92/93    93/94      94/95   95/6 96 /97 97/98  Total
--:3=:: :333338 33zu3::         33u   :     w3Sa   ,--3.   sa33=3m
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
_ _ _ _ . _
A; TRANSPJRT AND EQUIPMENT
1. FOUR-UHELL DR                           4,592.5    987.0                                          5479.5
2. EQUIPHENT                                M9.2  1.066.2            -         -    -    -    -  2p058.4
Sub-Total TRANSPORT AND EQUIPMENT             5,584.7  2,053,2          -         -    -    -    -  7,637.9
Be FOREIGN SERVICES
1. EXTENSION NGT ( DAE )                   6,409.1   9,182.7  9,781.6  10,133.7    -       -    -  35,507.1
2. TRAINING COORD.                         6,409.1   9,182.7  9,781.6  10,133.7      -    -    -  35,507.1
3. IRRIGATION NOT                          2.136#4  9,182,7  9,781.6   7,600.3    -    -    - 28,701.0
4. SEED IND. NGT                           2,136.4  9,182.7  9,781.6  10,133.7       -    -    -  319234.4
5. BREEDER SEED EXP. (MnA)                       -   9,182,7         -          -     -    -    -  9,182.7
6. SHORT TERN                              6,409.1  21,426.3  17,932.9   26533.4     -    -    -  48.301.8
Sub-Total FOREIGN SERVICES                   23,499.9  67.339.8  57t059.4  409535.0    -    -    - 1880434.1
C. LOCAL SERVICES
1. HOMESTEAD PRODUCTION                    25,095.2  53.944.4 57,442.8  60A819.4      -    -    - 197,301.9
2. OTHER LOCAL SERVICES                    1.101.5  2.236.2  2,381.2       593.2     -    -    -   6P312.1
Sub-Total LOCAL SERVICES                     26,196,7  56,19806  59,824.0  61.412.6     -    -      - 203,614.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                          55,281.3 125,573.7 116,883.4 101,947.6     -    -    - 39685.9
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. FOU-WRE  DR.                               1,152.0   1,485.7   15823   1,654.8       -    -    -  5,874.9
P. EQUIPMENT                                    105.6    227.1    241.8    253.1        -    -    -    827.6
C. OTHER OPERAiiN9 EXPENSES                   1.931.8   6.228.3  5,527.9   3t471.0      -    -    -  17f159.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                             3,189.5   7941.0   7.352.0   5.378.9      -    -    - 23,861.5
Total                                             58,470.8 133,514.7 124,235.4 1079326.5     -    -    - 423,547.5
March 6isg 1::1 17: 04.          s        .        x
March 6t Mw 17:04



- 63 -                                                  ANNE.X  3
Table  20
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Table 501. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Detailed Cost Table
Breakdown of Totals Incl. Cant
(USS '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)                                   Local
---------- -------------------------------         ---               Exel. Duties 1
91/92   92/93  931/94   94/95 95/96 96/97 97/98 Total   Fort Exchd Taxes)  Taxes   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. TRANSPORT AND EQUIPMENT
1. FOUR-MELL DR                122.1   25.3       -       -    -    -    -   147.4          147.4      -        -   147.4
2. EQUIPNENT                   26,4   27.3        -       -    -    -    -    53,7           53,7      -        -    53,7
Sub-Total TRANSPORT AND EGUIPJEN1 148.5   52.6       -       -    -    -    -   201*2         201*2       -        -   201.2
B. FOREIGN SERVICES
1 EXTENSION MST C DAE )        170.5  235.5  243.9  252*7    -    -    -   9026            902.6       -        -   902.6
2. TRAININ6 CDOWD.            170.5  235.5  243.9  252.7    -           =      902.6        M26        -        -    02+6
3* IRRIGATION NOT              56.8  235.5  243,9  1895              -    -   7257         725.7       -             725.7
4. SEED IND. NIOT              56.8  235.5  243.9  252.7    -    -    -   788,9             788.9      -        -   788.9
5. BREEDE;t SEED EXP. (MICA)      -  2355         -       -    -    -    -   235.5         235.        -        -   235,5
6. SHORT TERN                 170,5  549.4  447,2   63U2    -    -    - 1,230,2           1,230.2      -        -  1,230.2
Sub-Total FOREIGN SERVICES       625.0 1,726.7 1,422.9 19010.8    -    -    - 4,785.4       4i785.4       -        - 4i785.4
C. LOCAL SERVICES
1. HOMESTEAD PRODUCTION       667.4 1,383.2 10432.5 1516.7    -    -    - 4999.8          239.3 4,510.5   250.0 4oM98
2. OTHER LOCAL SERVICES        29.3   57,3   59.4   14.8    -    -    -   160,8              7.7  1450        8.0   160.8
Sub-Total LOCAL SERVICES         696.7 1o440.5 19491.9 1,531.5    -    -    - 5160.6          247.1 4,655.5   258.0 5S160.6
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            1,470#2 3,219.8 2,14.8 2.S42,3    -    -    -10,l147.2       5,233.7 4,655.5   258.0 10.147.2
322-22--2--3--333---3----   33--2-- 22- 3-323 3332322 3-23322 2: a2  3222323322322
I  RECUUENT COSTS
A. FOURH        DR.              30.6   38.1   39*5   41.3    -    -    -   149.5             88.0   61.4         -   149.5
B. EOUIPMNT                       28    5S8       6,0    6.3    -    -    -    21,0            8.2    6.        6.3    21.0
C. OTHER OPERATING   E I         51.4  159.7  137,9   86.6    -    -    -   435.5            170.9  133.9   130.6   435.5
Total RECIIIREt COSTS                84.8  203.6  183.3  134.1    -    -    -   605.9            267.2  201.8   136*9   659
Tot-l                              1,555l 3,423,5 3,098.1 2.676.5    -    -    - 10753.1        5,500.9 4,657.3   395.0 10,753.1
322333  -2   3          232253- 32223 " 32333_3  _3323233 3332  233222
arch 6, 1991 17S04



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Sensitivity Analysis
ERR       Adopter Area    Incrementel   Switching Values of ERR a/        ERR It
Production
Benet It    Coctr        enef Ito Log  Costs
M(Dcroase)   (Increase)   by 8 sears  Increase
1        '000 ha       '000 t   X b/        2            2           2            1
12          39.9         35.5    .02        -            -           -            _
20          64.8         57.7    .04       40           67          14           13
30         133.4        118.7    .72       62         163           19           22
50         323.1        287.5   1.75       78         345           28           37
a/  Bringing ERR to 12Z.
b/  Percent of total food grain production of Bangladesh in 1988 of about
16.4 million tons.



- 65 -
BANGLADESH                           ANNEX 4
Table 2
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Assumptions for Economic Sensitivity Analysis
(in million Taka)
Year            Total              Benefits as           New Adopter Area as
Proiect Cost a/       Z of Ultimate b/      Z of Ultimate Area c/
1               79.18                     -                         -
2              308.04                   0.7                      3.6
3              399.63                   2.8                     10.7
4              240.19                   7.0                     21.4
5              179.77                  14.1                     35.7
6              118.10                  24.7                     53.6
7               91.91                  38.9                     75.0
8               30.00                  56.7                    100.0
9               30.00                  72.5                    100.0
10              30.00                  85.5                    100.0
11              30.00                  95.0                    100.0
12-25           30.00                 100.0                    100.0
ai Economic costs as per Costab.
bI The build-up of benefits depends on the area under food grains which new
adopters cultivate and on the speed of adoption among the adopters. In the
sensitivity analysis the area is the variable; per unit values of benefits
and costs are applied to it. The area build-up follows the pattern shown in
the last column of the table. As to the speed of adoption, each adopter is
assumed to develop his/her skill to full level over a period of 5 years.
The ultimate physical benefits, increased rice and wheat production, are
based on expected increases in yields for (i) irrigated aman from 2 t/ha to
2.5 t/ha, (ii) irrigated boro from 4.16 t/ha to 5 t/ha, (iii) rainfed aman
from 1.66 t/ha to 2 t/ha, and Civ) rainfed wheat from 1 t/ha to 1.25 t/ha.
Qutput prices are shown in Table 3. Costs are assumed to build up over time
at the same rate as yields. Greater efficiency in input use is expected to
lower per unit costs by 15Z at full development, i.e. at year 5 of the
adoption cycle.
c/ Irrigated land is assumed to constitute 60X of the new adopter area, rainfed
land 402. It has been assumed also that irrigated land would be used for
irrigated boro and irrigated aman; rainfed land would be used for rainfed
aman and rainfed wheat.



- 66 -
BANGLADESH                           ANNEX 4
Table 3
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Economic Prices for Rice and Wheat at Import Parity
(January 1991)
Rice        Wheat
...... US$/t  ..
Projected 199512000 Value FOB Source 1/          247          153
Quality Factor                                  0.80         0.90
Adjusted FOB Value                               198          137
Freight/Insurance 21                              39           72
Value CIF                                        227          209
...... Tk/t  ...
Value CIF 3/                                    7992         7294
Port dues, Handling 4/                          1160         1160
Handling, Transport, Storage 5/                  338          336
Distribution/Collection 6/                       500          500
Farm Gate Price                                 9990         9290
......Tk/kg......
10.0          9.3
21 As per World Bank Pice Projections, January 1990.
1995 projections in const. 1985 dollars are inflated to January 1991
values by index of international inflation of 1.47.
Price bases Rice: Thai, 5Z broken, FOB Bangkok;
Wheat: Canada; No. 1 Western Red Spring, Thunder Bay
2/ Between Source and Bangladesh Port.
3/ US$1 - Tk 34.9
4/ Tk 1450 x SCF 0.8
5/ Between port and wholesale store.
Average of 300 km at 1.4 Tk/t/km x SCF 0.8
6/ Between wholesale level and farmgate.



- 67 -                               ANNEX 5
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year       Semester    Disbursements        Disbursements
-USS million----------
1992                   I               -                   -
II              0.1                 0.1
1993                    I              3.8                 3.9
II              3.8                 7.7
1994                    I              5.6                13.3
II              5.6                18.9
1995                    I              3.0                21.9
II              3.1                25.0
1996                   I               2.7                27.7
II              2.7                30.4
1997                    I              1.3                31.7
II              1.3                33.0
1998                    I              1.0                34.0
II              1.0                35.0



- 68 -
ANNEX 6
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
1. Report on Agricultural Training
2. Report on Agricultural Extension Services for Women in Bangladesh
3. Report on Seed Sector Development
4. Memorandum of Association of the Foundation
5. Articles of Association of the Foundation
6. An Environmental Assessment of Four Agriculture Projects in Bangladesh



4;4gXS HA RG 0IA                                                             BAGLDESH
>#cR >   W  <                                      ~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT
5tS  Jl  >\  >                              ~~~~~~SERVICES PROJECT
/ a                             *                              Aqrkollge-I T.in;ngInsgitl.          Upaio Hwdq.o.92s
~~~  ,4.            -                                                          *   D~~~~~~~~~~CRD  ig Hedqaaa,tg
'<  ,rDJ  P R      --                                    m   BongIodhB Ag,ri..lt..IUnivUsify  0   Noliool Capiol
*g; Jz--- Upozilo Boundondi
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P A ) -
2r               T                                                                                                          25#
NA    N                                                                                I
flta~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
s- \ j- :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Irr                                                I   i)   D  I   A\2 
INDIA                                                                                              I
S..                                                                                                                        21
IaJ



