Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 25895
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 2233-BD)
AND
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2815-BD)
May 6, 2003
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department
This document will be disclosed to the public following its presentation to the Board of Executive Directors
of the World Bank. Its contents may not be disclosed before that time without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Taka (Tk)
1990            US$1.00          Tk34.9                   1995/96         US$1.00          Tk41.0
1992/93          US$1.00         Tk39.3                   1996/97         US$1.00          Tk42.7
1993/94         US$1.00          Tk39.3                   1998            US$1.00          Tk45.0
1994/95         US$1.00          Tk40.3                   2001            US$1.00          Tk57.0
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB              Asian Development Bank                   FAO/CP           Food and Agriculture Organization/
ADP              Annual Development Program                               World Bank Cooperative Programme
(Development Budget)                      FINA            Farmer Information Needs Assessment
ARI              Agricultural Research Institute                           Project
ARMP             Agricultural Research Management         FRI              Fisheries Research Institute
Project                                  FRR              Financial rate of return
ASIRP            Agricultural Services Innovation and     FSR              Farming Systems Research
Reform Project                            GB               Governing Board
ASSP             Agricultural Support Services Project    GDP              Gross Domestic Product
ATI              Agricultural Training Institute          GOB              Government of Bangladesh
BADC             Bangladesh Agricultural Development      Hortex           Horticultural Export Development
BARC             Bangladesh Agricultural Research                          Foundation
Council                                   ICR              Implementation Completion Report
BARI             Bangladesh Agi icultural Research        IDA              International Development Association
Institute                                 IPM              Integrated Pest Management
BAU              Bangladesh Agi icultural University      IRR              Internal rate of return
BB               Bangladesh Bank                          ISNAR            International Service for National
BFRI             Bangladesh Forest Research Institute                      Agricultural Research
BJRI             Bangladesh Jute Research Institute       MOA              Ministry of Agriculture
BLRI             Bangladesh Livestock Research            MTR              Mid-Term Review
Institute                                 NAEP            New Agricultural Extension Policy
BRAC             Bangladesh Rural Advancement             NARS             National Agricultural Research System
Committee                                 NGO             Nongovernmental organization
BRRI             Bangladesh Rice Research Institute       NPV              Net present value
BSRI             Bangladesh Sugyarcane Research           PETRRA           Poverty Elimination Through Rice
Institute                                                  Research Assistance
BSU              Bieeders Seed Unit                       PIU              Project Implementation Unit
CERDI            Central Extension Resources              PP               Project Performance
Development Institute                     REA              Revised Extension Approach
CGIAR            Consultative Group on International      SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
Agricultural Research                     SDR              Special Drawing Rights
CRP              Contract Research Program                T&V              Training and visit
DAE              Department of Agricultural Extensio,n    TA               Technical assistance
DFID             Department for International             TAT              Technical Assistance Team
Development                               USAID            U.S Agency for International
DTW              Deep Tubewells                                            Development
ERR              Economic rate of return
Fiscal Year
Government: July I to June 30
Director-General, Operations Evaluation                    :  Mr. Gregory Ingram
Acting Director, Operations Evaluation Departmrent            Mr. Nils Fostvedt
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation                       Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager     __                                           Mr. Ridley Nelson



The World Bank
Washington, D C 20433
USA
GREGORY K INGRAM
Office of the Director-General
Operabons Evaluation
May 6, 2003
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Performance Assessment Report on the Bangladesh Agricultural Support
Services Project (Credit 2233-BD) and the Bangladesh Agricultural
Research Management Project (Credit 2815-BD)
Attached is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Bangladesh Agricultural
Support Services Project (ASSP; Credit 2233-BD) and the Bangladesh Agricultural Research
Management Project (ARMP; Credit 2815-BD). The ASSP, cofinanced by a DFID US$14.7 million
grant, was approved June 17, 1991, for SDR 24.4 million (US$35 million equivalent) and closed June 30,
1998, on schedule with US$11.2 cancelled. The ARMP was approved February 8, 1996, for SDR 33.6
million (US$50 million equivalent) and closed on schedule in December 31, 2001with $1.9 million
canceled.
The main objective of the Agriculture Support Services Project (ASSP) was to increase
agricultural production, especially in food grains, and initiate a diversification process aimed at the
introduction of high-value export crops. This was to be achieved through support for institutional reform,
upgrading extension training, enhancing the availability of improved seeds, improving the efficiency of
public services, and promoting crop diversification and agribusiness. The main components were
technology transfer (including support for extension staff), training, seed industry improvement,
homestead production, agribusiness, and technical assistance. The main objective of the Agricultural
Research Management Project (ARMP) was to increase the efficiency of the national agricultural
research system and thereby generate profitable, relevant, and sustainable agricultural technologies by
strengthening the capacities of the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) in research
organization and management, including better research resource allocation; supporting priority research;
and strengthening research linkages to extension through participatory farming systems research. The
main components were: research management and organization, priority research (on crops, fisheries,
livestock, and forestry) and participatory farming systems research.
Overlapping for about two years, but with research coming later, the two projects were only
partially linked temporally but, within the series of projects, substantially linked thematically.
In ASSP, outcome is rated moderately satisfactory. An important change of extension direction
was undertaken and the objectives of increased productivity and diversification appear to have been
partly achieved, although the data are weak. Relevance is rated high. Efficacy is rated modest. A new and
quite promising group and demand-based extension system based on demonstrations was put in place but
there were a number of weaknesses. Efficiency is rated modest. There are a number of uncertainties
related to allocation of overhead costs and limited attributable impact data. Institutional development is
rated substantial. Shifting from the training and visit extension system to the new approach was an
important change. Bank performance was satisfactory. The shift in approach was partly attributable to
Bank experience. While initial supervision was weak, the Mid-Term Review resulted in a number of
sound adjustments. Borrower performance is rated, on balance, satisfactory, but there were significant



2
weaklesses particularly in the early years. Sustainability is rated non-evaluable due to a number of
uncertainties about the future. Operating funds have fallen since the project closed. However, extension,
calling mainly for salaries and training funds and being more flexible, is somewhat less vulnerable than
research. Currently, the follow-on Agricultural Services Innovation and Reform Project (ASIRP) has
consolidated a number of activities initiated under ASSP, but the future after that is uncertain.
In ARMP, outcome is rated moderately unsatisfactory largely because there were substantial
shortcornings in the achievement of the main objective of improving efficiency, much of it in the overdue
area of institutional reform. Relevance is rated high. Efficacy is rated modest due to concerns about the
extent to which the main stated objective of improved efficiency was achieved. Efficiency is rated
modest for similar reasons. Institutional development in the ARMP is rated, at best, modest, in agreement
with the ICR. The "deep institutional reform" believed at preparation to be needed did not occur. Process
changes had to partly make up for failure to put in place more fundamental reforms. Bank performance is
rated, on balance, unsatisfactory, although there were a number of satisfactory aspects related to
technical research and improved processes. Through preparation, the files show a story of progressive
retreat from very sound earlier analyses. Necessary, well understood, and originally sought deep refonn
was given up too readily. Borrower performance is rated, on balance, satisfactory, but there were
significant weaknesses. Sustainability is rated unlikely for ARMP against the ICR rating of likely. With
the closing of the project, research is now starved for funds making it difficult to make full use of
project-trained staff. The recurring issue from earlier projects of financial sustainability was not
adequately addressed during appraisal.
The main findings and lessons, which are largely consistent with findings on research and
extension in other countries, are,first, that the lessons of previous projects and the diagnosis of
constraints emerging during preparation should lead to a set of reforrns identifying the minimum for an
effecti-ve and efficient project which should be clearly articulated in the evolving Bank management
documentation. Second, adoption of new unified national extension approaches should be based on
evaluated cost-effectiveness data, but it pays to maintain experimentation with alternative approaches to
further pursue cost-effectiveness. Third, cutting research costs by institutional rationalization-generally
closing of stations-is politically difficult but too seldom faced by either the borrower or the Bank.
Fourth, Bank Project Appraisal Documents should include a thorough analysis of projected financial
sustainability in the post-project period; too frequently the focus is only on funding during the project.
Fifth, startup workshops and intensive early supervision with a focus on procurement can reduce
implenientation delays. Borrower institutions that have implemented Bank projects before still may have
inadequate procurement experience due to high staff turnover. Sixth, the level and rate of introduction of
computerized management systems needs to be carefully matched to the current and realistically
projecled computer skills and technical support capacity.
Attachment                                         //                  (



OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes first, to
ensure the integnty of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is producing the expected results,
and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the dissemination of lessons drawn from
experience As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of the Bank's lending operabons In selectng
operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to
upcoming studies or country evaluations, those for which Executive Directors or Bank management have requested
assessments, and those that are likely to generate important lessons The projects, topics, and analytical approaches selected
for assessment support larger evaluation studies
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion Report (a
self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED To prepare PPARs, OED staff
examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit the borrowing country for
onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries The PPAR thereby seeks to validate and augment the information
provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader OED studies
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval Once cleared internally, the PPAR is
reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary The completed PPAR is then sent to the
borrower for review, the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive
Directors After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work The
methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or sectoral
approach OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings Following is the definition and
rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website
http.//worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage html)
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's current
development prionties and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in
Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies) Possible
ratngs. High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into account
their relative importance Possible ratings. High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity
cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to altematives Possible ratings High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible
This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations
Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time Possible ratings Highly Likely, Likely, Unlikely,
Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region to make
more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through (a) better definition,
stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b) better alignment of the
mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these institutional arrangements Institutional
Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a project Possible ratings High, Substantial, Modest,
Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be achieved,
efficiently Possible ratings Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and supported
implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements for regular operation
of the project) Possible ratings Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure quality of
preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, toward the achievement of development
objectives and sustainability Possible ratings Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory



Contents
Fiscal Year .................................2
Principal Ratings .................................v
Key Staff Responsible .................................v
Preface ................................                                                           vii
1. Background .................................1
Project Design ..............................................................1..........................................
Project Objectives and Components ......2. .                         2
2. Analysis                                             .3
Relevance                                      .3
Outcome of the Two Projects                             .3
Institutional Development .................................................................................... 12
Bank Performance ......                                                           15
Borrower Performance ...............1... ................................................................ 16
Sustainability ........1... ............................................................... 16
Lessons ........................................................................ .......19.............................. 19
Future Directions .......                                                         19
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet .......                                                                  21
Annex B: Brief Summary of Extension Impact Study Findings .25
Annex C. Comments from the Borrower .27
Annex D: Comments from the Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock, Planning and Evaluation Wing
................................................................................................................................................. 31
Annex E: Comments from the Ministry of Agriculture .35
This report was prepared by Ridley Nelson (Task Manager). The report was peer reviewed by G. T.
Keith Pitman and edited by William Hurlbut. Helen Phillip provided administrative support.



v
Principal Ratings
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 2815-BD)
ICR                       ES                    Assessment
Outcome                           Satisfactory             Satisfactory        Moderately Unsatisfactory
Institutional Development           Modest                   Modest                    Modest
Impact
Sustainability                      Likely                   Unlikely                  Unlikely
Borrower Performance              Satisfactory             Satisfactory              Satisfactory
Bank Performance                  Satisfactory             Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT (CREDIT 2233-BD)
ICR                       ES                   Assessment
Outcome                           Satisfactory             Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory
Institutional Development          Modest                  Substantial                 Modest
Impact
Sustainability                      Likely                    Likely                Non-Evaluable
Borrower Performance              Satisfactory             Satisfactory              Satisfactory
Bank Performance                  Satisfactory             Satisfactory              Satisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational
division of the Bank. The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate OED product that seeks to
independently verify the findings of the ICR.
Key Staff Responsible
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 2815-BD)
Task Manager             Division Chief  ____Country Director
Appraisal                        John McIntire              Ridwan Ali            Pierre Landell-Mills
Midterm                         Robert Epworth             Ridwan Ali              Frederick Temple
Completion                      Robert Epworth             Ridwan Ali              Frederick Temple
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT (CREDIT 2233-BD)
Task Manager             Division Chief            Country Director
Appraisal                       Ross Wallace             Chaim Helman              Groves (Acting)
Midterm                         Robert Epworth             Ridwan Ali             Pierre Landell-Mills
Completion                       Abdul Ghani               Ridwan Ali              Frederick Temple



vii
Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Bangladesh Agriculture
Support Services Project (Credit 2233-BD), for which a credit in the amount of SDR 24.4 million
(US$35 million equivalent) was approved on June 17, 1991, and the Bangladesh Agricultural Research
Management Project (Credit 2815-BD), for which a credit in the amount of SDR33.6 million (US$50
million equivalent) was approved on February 8, 1996. US$14.7 million cofinancing was provided in the
former project by ODA (now DFID). An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was submitted for the
Agriculture Support Services Project on December 30, 1998 (Report no. 18757) and for the Agricultural
Research Management Project on June 24, 2002 (Report no. 24349).
The PPAR was prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) based on the
Implementation Completion Reports, the appraisal reports, the Development Credit Agreements, review
of Bank files, and an assessment mission to Bangladesh in October 2002. The project was also discussed
with Bank staff, beneficiaries, government staff at all levels, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs),
and other donors. The cooperation and assistance of all stakeholders and government officials, especially
DAE and BARC, is gratefully acknowledged, as is the support of the staff of the World Bank Country
Office in Dhaka.
The main rationale for selecting these two projects for evaluation was to assess the performance
of research and technology dissemination projects as a complementary pair. The assessment provided an
opportunity to look at both together, to assess them against the lessons of a series of projects supporting
agricultural technology and to investigate the sustainability aspects. It was considered particularly
important to assess the Agriculture Support Services Project because it was reported to have been
innovative and because it appeared to be a redirection following disappointment with the earlier training
and visit extension approach and therefore to have lessons for extension elsewhere.
Following standard OED procedures, the draft PPAR was sent to the borrower for comments
before being finalized. Borrower comments have been taken into account, and are included as Annex C.



1.     Background
1.1    About half the Bangladesh population of 130 million is poor. Agriculture accounts for about one-
third of GDP, about two-thirds of employment, and 15 to 20 percent of commodity export earnings. The
major agricultural challenge is to increase productivity from a land resource already very intensively
used. Arable land covers about 55 percent of the national land area and, because Bangladesh is one of the
most densely populated countries in the world, there is almost no possibility to increase cultivated area.
Intensification is primarily through irrigation and flood control and almost all available potential is fully
utilized There are about 14 million farm households of which
about half are landless. Of great significance to agricultural  The major agricultural
production is the extreme of seasonal monsoon flooding, which  challenge in Bangladesh is to
may cover 50 percent of land, followed by a nine-month dry  increase productivity from a
season. With land use intensification over recent years the  land resource already very
marginal returns to fertilizer have fallen from the levels of the  intensively used.
mid-1980s. The heterogeneity of agriculture is a major challenge
for agricultural technology development and dissemination. There are 30 identified agro-ecological zones
with different soil types, water management needs, and different hot, warm, and cold seasons.
1.2    Agriculture output value grew at 1.7 percent in 1990 to 1995 and 5.1 percent in 1996 to 2000.
Per capita food grain supply rose through the 1980s and 1990s and real prices fell with significant
impacts on1 poverty alleviation. Rice is still the most important crop, with about 42 percent of farms
growing only rice, but diversification has increased. Fisheries contribute about 15 percent of agricultural
GDP, livestock about 11 percent, and forestry about 10 percent. With particular relevance to the
Millernium Development Goals, about two-thirds of children under the age of five are malnourished.
1.3    The government's agricultural policy aims to stimulate growth to increase rural incomes, reduce
poverty, and improve food security. This is to be achieved through continued liberalization to improve
the climate for private investment, targeted interventions for poverty alleviation, investment in human
capital and infrastructure, and investment in the generation and dissemination of improved technology to
raise productivity.
Project Design
1.4    The Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) and Agricultural Research Management
Projecr. (ARMP) both presented challenging institutional issues arising partly from the past checkered
history of project interventions in the sector. This included the Extension and Research Project I (Cr.
729-BD), approved in 1977, establishing the training and visit (T&V) system of extension; Agriculture
Research I Project (AR I; Cr. 828-BD), approved in 1978; the Second Agriculture Extension and
Research Project (AER II; Cr. 1215-BD), approved in 1982; and the Agriculture Research IT Project (AR
I; Cr. 14 55-BD) in 1984. OED evaluated the latter three, finding outcome marginally satisfactory in
ARI, unsatisfactory in AR II, and marginally satisfactory again in AER II. All three were rated modest on
institutional development and uncertain for sustainability.
1.5   Issues identified by previous OED evaluations included poor development of the Bangladesh
Agricultural Research Council (BARC) functions, concerns about quality of technology developed and
disseminated, financial sustainability, and efficiency in research. And, related to sustainability, concerns
about the scale of both the extension and research service. Many of these issues remain. Main lessons
identifiecl for ASSP during project preparation were that T&V had failed to develop fully a
commnuniucations linkage due to weak technical messages, skill limitations, and difficulties in maintaining



2
sufficient contact farmers, and that there was a need to expand extension options by using more
demonstrations, working with groups, and increasing media campaigns. Main lessons identified for
ARMP during project preparation were that BARC had no influence on resource allocation outside the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and that, even within MOA, BARC had little power to influence the two
largest research institutes. Also, BARC's organizational structure had proved to be functionally
unproductive. Moreover, there had been a negative attitude toward using commercial crop varieties and
recommending technology generated in other countries with similar agro-ecological conditions. The two
projects being assessed followed the above series of projects but with only partial overlap between ASSP
and ARMP, with the ASSP leading ARMP by five years and overlapping for three years (1996 - 1999).
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
1.6    The main objective of the Agriculture Support Services Project (ASSP) (1992 - 1999) was to
increase agricultural production, especially in food grains, and initiate a diversification process aimed at
the introduction of high-value export crops. This was to be achieved through support for institutional
reform aimed at making technology transfer more responsive to the needs of farmers and more widely
available (especially to women), upgrading extension training, improving the availability of improved
seeds through the participation of private seed companies, removing restrictive seed regulations,
improving the efficiency of public services, and promoting crop diversification and agribusiness. There
were six components:
*      Technology Transfer aimed at improving the efficiency of outreach and increasing coverage
(US$16.0 million - 32 percent of project costs)
*      Training of Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE) staff and farmers (US$12.0 million -
24 percent of project costs)
*      Seed Industry Improvement aimed at improving the production of breeder's seed of rice, wheat,
and jute (US$2.2 million - 4 percent of project costs)
*      Homestead Production to demonstrate on-farm and homestead activities for women (US$4,3
million - 9 percent of project costs)
*      Agribusiness Promotion to stimulate private sector interest in the export of high-value
horticultural crops through support to Hortex'(US$ 10.1 million - 20 percent of project costs)
*      Technical Assistance Team to assist DEA with strategic planning and provide technical expertise
(US$5.1 million - 10 percent of project costs).
1.7    The main objective of the Agricultural Research Management Project (ARMP) (1996 -2000)
was to increase the efficiency of the national agricultural research system and thereby generate
profitable, relevant, and sustainable agricultural technologies. This was to be achieved through (a)
strengthening the capacities of the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) in research
organization and management, including better research resource allocation; (b) supporting priority
research; and (c) strengthening research linkages to extension through participatory farming systems
research. There were three components:
*      Research Management and Organization to strengthen research planning and managerial
capabilities of BARC through institutional reform, improved economic analysis, technical
assistance, civil works, training, contract research, and supervision of master plans for
1. Hortex is the Horticultural Export Development Foundation set up in 1993 as a not for profit foundation for development,
promotion and marketing of exportable horticultural produce, particularly high-value, non-traditional crops to high-priced non-
conventional markets.



3
participating agricultural research institutions (ARls); (US$14.0 million at appraisal - 24 percent
of project costs)
*      Priority Research to carry out research at ARI's on crops, fisheries, livestock, and forestry
(US$40.6 million at appraisal - 68 percent of project costs)
*      Participatory Farming Systems Research to strengthen farming systems research programs
through support to research-extension linkages and testing and dissemination of appropriate
technology (US$4.6 million at appraisal - 8 percent of project costs).
2.     Analysis
Relevance
2.1    ASSP. Increasing agricultural production, especially in food grains, and initiating a diversification
process aimed at the introduction of high-value export crops, are central to the country's current
development priorities, as outlined in the government-endorsed New Agricultural Extension Policy and
reflected in the Bank CAS, and are fully consistent with the Bank's current rural strategy. The project
objectives were therefore highly relevant.
2.2    ARMP. The project objectives were highly relevant. Increasing productivity and contributing to
diversification were consistent with the development priorities of Bangladesh and with Bank strategies
and goals. Indeed, along with infrastructure, enhanced technology in agriculture arguably is the highest
priority fDr the alleviation of poverty.
Outcome of the Two Projects
2.3    Outcome of ASSP is rated moderately satisfactory and of ARMP moderately unsatisfactory2.
Overall, project design only partially addressed the main lessons, with more progress in extension than in
research. In extension, progress was made in shifting away from the rigid, high-cost, highly staff-
intensive T&V system, reversing much of what had been introduced with Bank support except for a core
element of work planning. Improved feedback and decision-making processes were developed at the local
level. The Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE) has been
somewhat reduced in size. But the mechanism for reduction has  Project design only
been inefficient, through the freezing of recruitment, distorting  partially addressed the
the age structure of the extension service. DAE is now somewhat  main lessons, with more
better organized and exhibits greater decentralization of decision  progress in extension than
making and a number of processes have been put in place to link  in research.
research and extension at the local level. Nevertheless, most
donor and NGO observers believe that, overall, there has been only modest progress on research
extension linkages and farmer feedback. In research, the problem of the role of BARC with coordinating
responsibilities but little power, no responsibility for channeling core funding, and limited skills, was
appreciaLted during project design but largely remains. The plethora of institutes and substations-some
rural centers have five or more institutes and substations-has scarcely been tackled except with "Band-
aid" process adjustments. The number of staff has been reduced in research also, partly again through the
recruitment freeze, but also partly through loss of skills overseas due to lack of incentives.
2 The borrower in Annex D says this rating is too sweeping and inconsistent with the ICR



4
Agricultural Support Services Project
2.4    Overall, efficacy is rated modest due to modest farmer contact rates and uncertainties about the
production impact of those contacts. However, with the important shift away from the old T&V system
towards a group approach, achievement of objectives in this project was relatively better than in the
Research Project, but still insufficient to lift to a substantial rating. Increased agricultural production and
the initiation of diversification was to be through working with groups using demonstrations. Plans at
Block and Sub-District level were drawn from farmers' needs assessments, thus setting priorities at a
decentralized level. This promising approach was insufficiently tested and adapted early in the project
partly because of limited skills and incentives. Little progress was made for the first three years, but
actions taken following the Mid-Term Review turned project performance around and the important New
Agricultural Extension Policy was developed.
2.5    The extent to which the objective of increasing productivity was met and is attributable to the
project is uncertain due to limited outcome data. The increase in overall productivity in Bangladesh
agriculture was low during the first part of the project period at about 1.7 percent per annum-the same
as the population growth rate-but it accelerated to 5.1 percent from
1996 to 2000.3 During that period, the highest growth rate was in  Little progress was made
fisheries-a subsector largely outside DAE's responsibility and  for the first three years,
serviced by other Bank-supported projects. One circumstantial piece of  but actions taken following
evidence is that the OED mission found substantial increases in land  the Mid-Term Review
values over the past 10 years in all locations visited, suggesting a  significantly improved
capitalization of substantial productivity gains. However, attributing  project performance.
this to the project is difficult. A substantial portion is certainly due to
improved infrastructure. In particular, the new Jamuna River bridge appears to have had an enormous
impact. Searching further back in the logical chain for indicators at the input level, there are three pieces
of evidence. First, there was some improvement in the rate of farmer contact. Based on a 1999 impact
study done by consultants for DFID, the percentage contacted by DAE rose from 2.8 percent in the
baseline year to 7 percent and then briefly to 9 percent in 1997-98 but then dropped back to 5 percent in
1999. However, the study argues that this underestimates contacts because there are other DAE-
originated activities not picked up under the survey. Second, an important target input indicator-the
number of on-farm demonstrations-was more than met, achieving double the target at 433,000
demonstrations. Quality of demonstrations was probably satisfactory, although there were some concerns
about the treatment "controls" that were lacking or inappropriately designed. Third, field days also came
very close to achieving the target indicator at 846,000 against a target of 902,000.
2.6    With respect to the objective of initiating diversification, this was almost certainly achieved,
although the term "initiating" is open to a wide range of interpretation. In the area of extension
diversification, the mission encountered a clear focus on crop diversification by many Block Supervisors
at the farm/group level, often aided by NGOs. Technologies transferred appear to cover a wide spread
including, particularly, homestead vegetables, which, with NGO support, was a major focus of the project-
a component mostly involving women and very good for poverty targeting and diversification. As one of the
more successful vegetable-growing farmer groups told the mission, "Before we got this assistance, other
people did not want to marry into our families, now they come seeking us out."
2.7    The other main prong in the diversification focus, the agribusiness (Hortex) component, was cut
back in scale but it did contribute to getting one main exporter quite well established and about another
3. Total factor productivity in nce improved from the mid-1970s/mid-1980s (O 79) to the mid-1980s/mid-1990s (1.37), but
whether that improvement was sustained through the later project period is uncertain.



5
four or Five close to some significant export activity. Moreover, the field enterprises in this component
have been quite well poverty targeted through export crop employment intensity. While there are
questions about how long the subsidy to Hortex is justified, it appears to have provided a modest kick-
start to high-value, high-employment, agricultural exporting. However, there are some questions about
the efficacy of this component. While supporting the initiation of horticulture exports was appropriate,
the actual achievement has been modest in volume. So far, barely 200 tons per year of exports are being
achieved, largely by one organization (the Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee, BRAC), which
no longer needs the support of Hortex. The task of initiating horticulture exports is clearly not finished
and competitors to the dominant exporter now need to be encouraged. However, given the unlikelihood
that Hcrtex will be allowed to compulsorily collect service fees from former clients based on export
volume to ensure its sustainability,4 a decision is needed soon on how long Hortex should be sustained
with public funds and what the criteria would be for exit from this initially-justified public support. The
government should draw lessons from related experiences in other countries.
2.8     On the process and planning side there have been some positive developments: new planning and
management systems incorporating work program prioritization were introduced and appear to have been
largely sustained-the mission sat in on one quite lively and productive District meeting. However,
several activities have been less successful. Farmer Needs Assessments are not working very well. Skills
are still weak and, in the absence of substantial project funding, there are serious doubts about the
capacil.y of the system to maintain adequate technical skills.5 There is also excessive bureaucratic formn-
filling. The mission counted about 200 to 250 forms per year that have to be completed by a Block
Supervisor. This may be a record globally.
2.9     Links to research remain weak. Poverty targeting has some weaknesses, a situation that is not
helped by the limited range of low-cost technology packages emanating from research.6 DAE extension
operates separately from forestry, livestock, and fisheries with limited coordination at the Block level.
Extreme 'projectization" in the budget means virtually no base level of operating or training funds and,
therefore, extension direction at the local level is pulled toward whatever has been negotiated with the
particular donor of the time. While there is much to be said for the motivation and management
efficienc y of a "projectized" extension campaign approach (it is often the approach adopted by the sales
forces of commercial rural companies), it does seem to have been carried to extremes in Bangladesh due
to budget exigencies. One important elements of a broader agricultural sector support package has been
missing and should have been addressed within the overall agricultural lending program. There has been
a gaping hole in credit supply between the landless-handled by such agencies as the Grameen Bank-
and the quite well off, who can get credit from commercial banks. Development practitioners even have a
name for this neglected in-between cohort: "the sandwich people."
2.10    The contact rate with farmers was found to be about 7 to 9 percent, only just within the range of
achievements in other countries (Annex B) and this after prolonged Bank support . As noted above, the
contazt rate was found to have declined in 1999. In the impact studies, there were high levels of positive
4 Hortex was expecting to raise a voluntary cess per kilogram of produce exported as a reward for the training and services
suppli-d initially. This is not happening and cannot be expected to happen unless it is legislated or unless it is agreed collectively
by a vry strong exporter organization, which is unlikely to be in place for some time
5 There aie. in fact, differences of view among local observers about whether the greatest weakness lies in extension methods or
in technical skills The evaluator is inclined to believe that strong technical skills can override much weakness elsewhere whereas
the reverse is not true For example, one observer noted that, in the relevant area of the south, few, if any, Block Supervisors
seemed aware of the new saline-tolerant varieties of rice
6. More risearch teams should be answenng pro-poor, systems-onented, questions like, "If I have only Tk2000 to spend on this crop
or sys.em on this land area what combination of inputs and practices should I spend it on to maximize my income increase?"



6
responses-in the region of 90 percent-to questions about whether, after receiving information from
demonstrations or other events, farmers planned to adopt the featured technologies, and similarly high
percentages who found worthwhile benefits to the adopted technologies. However, both these questions
present interpretation problems. There is no evidence linking measured incremental incomes to attributable
extension effort, but such evidence is rarely obtainable anywhere.
2.11   Debate is ongoing about extension staff numbers. Appropriately At the peak about 7 to 9
given the financial sustainability concerns, there was a Bank-imposed  percent of farmers were
condition on reducing staff numbers. The ratio is now about 1 Block  contacted at least once a year
Supervisor to 1,200 farm households. In the absence of the broad early  by DAE staff. Most tested
retirement retrenchment sought earlier by the Bank and rejected by  technologies offered and
government, the use of the economy-wide recruitment freeze to achieve  found them worthwhile, but
the reduction has resulted in a distorted age structure (nearly all Block  productivity impact is
Supervisors are now above the age of 37) that cannot be sustained much  unclear.
longer. DAE officials would like to improve the age structure, but
believe that they may be legally constrained by the Bank's earlier staff ceiling conditionality. Until financial
sustainability at the present scale is more assured, increasing numbers would be counterproductive.
2.12   Quite apart from the overall government budgetary constraints, which leave serious questions about
the capacity to sustain a larger extension service, it is by no means clear what the optimal pattern of
expenditure m extension should be, not only with respect to numbers of staff but also to supporting expenditure
on Agricultural Training Institutes, audiovisual media, and different levels of expenditure on support such as
transport (for example, motorbikes versus bicycles). Before any decisions are made about changing
farmer/extension staff ratios, cost effectiveness evidence needs to be assembledfrom monitored and evaluated
alternatives for extension intensity. DAE and the Bank are to be commended for using the follow-on
Agricultural Services Innovation and Reform Project (ASIRP) to test alternative approaches at different cost
levels. One view expressed to the mission was that the ASSP-adopted group approach was anointed as the
chosen approach too early. This may well be correct. In some districts, a Farmer Field School approach for
integrated pest management (IPM) is now being supported. As an extension approach this also warrants the
same cost effectiveness scrutiny.7
2.13   The project supported eight breeder seed units, covering rice, wheat, lentils, and jute, which are now
largely functional. The increased supply of improved seed through the farmer exchange program8 has clearly
had some benefit. Surveyed farmers who had participated in the program estimated about 110 percent to 130
percent productivity increases without additional complementary inputs and about 200 percent to 250 percent
with additional inputs. However, inadequate and impermanent staffing remains a serious concern and seed
subsidies were not lifted, raising questions about sustainability.
2.14   The efficacy of the training component was mixed. Civil works were completed and training modules
developed with assistance from the ASSP Technical Assistance Team. However, the Block Supervisor training
largely came before the New Agricultural Extension Policy (NAEP), and the "cascade" training-the training
of trainers, who then trained at lower levels, as noted in the ICR, did not work very well.
7 The need for experimentation and careful analysis of cost effectiveness is even more Important given the increasing possibility
that decentralization will, in due course, hand over extension to local governments perhaps with budgetary allocation guidelines
or controls Decision makers at such decentralized levels presumably will be particularly interested in performance evidence to
guide their allocation of resources.
8 E.very participating farmer returns twice the amount of seed received, which is then redistributed-the result being a snowball
effect, provided quality is satisfactory.



7
2.15   The homestead component, which supported intensive homestead production for women and covered
crops, ljvestock, and horticulture in partnership with about 50 selected NGOs, appears to have progressed quite
well. A 1998 donor-funded independent evaluation, while not offering incremental productivity data, suggests
that the programs were generally effective and beneficial to resource-poor women. The mission also observed
some prormising results in the field. The relative success of this component raises the question of comparative
advantage of public agencies and whether public support for extension should not now quite rapidly shift
further toward mainly supporting other providers, such as NGOs. This is not a new debate in Bangladesh or
globally.
2.16   Ti?chnical assistarnce, largely financed by DFID, has made, and continues to make, a substantial
contribation to strategy, irnplementation, and training. The only caveat is that the management information
systems developed by some consultants may have been somewhat too sophisticated for the available skills-
particularly computer skills.
2.17   The linkage between the ARMP and ASSP via the liaison committees at both central and local
levels and the Farming Systems Research component, while improving feedback in both directions, still has
weaknesses. Farmer Needs Assessments require improved skills and the Farmning Systems work is close to a
state of collapse for lack of funds. The follow-on ASIRP has sustained the research-extension linkages in
some respects, but overall there is much unfinished business.
Agricultuiral Research Mianagement Project
2.18   Overall efficacy is rated modest partly because quality at entry was weak in the critical area of
institutional reform. The main objective stated in the SAR was to "increase the efficiency (emphasis added)
of the national agricultural research system and thereby generate profitable, relevant, and sustainable
agricultural technologies through strengthening BARC.
supporting priority research, and strengthening research  While useful research was done,
linkages...." As is often the case, the objectives were not  efficacy of ARMP was modest in
well translated into actionable and monitorable     improving efficiency. Notwithstanding
implementation indicators with a focus on outputs.  process improvements, an inefficient
institutional structure remained with
2.19   With respect to improved efficiency of the system,  limited influence of BARC on ARI
there were no indicators that might enable tracking of  programs, insufficient capacity to shift
efficiency changes. Improved efficiency would call  resources, little improvement in staff
particularly for improvements in the overall allocation of  incentives and no rationalization of the
financial and human resources toward areas of highest  plethora of institutes and substations.
economic return both between main commodity or
thematic areas and within those areas and for reduced costs
per unit of research output. Although data is limited, results are mixed. The systemic problem from the past
rematns Separate ministries still retain control of their own pieces of the sector, making coordination
difficult9.
2.20   On the negative side, BARC still has no control over the allocation of resources between crops,
livest.ock, fisheries, and forestry since these come under different ministries. Even within those subsectors,
while B ARC staff assured the mission that they have influenced allocations, the mission found it difficult at
the institute level to elicit examples where this was acknowledged to have happened. In any case, resource
allocations can be and are subsequently altered without reference to BARC. Also, the sheer number of
9 In relation to rationalization, the borrower notes in Annex C that this is now approved and underway



8
independent institutes and substations in the same location, each with its separate local management and
support structure and facilities, each starved for operating funds (for example, eight in Rajshahi and at least
five in or near many other towns), cannot be efficient.
2.21    On the positive side, at the institute level, the increased use of prioritizing procedures, including
some use of ex-ante economic analysis, suggests the potential for improved resource allocations within
institute programs, although there are still a number of programs where many research proposals offer
simply one or two sentences of economic justification. The ICR noted that there was "some evidence of
research teams and assessment criteria being modified in response to feedback from farmers by the Farming
System Research programs." The contract research program applied a rigorous selection process, but still 90
percent went to government institutions probably at least partly
substituting for core programs starved of government funds rather  It is too soon to assess impact.
than being truly incremental. While it could be argued that there  Studies suggest high rates of
were too many small contracts, overall the contract component was  return to some selected
managed satisfactorily.                                        programs-mostly in plant
breeding which usually gives
2.22    With respect to technologies, while it is still mostly too  high returns. The series of
early to use adoption level of released varieties or husbandry  research projects has produced
recommendations as a measure of performance of this particular  a stream of new technologies,
project, what limited evidence there is on efficiency is somewhat  but with modest percentages of
mixed. Agriculture growth did pick up from a low rate (negative  area under the newer varieties,
for rice) in the early 1990s to 5.1 percent after 1996, but given  and with stagnant HV   rice
research/adoption lags little of the latter can yet be attributed to  yields, there may be a slowing
the project. Much of the recent growth achieved in agriculture is  of benefit streams more
attributable to an approximately 8 percent growth in fertilizer  recently. Research has also been
use. The incentive for this does come partly from responsive   slow to shift toward meeting
varieties, and also from increased irrigation due to increased  newer needs such as
groundwater use. Impact studies, as is often the case, suggest  commercial product quality.
high rates of return to selected individual research programs-
mostly in the area of plant breeding. However, there are some troubling features. First, stagnant growth
of HYV rice yield in the aus and aman seasons is a growing concern. Second, across the three research
projects-AR I, AR I, and ARMP-there has been a sustained stream of new technologies with modest
adoption but, as BARC noted in its own impact study, some question about whether the adoption rate on
improved varieties has been declining for some crops., The average age of the most widely adopted
varieties is now very high.' This may suggest relatively higher economic returns to research investments
before the mid- 1980s, both by program and in aggregate, with declining returns subsequently. The
project in question, of course, falls in the latter period. More evidence should be sought by BARC on this
issue." In addition, research has been slow to shift toward meeting the more recent commercialization
and quality marketing needs and many observers in the rural NGO community see research/extension
links as still weak.
10. For example, about 45 percent of T Aman season rice is sown to BRI 1, a variety released in 1981, about 80 percent of wheat
is Kanchan, a variety released in 1983, and the dominant mill-zone sugar was released in 1967.
11. Some decline in economic returns to research investments should be expected as one shifts from the easy initial high-yielding
varieties (HYVs), which more than doubled yields over traditional varieties to second-generation improved HYVs, which must
offer significant increments over the first-generation HYVs Nevertheless, the apparent modest levels of adoption of newer HYVs
should be of concern.
12. For example, about 45 percent of T Aman season rice is sown to BRI 1, a variety released in 1981, about 80 percent of wheat
is Kanchan, a variety released in 1983, and the dominant mill-zone sugar was released in 1967.



9
2.23    With respect to BARC capacity, this was somewhat improved in skills and processes, but the new
ordinance did more to clarify BARC's already assigned role than to enhance its capacity or resource
allocation authority. Therefore, the extent to which BARC really contributed much to improved resource
allocation i, questionable. There remain many staff vacancies and the staff of BARC, after many years,
are still on the development budget rather than the revenue budget, a debilitating signal of impermanence
also affecting the extent of their influence on the system.
2.24    Wiih respect to support for priority research, incremental support was provided in a number of
priority research areas both through the core program support and the grant program. External reviews of
this were generally positive, suggesting that there had been significant improvements in the quality of
core research activities. At the institute level selected ex-post economic analyses suggested good rates of
return, but given the lag in research benefits these still rely largely on projected rather than actual benefit
streams.
2.25    With respect to research-extension linkages, most donors and NGOs who have observed the
process clcsely see rather modest gains in this direction. There appears to have been better progress in
research-extension linkages through the limited-scale Farming Systems Research mechanism-
sustainability of which is doubtful-than through direct linkages to the broader range of core programs.14
Chronic sbortages of operating funds make it very difficult for researchers to reach out much to the field.
2.26   Linkages with the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGLAR) system
are in place in a number of research areas and the involvement of CGIAR institutes, particularly the
Internatiortal Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR), during the project contributed to
improving performance. While the mission did not have the resources to probe this question fully, based
on limited observation and discussion the linkage with international centers appears satisfactory.
Efficiency
Agricultural Support Services Project
2.27    On balance, efficiency is rated modest. There are a number of uncertainties due to the limited
attributabte impact measurement. Available evidence is more on farmer contact, poverty targeting, and
adoption intent than on incremental production or income from actual adoption. There are questions
about what costs to attribute.
2.28    Economic Rate of Return. There are two sources of estimates for the ERR, the 1999 impact
assessment and the ICR. These estimates are based on adoption estimates which mainly arise from the
Technology Transfer component. It is not clear in these analyses how much these benefit streams also
cover benefits from the Training, Seed Improvement, Homestead Production and Agri-business
components and thus how much of those component costs should be attributable. The 1999 impact
assessment economic analysis using representative budgets for selected typical crop enterprises found an
13. Some decline in economic retums to research investments should be expected as one shifts from the easy initial high-yielding
varieties (H YV s), which more than doubled yields over traditional varieties to second-generation improved HYVs, which must
offer significar,t increments over the first-generation HYVs. Nevertheless, the apparent modest levels of adoption of newer HYVs
should be of concern.
14. There i; some risk that a designated Farming Systems Research programn, as opposed to FSR that permeates the whole
program, m ill be seen by researchers in the core programs as exonerating them from any need to maintain links with farmers or
extension, .e., the opportunity to say, "someone else is doing it."



10
ERR of 48 percent to ASSP costs alone. However, there is a concern about the sensitivity analysis
because adding only 20 percent of DAE costs at the district level lowers the ERR to 8 percent.
Surprisingly, this sensitivity, while tabulated, is not discussed in that impact assessment.'5
2.29   The ICR finds an ERR of 26 percent with a reduced adoption area in the sensitivity test giving an
ERR of 17 percent. Methodologically, this is a very simplified economic analysis of limited value. It is
usually possible to show satisfactory rates of return for relatively modest adoption levels of improved
technology in a large agricultural sector. The question is always
whether even such modest levels are actually being achieved and  Although impact data are limited,
are attributable to the extension input. Overall, therefore, in both  the estimated ASSP ERR is above
analyses, there are considerable difficulties with attribution.  the Opportunity Cost of Capital.
However, it is very sensitive to the
2.30   The Efficiency of the Agricultural Training Institutes  share of DAE costs included and
and the Central Extension Resources Development Institute-  there are questions about
The efficiency of ATIs and CERDI, both supported under the  attribution. There are questions
project and earlier projects, is questionable. The ATIs are now  about agriculture returns to
largely teachers training colleges"6. About 70 percent of the 5,000  investments in ATIs because 70
students who leave each year go on to teach science. While this  percent of those trained become
ensures quite good agriculture elements in school science, it is  science teachers.
doubtful whether this is cost-effective for direct and immediate
agricultural impact. DAE appears to be going along with this
budgetary sleight-of-hand to ensure a surviving training capacity for when the freeze on Block
Supervisors recruitment comes to an end or funds somehow become available. With about 10,000 Block
Supervisors in the extension service, an annual capacity to produce 5,000 new ones appears way beyond
DAE' s need, even allowing for some going to the private sector and NGOs-one tenth of that number
would probably be sufficient. What is needed to make sound decisions on ATIs is a projection of Block
Supervisor demand and a decision on whether the next step would be toward using graduate extension
staff. The use of quality-controlled private ATI's (there are several) as a source for Block Supervisors
should be considered. CERDI also needs a decision. Currently, it operates simply as a facility. Yet it has
a complement of training staff, which is wasteful. There appears to be a case for an active center that
could develop both training and materials-as was the original intent supported by earlier Bank funding.
But if funds are not available (another area where extreme projectization of funding has had an impact),
then it should simply be administered as a set of buildings or be sold.
2.31   DAE Resource Allocation Efficiency. There are questions about the efficiency of overall DAE
extension expenditure. One might expect some relationship between total development and revenue
budget allocation per Block and current or projected agricultural output per Block. In fact, each Block
receives about the same allocation. While the size of each Block (these are not national administrative
units; they are determined by DAE) is adjusted by DAE to approximately match the number of farmers, it
is not clear that the resulting resource allocations are broadly optimal since neither growth nor poverty is
necessarily correlated with density or number of farmers. While there are political parameters, better
analysis of spatial resource allocation is warranted, leading, perhaps, to greater differentiation depending
on potential extension impact.
15. The mission attempted to identify and add up costs assigned to extension in the research analysis and cost assigned to
extension in the extension analysis to assess the extent of under-counting or double counting, but found the data too partial to
complete that task.
16 This is disputed by the borrower in Annex E but alternative data on the percentage who become teachers is not provided.



Agriculturai Research Management Project
2.32   Efficiency is rated modest overall. The overall economic rate of return was probably adequate-
although there is insufficient data to recalculate an aggregate-but it could have been much higher with
greater attent ion to rationalization, a system with improved allocative efficiency across sub-sectors, and
improved staff incentives. Since improved efficiency was the main objective, efficiency has been largely
covered abovle under the efficacy heading. This section provides some elaboration.
2.33   Improved Efficiency in Management Processes. The project achieved a number of
improvements in management processes including: two Standing Committees on Budget and Research
Programming to review proposals submitted to the BARC Governing Body, staff promotion criteria,
criteria for the selection of candidates for higher training, the introduction of a research prioritization
mechanism, procedures for selecting grant proposals, and software and supporting manuals for personnel
management, budget, accounting, and auditing. Mostly these have been sustained. However, there are
weaknesses. First, while promotion criteria exist, impact on performance incentives is negligible because
of a limitation in promotion positions; a number of staff, such as Farm Systems Research staff, are still
not on the revenue budget and therefore are temporary; difficulties of transfer between institutions; and
very small salary increments. Second, the new management systems are being used only to a very limited
extent due to complexity, lack of computer skills, lack of management understanding of what such
systems offer, and incomplete implementation. The gains in this area are, therefore, probably quite
modest. Expectations were, on the other hand, excessive
2.34   Economic Rate of Return. During the project, numerous attempts were made at economic
analysis of individual programs, all using a widely accepted economic surplus model and incorporating a
share of extension and BARC overhead costs. Indeed, the use of such analysis is one of the benefits to
come from the training component. As noted in the ICR, IRRs'7 for six major crops (T Aman rice,
Boro/Aus rice, wheat, potatoes, jute, sugarcane) in ex-post analyses ranged from 15 percent (jute) to 59
percent (T Aman rice). In addition the following IRRs for other crops/systems were found: agro-forestry,
70 percent to 1 12 percent; brinjal, 44 percent; guava 50 percent.
2.35   Such high rates of return are common in agricultural
research. While there is little doubt that economic rates of  IRRs to selected research are high.
return to even a suboptimally designed agricultural research  Were aggregate analysis possible the
project such as this may be adequate to cover the opportunity  IRR would still probably be
cost of capital, there remain doubts about economic  satisfactory. But, given excessive age
performance on four grounds. First, the impressive individual of varieties, the on/off nature of
commodity IRRs inevitably cover programs that researchers  research, difficulty of applying new
believe have had a significant impact. Failed or weaker lines  skills with project closure, weakness
of research do not surface. Second, as noted earlier, the high  in research-extension links, and lack
average age of adopted varieties in rice, wheat, jute,  of institute rationalization, IRRs are
sugarcane, .and potatoes, raises the possibility that returns, at  well below what they could have been
least to breedirig work, were very high before the early 1980s and they may be falling.
but may have fallen substantially since then. Third, the
aggregate impact analysis does not adequately accommodate a "without project" productivity scenario-a
composite of such things as earlier research benefits streams, the impact of improved infrastructure such as
the Jamuna bridge, and indigenous technical knowledge. Fourth, rationalization of the NARS could have
greatly reduced costs for the same outcome.
17. We use tLe term IRR (Internal Rate of Return) since most estimates seen do not include fu]l economic adjustment of financial
values into economic



12
Institutional Development
Agricultural Support Services Project
2.36   Institutional development impact is rated substantial overall. Substantial weight is given here to
the shift from T&V to the group-based approach, to the introduction of promising management
processes, and to the NAEP. Skills were improved, but due to the late emergence of the NAEP, less than
hoped for. Unfortunately, the substantial unfinished business in the improved computerized management
information systems was not picked up for completion under ASIRP, an element that would have offered
high returns given the sunk costs. The technical assistance made a significant institutional impact,
bringing in mostly strong skills from global experience. The Bank's conditionality on holding down the
numbers of Block Supervisor staff was sound with respect to financial sustainability but should have
been done through retrenchment not the expedient of the hiring freeze, which has left the legacy of an
increasingly unhealthy (in the institutional sense) age profile.
The Bank used the lessons of two
Agricultural Research Management Project                   previous projects showing the
need for "deep institutional
2.37   Institutional development impact was, at best,      reforms"-to develop, with local
modest, a rating also given by the ICR.. This assessment is  scientists, a sound set of minimum
based on five main elements of institutional development-  institutional reforms for ARMP.
changes in the overall enabling environment, including    Most were abandoned to
regulatory changes, changes in organizational structures,  accommodate borrower concerns.
changes in management processes, changes in staff         They should not have been.
incentives, and skills development.
2.38   Enabling Environment. The main shifts were in new legal ordinances for BARC and the ARIs. The
impact of this was modest. The BARC ordinance largely restated the already established role of BARC as a
coordinating body with no budget allocation responsibility beyond control over any assigned grant programs.
The ARI ordinances did achieve something of significance by establishing a more formal requirement that the
ARIs pass their research plans through BARC for review, but it did not require the adoption of review
recommendations; moreover, ARIs were expected to do this even before the ordinance.
2.39   Organizational Structures. The three separate ministries retained their hold over their own
ARIs, and BARC's place and remit in the organizational structure remained essentially unchanged.'8
There was no reduction in the number of institutes or substations. Anomalies such as the overlap of the
Bangladesh Institute of Nuclear Agriculture (BINA) with the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI)
on rice breeding, and the lack of common service rules across institutes, were not addressed. The ICR
argues, "Quality at Entry was enhanced by the decision to delay appraisal until agreement was reached
with the government on the future role of BARC, solidifying it as an apex organization for NARS (the
national agricultural research system) responsible for research organization and, ultimately, research
funding." It is not entirely clear what "solidifying" means in this context, although it is correct that the
BARC role was clarified somewhat, but with few real changes. The reference to "and, ultimately,
research funding" appears to be wishful thinking. Was it efficient to design a project that largely
18. The legal relatonship between the Boards of Management of the independent mistitutes and the Executive Council and Governing
Body of BARC is not entirely clear. Some ARIs have boards headed by a minister and are therefore politically stronger than the BARC
Executive Council. In the absence of legal sanction, the hope was that intellectual authority In redirecting research would make legal
authority superfluous. The reality, however, is that BARC has been unable to recruit sufficient high-level scientists to mamtain intellectual
authority partly due to the predominance of uncertain revenue budget positions.



13
accepted the institutional statLs quo that the previous two research projects had shown to be deficient? In
this respect the project files are revealing, as the box below shows.
Box. The Anaitomy of a Rationalization
Bank files sLow that, during preparation, there was a determination that this third research project would not be
"more of the sanme' with respect to institutional reform. As it turned out, while some gains were made, it largely was.
The Identificcition Mission Aide Memoire of September 1991 said, "There are a number of fundamental changes that are
needed in the... structure of the NARS.... There is a need for a virtual sea change in the way in which agricultural
research is viewed, organized... and held accountable.... Research institutions cannot be treated simply as another
government cdepartment.... If these general parameters are not in place it is likely that additional resources in agricultural
research will not be very productive." A subsequent Bank mission indicated that the key characteristics of a revised
NARS would be "a unitary system with considerable autonomy,...(have) no direct links between ministries and
institutes.... Aunding for the NARS should be passed from ihe government to the governing body.. .thus research funds
would no longer feature in a line ministry budgets,...the governing body should have substantial representation from
clients,...rationalization of facilities of regional and substations is required." Over the subsequent months, following
resistance from GOB, the files show a gradual rationalization. Although acceptance of the reforms had originally been a
condition for preparation, a mission was still fielded An internal memo in December 1992 rationalizes that, "we should
not be dogmatic, on the exact shape of the research system.... We should go back to first principles and look at why
research is not working at present." This after two major studies, a workshop, and two projects had already established
why researcl, was not working and produced carefully considered institutional reform proposals. An internal memo then
requests Bank staff to, "define again clearly the problems that would be addressed by the reorganization proposed
earlier.... With a clear definition of the problems, I am confident that management will not object to a sensible solution
even if this represents a major deviation from the proposal which has been promoted so vigorously up until recently."
The files show an inexorable rationalization toward what was termed a "Modified Unitary System." In fact, the result
was not unitary and really constituted a relatively minor adjustment to the institutional status quo-essentially, changes
to BARC and ARI Councils/Governing Bodies and ordinances, a unified personnel system (subsequently dropped), and
improved management systems/processes that one would have expected anyway under any institutional structure. This
sequence of events seems consistent with a general trend of very margmal reform. At this point, when the ARMP final
design was largely consolidated, a consultant notes in a Back-To-Office Report of March 1993, "The progress made
between the appraisal of the first research project in 1977 and now seems to have been minimal." The Revised
Executive Project Summary of May 1993 hid more than it revealed. Having correctly summarized the earlier
recommendations, it reported simply, "With the exception of discontinuing the administrative control of the ARIs by
their respective ministries, GOB has agreed to the salient features of the proposed reforms." The reality was that GOB
had largely disagreed with the fundamental elements. GOB would later, at appraisal, announce that it could not
implement the main staffing reforms due to civil service rules. Also, the autonomy of the ARIs was extended. There is
no evidence of assessment of the impact of this greater autonomy on the relative strengths of BARC and ARIs or on
resource allocation decisions.
2.40    In the end, three of the four big institutional issues- the weak position of BARC vis-A-vis the
ARIs, the lack of a single decision locus and channel for budgetary allocations, and the inefficiency of
the excessive number of institutes and substations-were not confronted in project design. The fourth-
the managem.ent process improvements-were tackled with some success but to some extent these
represent procedural devices to minimize the failure to achieve the initially intended "deep institutional
reform." I'he underlying problem is, and always has been, the placing of ministry sectoral interests-
agriculture, forestry, livestock-above national research coordination interests, and the inability of
government at any level-either BARC, or the Ministry of Finance, or Planning, to manage funds to get
around thts political problem and to finally make substantive progress on research management and
efficienc. It is questionable whether climbing down on what had been accepted by Bank management as
fundamental institutional reform principles was the right Bank strategyfor a third project in a series. It is
impossible to characterize the project institutional design as "deep institutional reformns."



14
2.41   To be fair, one element in the Bank's rationalizations with substance was the concern that BARC
was too weak to manage the funding of a unified NARS. This was a valid concern but could have been
addressed in a phased transition and, alone, was not enough to abandon an overall sound and carefully
thought through institutional reform strategy.'9
2.42    The Counterfactual What would have happened had the Bank held to its earlier positions?
Almost certainly, there would have been a standoff between the Bank and GOB. Depending on the
position of other donors this might have been relatively short-lived with some window of opportunity
emerging. It might also have been longer. Would this have mattered? Given the substantial gap between
research yields and farmer's yields (about 70 percent fairly consistently across commodities) and the
persistent financial sustainability issue, it is argued that the short-term negative impact would have been
relatively modest and the potential positive medium to longer-term impact on research efficiency would
have been substantial. The Bank could have waited for ownership while maintaining, within a reasonable
band of flexibility, a minimum bottom-line, perhaps in association with some low scenario "holding"
lending.
2.43   Management Processes. Gains in this area are one of the main reasons for rating Institutional
Development modest rather than negligible. There were important improvements in processes, although the
systems established are by no means fully used and some are not yet functional. In particular, the system of
prioritization and the establishment of selection procedures for grants were important improvements. The ARI
Master Plans have been of some value. However, in the post-project period, the increasing gap between these
plans and operational funds availability raises serious questions about the realism of those plans In one
institute, it was estimated that they were currently receiving about one-third of the full plan estimated funding.
2.44   Staff Incentives. While, in theory, performance is now a factor considered in promotions, in
practice, with the long-standing national recruitment freeze, constraints on movement between institutes,
low salaries,20 and wide fluctuations in availability of operating funds, there are few incentives for
performance that can be offered. Moreover, there are still no common service and promotion criteria
across institutions.
2.45   Skills Development. This is another area with probable positive impact although there are
questions about utilization of training. There were undoubtedly major achievements in arranging and
completing training; this accounted for about half the credit amount. Training was financed for 114 doctoral
degrees, 17 masters degrees, and 400 short courses. Given the late start due to program management
problems, it was, in the end, an impressive achievement in terms of completion of a project input. However,
even here there are questions about outcome, impact, and sustainability. First, while the intended skills were
largely obtained (with some exceptions due to staff hastily taking whatever course was available to get the
funds before project closing), the lack of operating funds on return following project closing raises
questions about the newly trained staff's ability to apply their skills. As one ARI director commented, "It
seems a waste to spend money on training and then have no operating funds for the returning trainee to use
for research." Nevertheless, quite a number of those trained do appear to be engaged in significant research.
19. An alternative, although second-best, BARC option would have been dissolving it, shifting the current role back into MOA,
and applying the released funds to research.
20 Even staff with a doctoral degree, at the lower levels and with a family and no other source of income, are not far above the
global poverty level of $1 per day per capita. Not surprisingly, many of those with the best skills have left.



15
Bank Performance
2.46   Agricuftural Support Services Project Bank performance in ASSP was mixed, but overall is rated
satisfactory The shift to a group approach was appropriate, timely, and, as suggested by the ICR,
courageous, although the particular extension methodology was arguably consolidated somewhat
prematurely. This has been corrected in the follow-on ASIRP, a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL), which
reverts to a more pluralistic experimental approach. Appraisal drew appropriately on the lessons of
experience. Supervision, while modest in intensity at the start, with no apparent start-up workshop and only
one supervision in 1993,2' improved subsequently. The result of the Mid-Term Review was a number of
sound decision, and adjustments, and given the slower than projected uptake of horticulture activity,
appropriately reduced the scale of the agribusiness (Hortex) component.
2.47   Pro3urement skills and procedures presented some problems. A common Bank misperception is
that, because the borrower agency has implemented Bank projects before, it will have the skills to do so
again. Due co the extremely high turnover of civil service staff this is rarely the case and project
implementation skills need to be built up almost from scratch for each project, especially with respect to
procuremernt, unless there is a permanent project management unit embedded in the agency. There was a
conflict between Bank procurement rules or practice and preferences of extension staff taking bikes on
hire purchase Lerms. There are strong brand associations with bicycles in Asia, which procurement
requirements ignore at their peril: 5,000 "unacceptable" bicycles were procured.
2.48   Agricwltural Research Management Project. Bank performance was mixed, but on balance
unsatisfactory. Preparation and appraisal was thorough with respect to technical research aspects and
establishment of improved research processes but were very weak in the pursuit of the deep reforms clearly
argued for and well justified in preparation documents. The extent of accommodation to a sub-optimal
structure was excessive and probably counterproductive to longer-term research efficiency and impact.22
Supervision was generally well done but could not make up for the institutional design flaws and broader
civil service constraints. The weighting applied for the rating in this mixed performance rests largely on
three argumnents. First, after two earlier projects strongly suggesting more fundamental reforms, the failure
to achieve fundamental reforn yet again warrants a higher weighting than usual and than supervision
performance - generally satisfactory supervision which had to muddle through with the institutional
structure given. Second, the argument that having more BARC autonomy and control over funding was
problematic at the time due to BARC's weakness would have some validity if it were not for the fact that
avoiding reform due to BARC's weakness suggests a treadmill of not reforming because BARC is too weak
to reform, resulting again in BARC being too weak to reform, and so on. Again, a less sustainable argument
the third time around than the first. Third, the borrower's reasons for not reforming more fundamentally
were anothter aspect of the needed reform, more related to the "turf" of participating ministries than to
BARC ski lls. Overall, the Bank appears to have remained a step behind the reformn needs of the time
through the series of projects, for example, by the MTR in this last project, deciding to settle for trying to
get BARC management and skills improved within the largely unreformed structure as a launching pad for a
fourth prolect, a stage that was really reached by the end of the previous project.
21 For some reason, the ICR text says there were no supervisions in 1992 but it lists two in the Annex which do, indeed, seem to
have taken place
22. The experience ofthe earlier projects was outlined in OED Performance Audit Report No. 13218 dated June 27, 1994, and
although th s date is later than the ASSP appraisal, the lessons were already largely evident.



16
Borrower Performance
2.49   Agricultural Support Services Project. Overall, borrower performance is rated satisfactory,
although a number of fundamental civil service problems outside the immediate project design had an
impact on this, as on most, projects. MOA and DAE made a commendable effort to redirect extension
toward a demand-based, efficient system backed by improved skills. As indicated in the ICR,
performance in the early years was disappointing, mainly due to the lack of an agreed extension policy
and some internal DAE resistance to change23. Later, as ownership developed, performance improved.
Performance with respect to Hortex was less satisfactory, but also improved later.
2.50   Agricultural Research Management Project. This assessment agrees with the ICR that borrower
performance was satisfactory overall, but there are very substantial qualifications here. First, the borrower
bears some responsibility for not pursuing more fundamental institutional reforms. Second, as noted in the ICR,
bureaucratic procedures caused numerous delays. Third, service rules were never amended as planned. Fourth,
staffing issues related to the recruitment freeze and the failure to achieve the revenue budget shift constrained
performance. However, there were improvements in borrower performance during the later part of
implementation.
Sustainability
Agricultural Support Services Project
2.51   Overall, the sustainability of ASSP is rated non-evaluable due to significant uncertainties about
the future. The follow-on ASIRP has assured some resilience and consolidation and further
experimentation with extension methods, but after that the future is uncertain. The pluralistic approach
outlined in the NAEP, involving an increasingly wide range of significant players and funding, including
greater partnership with NGOs, gives some hope for greater stability of support. The decline in Block
Supervisor numbers makes financial sustainability more achievable. Extension with bicycle transport can
largely be sustained by salaries with modest operating costs and can be leveraged through groups and
NGOs and can gradually shift toward some degree of cost recovery in one or two higher-value crops.
These factors make sustainability of extension more likely than sustainability of research.
2.52   It was observed that the core processes established are largely being sustained four years after
project closing. Those individual processes that have been abandoned, such as the excessively complex
Seasonal Extension Monitoring System, appear to have been abandoned for sound reasons. The main
sustainability uncertainty is whether, after ASIRP, extension will be sustained at the current rather
modest achievement level associated with the lack of operating costs, and difficulties in maintaining staff
morale with low salaries, or if it will now, on the basis of lessons learned, encourage government to
increase resources to allow the next steps in the NAEP transition to be taken. Another uncertainty is the
extent to which future decentralization may place extension funding at lower levels with less central
ministry and, presumably, greater client control.
2.53   The agribusiness (Hortex) component is not sustainable in terms of cost recovery. It is largely
dependent on government subsidy and donor support, both of which are fragile. It was not expected to be
self-financing initially and it would be more realistic to assume that it will never be substantially self-
financing. The question is whether it is a high priority for continued subsidy and to what level. Given the
soil, climatic, and seasonal timing advantages and low labor costs, there is no reason why Bangladesh
23 The borrower in Annex E notes inadequate supervision by IDA with which OED agrees, as suggested in para 2.46.



17
shouldk not eventually compete quite well with other horticultural exporting countries, such as Kenya,
once skills are developed and air freight volume increases. This promising potential demand, along with
the emplcymrient potential, is an argument for continued infant-industry subsidy for a limited period
(another livc: years perhaps). But criteria for exit need to be established now so that there is policy
clarity anJ milestones.
2.54   The sustainability of the Seeds Component is unlikely in the absence of both the removal of
subsidies and a revolving fund arrangement.
Agric ulturao Research Management Project
2.55   Suslainability in ARMP is rated unlikely. The history of research funding (see figure) shows
substantial funding available during periods of significant donor projects, for example 1990 to 1992 for
the end of the Agricultural Research II Project and 1997 to 2001 for the peak of ARMP, falling to very
low levels after projects close. In constant terms, total GOB expenditure for the fiscal year commencing
2002 wil) be about the same as in 1990/91 despite significant agricultural GDP growth over that period.
Research Expenditure in Constant 1996 Taka
1800
1,400                                                  -    -iADP Budget
cc 1200
'U                                                       -U-- 200 _ <  ,Revenue Budget
I-1000
.0  800                        -        -         -           Total GOB
600-
4 - - Donor
400
200 -fv                                                   Total GOB and Donor
0
1990   1992    1994   1996   1998   2000    2002
Year (Start of FY)
The total expenditure for agricultural research in real terms including donors is now about 50 percent of
the 2000 peak, which, as can be seen in the chart, was a blip. The Revenue Budget allocation has
declined in real terms since about 1993. This is not surprising since, essentially, the Revenue Budget is
simply a reflection of numbers of staff, and there has been a recruitment freeze. Operating costs come
almost entirely from "projects," either government or donor projects, so there is never a reliable
operaticna'l expenditure platform for sustaining ongoing core work and travel capacity-for example, to
remain n touch with farrners and extension staff to be responsive to new potential lines of enquiry.
2.56   Financial sustainability was inadequately addressed in the Staff Appraisal Report. After two
earlher pro jects that had faced issues of financial sustainability, the SAR should have contained a very
thorough analysis of the history of operating and capital financial allocation by GOB, the prospects for
increases, and, depending on the outcome of that analysis, measures to contain expenditure, for example,
through rationalization of institutes and substations. While allocation of adequate research funds is listed



18
as one of four main risks,24 this refers only to funding during the project period, which has never been the
biggest issue. The appraisal report estimate of annual operation and maintenance costs related to project
investments would call for about Tkl35 million annually in the post-project period. It is difficult to see
where those funds are now provided for since the total government
revenue and development allocation for the year following ARMP    ARMIP sustainability is
closure actually fell by about Tk 190 million over the previous   unlikely. Resources peak
year.                                                             with donor projects and
crash afterwards. After three
2.57    And there are other manifestations of problems with       projects, the argument that
sustainability: the partial collapse of the Farming Systems       what matters for
Research program following the closing of ARMP with a number      sustainability are really
of staff either not being paid or being laid off, widespread      processes not the scale of the
problems with research program operating costs, and difficulties  NARS is difficult to sustain-
with infrastructure and equipment maintenance.                    the scale seems fiscally
unmanageable. Substantial
2.58    The ICR, while raising concerns about sustainability,     pruning is overdue.
argues, "ultimately.. .sustainability... involves using (the) new skills
and procedures to manage the research system within any future
budget envelope..." (emphasis added). While certainly the skills and
procedures developed under the project are of value, sustainability cannot be completely divorced from the
issue of scale. The evidence that has accumulated over the span of three projects suggests that the scale is
simply too big to sustain, at least until private research funding reaches a greater share. The two main
arguments justifying higher levels of expenditure are, first, that the percentage of agriculture GDP spent on
agricultural research is below the average globally and for South Asia, and, second, that there are quite good
economic rates of return. However, after about two decades of problems with funding operating costs, it
may be time to face the reality that a substantial cutback in the number of institutions and substations and
research staff may be unavoidable, but only within a framework that ensures an improved ratio of operating
costs to salary.25
2.59    Indicative of the scale of the sustainability problem, the BARC Vision for Agricultural Research
document projects a need for the year 2003 of about Tk2,350 million, whereas the 2002/03 financial
allocation (still probably considerably higher than the actual), including the donor component, is about
40 percent of this, which raises questions about realism.
2.60    With respect to environmental sustainability, no major problems were observed. Bangladesh has
experienced increasing problems with pesticide impact on fisheries, and research has tried to address this
problem. However, in this case, the solutions lie as much with community-based approaches as with
regulation. On private land the increase in rice-fish systems augurs well for reduced insecticide use.
There are a number of actual and potential problems with shrimp culture, which also have been the
subject of some research. There has been research on integrated pest management and application
through farmer field schools under a DANIDA-supported project. While fertilizer application is rising
24. The SAR simply says. "These risks are addressed as follows:... .A satisfactory arrangement has been made to transfer
adequate allocations to the revenue budget for the project. The government agreed at negotiations that adequate funds would be
made available for the project." There is no analysis of the post-project scenario.
25. The dilemma for the line ministries and for the research service vis-A-vis Finance and Planning in staff and station reductions
is that in a system where operating costs allocation is almost wholly correlated with staff numbers, cutbacks in institutes and staff
numbers are likely to be matched almost exactly by cutbacks in budget allocation. There is no management incentive. What is
needed is a commitment to maintain a budgetary allocation at a certain percentage of agriculture GDP, leaving BARC and the
institutes free to shift those funds between salaries and operating costs. This would require more financial autonomy.



19
and needs rnionitoring, the levels of application are still relatively modest by South Asia standards.
Unbalancecl nutrient use is widely reported, although in the one district where the mission looked at the
aggregate dist-ict fertilizer purchase figures they did not seem to be excessively unbalanced.
Lessons
The following are the main lessons from the two projects:
2.61 The lessons ofprevious projects and the diagnosis of constraints emerging during preparation
should lead to a set of reforms identifying the minimum for an effective and efficient project which should
be clearly articulated in the evolving Bank management documentation Any changes, whether the result of
new knowledge or borrower concerns, should be justified with further analysis and be clearly documented. (In
ARMP, expediency seems to have overtaken analysis, and rationales in the evolution of the design during
preparation and appraisal were not adequately recorded towards the end as the pressure to lend built.)
2.62   Adoption of new unified national extension approaches should be based on evaluated cost-
effectiveness data It pays to maintain experimentation with a number of promising alternative
approaches al different cost levels for a considerable period, if not permanently, since the target is cost-
effectiveness and since resources and technical challenges can be expected to change over time.
2.63   Cutting costs by institutional rationalization-generally calling for the closing of research
stations and substations-is politically difficult, but too seldom faced by either the borrower or the
Bank. It may hold as much potential for improving efficiency as increasing benefits and is a quicker
route to financial sustainability.
2.64   Bank Project Appraisal Documents (PADs) should include: a thorough analysis ofpast capital
and operating cost allocation and donor support to the sector or subsector; a projection of a reasonable
expectation offuture resources availablefrom borrower and donors; leading to a realistic assessment of
the expected financial sustainability in the post-project period Too frequently the focus of appraisal
documents is on counterpart funding during the project but not afterwards.
2.65   Startup workshops and intensive early supervision with a particular focus on procurement can
reduce implementation delays, which can seriously damage the logical coherence and sequencing of a
project A common misconception is that borrower institutions that have implemented Bank projects
before have adequate procurement experience. With the high staff turnover of most government
departments this is rarely the case.
2.66   7he level and rate of introduction of computerized management systems needs to be carefully
matched to the current and realistically projected computer skills and technical support capacity.
Future Directions
2.67   The following selected issues, a number of them long-standing ones from the past, are high
priorities for improved research and extension efficiency in Bangladesh:
*      The: vision for agricultural research in the future should include in particular: greater attention to
the enabling framework and less to the financing of particular research; a central body with
strong skills and authority over funding allocation (as for the University Grants Commission);
incentives for research performance either through substantial independence from civil service



20
rules or substantial civil service reform; a major rationalization including closure of institutes
and substations; improved incentives for research/extension/farmer feedback coordination; and
resolution of the financial sustainability issue.26
*       A review of the adoption level and adoption rate of improved varieties of different release age to
better understand the adoption lag and possible reasons, and to better understand the economic
returns to breeding research.
*       Quick action on the outstanding issues of seeds policy and subsidies with the aim of sustainability.
*      A review of, and decisions on, the future of CERDI.
*      A review of the economic impact of ATI expenditure now and over the next 10 years to assess
the extent to which that investment is impacting on agricultural production.
*      A continuation of experiments in extension methods with strong monitoring of cost-effectiveness
(particularly farmer field schools if these are to be used more widely) with a focus on lowering
costs perhaps through increased audiovisual and information technology means.
26. Probably through some form of government commitment to fund at a certain percentage of agriculture GDP associated with a
phased program to increase the share of private, NGO, user fee, and commodity cess funding.



21                                              Annex A
Anne.x A. Basic Data Sheet
AGRICIJ LTL RA L RESEARCH M4NAGEMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 2815-BD)
Key Projeci Data (,Amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal                Actual or                Actual as percent of
Estimate                 current estimate         Appraisal estimate
Total project costs              59 09                    49 49                    84
Credit arr ouril                 50 00                    42.86                    86
Project Dal es
Original                          Actual
Initiating mernorEindurn'                                           08/19/91
Negotiations                                                        04195
Board Approaial                                                     02/08/96
Signing
Effectivenesn,                    07/31/96                          07131/96
Closing date                      12/31/01                          12/31/01
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
.Actual Weeks                        Actual US$000
Preappraisa                  139 7                               3499
Appraisal/Nisgoliations      44 8                                981
Supervision'                 260 0                               489 6
Completion*                  7 5                                 37 2
Total                        452 0                               974 8
Mission Data
Date     No. of          Specializations represented             Performance rating
'month! Persons                                              impiementation Deveiopment
year)                                                           Status       opjctives
identification/  09/1 991    2                       2AG
Preparation
Appraisal/       04/1995     7                4AG, 1IE, 1 AE, 1 EC
Negotiation
Supervision 1    05/1996     2                     1 AE, 1 AG                       S              S
Supervision 2   02/1997      4                1 AG, 1 IE, 1 DO,1 PS                 S              S
Supervision 3    09/1997     4               1 AG 1 DO,1 00, 1 FMS                  S              S
Supervision 4   03/1998      7            1 AG, 1 DO,1 00,1 FMS, 1 TA               U              U
Supervision 5   08/1998      8     2 AG, 1 00,1 FMS, 1 DO,1 PS, 1 SAES, 1 TA        U              U
Supervision 6   02/1999      8     3 AG, 1 SAES, 1 FS, 1 DO,1 PS, 11 S(FAO-CP),     U              U
Supervision 7   06/1999      2                       2AG                            U              U
Supervision 8    10/1999     7          2AG, 1 AE, 1 FS, 1DO,1 PS,1 TA              S              S
Supervision 9   06/2000      6             2 AG, 1 PS, 1 DO,1 FM, 1 TA              S              S
Supervision 1t   12/2000     7          2AG, 1 AE, 1 PS, 1 DO, 1 FMS, 1 TA          S              S
Supervision 1'  07/2001      8      2AG, 1 EC, 1 DO,1 PS, 1 FMS, 1 TA, 1 RMS        S              S
(FAO-CP)
ICR              01/2002     2           1 RMS (FACP), 1 AE (FAO/CP)
AE -Agricultural Economist AG - Agriculturalist, IE - Irrigation Engineer DO - Disbursement Specialist, PS - Procurement Specialist, OP -
Operations Officei, FNIS - Financial Management Specialist TA - Team Assistant, SAES - Senior Agricultural Extension Specialist, EC -
Economist, FMS - Research Management Specialist, IS -Institutional Specialist, RMS - Research Management Specialist, FA - Financial
Analysl






23                                             Annex A
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT (CREDIT 2233-BD)
Key Projeci Data (Amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal                Actual or               Acfual as percent of
Estimate                 current estimate        Appraisal estimate
Total project costs             59.4                     55 2                     93
Credit amournt                  35 0                     22.7                     65
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY92      FY93     FY94     FY95      FY96      FY97     FY98      FY99
Appraisal estirriate        0 10      7.70     18 90    25 00     30 40     33 00    35.00     35 00
Actual (US$M)                144      2.40      599      822      1144      15.85    21.95     22.70
Actual as percent of appraisal  1440   31       32        33       38        48       63        65
Project Dates
Original                         Actual
Initiating memorandum                                              06190
Negotiations                                                       02/22V91
Board Approval                                                     05/02/91
Signing                                                            06/17/91
Effectiveness                     09/17/91                         12/30/91
Closing date                      06/30/98                         06/30/98
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Actual Weeks                        Actual US$000
Preappraisal                 96.6                                119.1
Appraisal                    46.5                                107.1
Negotiations thru Board     12.1                                 36 0
Supervision*                324 0                                275 0
Completion                   31 1                                1195
Total                        510.3                               656.7



24                                            Annex A
Mission Data
Date      No. of Staff days Specializations    Performance rating
(month/year) persons  In field  represented  impiemeniabon  beveiopment
Status       oajetives
Through            6i69        9                A, PO, Ps
Appraisal
Appraisal          6/90        10              A, Ps, P, F, I
through Board
Approval
Post Appraisal     6/89        9
Appraisal          6/90        10
through Board
Approval
Supervision 1      7/91        3        0        A, i, Ps         S              S
Supervision 2      3/92        2        0         A, 0           HS              S
Supervision 3      11/92       4        0      A, DA, P, Ps       S              S
Supervision 4      4/93        5        0      A, DA, P, Ps       S              S
Supervision 5      4/94        4        0      A, DA, P, Ps       S              S
Supervision 6      1/94        4        0        A, 0, P,         S              S
Supervision 7      11/94       5        0       A, I, P, PA       S              S
Supervision 8      5/95        3        0         A, I, P         S              S
Supervision 9      12/95       3        0      D, PO, SPO         S              S
Supervision 10     5/96        4        0      DS, PO, PS         S              S
Supervision 11     12/96       3       11.0       A, I, P         S              S
Supervision 12     8/97        5       6.0     A, DS, F, I, P     S              S
Supervision 13     7/98        4       8.0        D, F, I         S              S
A=Sr Agriculturalist                                      P = Program officer
D = Sr Disbursement Officer                               PA = Principal Agriculturalist
DA   Assistant Disbursement Officer                       PO = Project Officer
DS = Disbursement Specialist                             Ps = Sr. Program Officer
F Financial Management                                    POS = Sr Project Officer
I Irrigation Engineer                                    PS = Procurement Specialist
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executin Agency,
FOLLOW-ON OPERA77ONS
Operation                                         Credit no.      Amount            Board date
_(USSmi/lon) 
Agricultural Services Innovation and Reform Project  Cr 32840(a  5.0            09/14/1999
LIL)



25                                   Annex B
Annex B: 'Brief Summary of Extension Impact Study Findings
Two extension (mpact studies offer somewhat different findings on impact. One has remained in draft
because Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE) officials have doubts about the methodology and
findings, the other has been formally released. However, neither offers data on actual observed adoption
or incremental incomes from it.
The Extension Services Survey 2000 (ESS2000) Initial and Additional Analysis Draft Report of
December 200 l. based on a survey of 2,787 randomly selected respondents, found that DAE staff
contacted at least once within the last year 7.7 percent of male respondents and 1.7 percent of female
respondents. They may have been visited more than one time. Other department contact rates (fisheries,
livestock, forestry) were lower, between 3.3 percent and 4.5 percent for male respondents and again
much lower for female. The DAE contact rate was substantially higher than NGOs-not surprisingly
since DAE have more staff in the field-but NGOs did better in contacting women. Of those households
that received advice, the percentage that said they will use it next time was high, about 90 percent,
depending on subsector/commodity type, but there are obvious problems with this type of question. Of
those households that had already followed advice, about 90 percent said they achieved good results.
This finding of about a 7.5 percent contact rate is referred to in DAE's Strategic Plan for 1999 to 2002,
which notes that the contact rate had been as high as 15 percent during ASSP but declined due to the end
of World Bank funding for core of extension work. Globally, in developing countries, contact rates of
around 7 to 12 percent have been common.
The Impact Assessment Program Final Report, February 1999, also reports a 7.5 percent participation in
"field extension events." It is not entirely clear what the relationship is between these two sets of findings
showing a -i.5 percent contact rate but following somewhat different definitions. The study found a
participation rate by small and marginal farmer categories and the landless of 61 percent, noting that this
did not reach the target of 70 percent because "larger farmers also attend events." It estimated an
economic rate of return of 48 percent. It found inadequate progress toward the objective of ensuring that
district extensron plans reflected farmers' identified needs. The report also notes a number of problems
with which this assessment largely concurs. It says, "Staff morale and performance is low and the
financial function suffers an acute shortage of senior staff because of inadequate succession planning.
Training management has been ineffective and as a result much of the staff training has not resulted in
improved deli very of relevant messages to farmners; field staff still have difficulty undertaking a truly
farmer oriented, participatory method of needs diagnosis. Targeting criteria and methods of farmer
information needs assessment require overhaul.... Partnerships with other extension providers have not
progressed beyond the supply of limited technical services to NGOs, and DAE staff await directives
rather than take initiatives. These residual attitudes threaten many of the achievements in recent years
and planning, monitoring and work programming systems, which are at the heart of DAE's
implementation of the New Akgricultural Extension Policy, are in danger of slipping back into ritual form
filling.... ASSP can take credit for making considerable breakthroughs which have started to change the
course of agricultural extension in Bangladesh. However the process is at a delicate stage and few, if any,
of the changes are currently sustainable. It therefore now falls to DAE to develop the process further
under the forthcoming Agricultural Services Innovation and Reform Project (ASIRP)."
With respect to farm-level impacts, the same study followed up participants at 71 demonstrations in four
districts in early 1999 and related this to a baseline survey initiated in 1996. (At the peak of the project an
impressive 9 I.,000 demonstrations were held, but this has fallen by at least 50 percent since project
close.) The findings of this study involve quite a number of debatable assumptions and the study
followed only a small sample of those people who were recorded as having actually attended a field



26                                    Annex B
extension event. By extrapolating from the numbers of demonstrations and using assumptions about
numbers of farm households per block, the study concluded that the proportion of farm households
contacted through these events rose from 2.8 percent at the baseline, reached 9 percent in 1997/98, and
then dropped back to 5 percent. However, the report argues that there are many other projects operated
by DAE outside the demonstration program and, therefore, that the number of households contacted
should be doubled. Therefore, the 15 percent target contact rate in 1998 was achieved but was not
sustained and has now dropped back to 7.5 percent, which is consistent with the other study. The study
finds the proportion of demonstrations that targeted small, marginal, or landless farmers was 71 percent.
The study found that 53 percent of participants in these events had a reasonable memory of, and claimed
to have tested, the technology. Of those who tested a technology about 95 percent said they would use it
again the following season. Answers to questions such as this are difficult to interpret. The study
concluded that district extension plans do not yet properly reflect the needs of farmers because of
concerns over the quality of Farmer Information Needs Assessments. The economic analysis carried out
as a part of this study is covered in the section on Efficiency.



27                                 Annex C
Annex C. Comments from the Borrower
MAY 0 4 20
Goveminent orf he peoples republic of Bangladesh
Mrnistry of Agricltur
No- Krishi /Pari-8 /IMEI-.'mnap:pti/a 4t2002/50     Date: 03-05-2003
SubjecLAuiwuItUral Support gorvio-project (Credit 2233JRTly Agdc-jijrat
JisCWAn    MsuqwuraI PAPI";_   (ir.    z 381, RD) P0*j*o;  Pe'In2
Reft. WB kutc datcd Mrch 24,2003
in rceronce to the above mentionod lottr dated 24 Msrch,2003 the
underigned is directed to send herew   the conmants of tho Project Perfomunce
AssessmeAt Report of "AgicQhlWral Research Mt Pr.jcct (Crcdi
2815-BD)" for your kind consideration.
(Saj ida Kbatuiln)
AssisUnt Chief
MS Wahida Iiuq
Somor Operationg OfficCer
World BaRn Offlce,Dhaka
3A Pa riba Dhaka
CMy  or information & ncessary Action:
SpcrctU7
Economic Relations Division
Minisiry of Finance
Shere-Bangla-Nagpr.Dhaka,
(At: Muhanuad Shafiuddin,Assistant Chice)



28                                Annex C
Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
Farmgate, New Airport Road
Dhaka, 1215
Subject: Comments on the Draft Project Performance Assessment Report of
Agricultural Research Management Project (IDA Credit No. 2815-BD)
Si.     Subject        OED Mission's rating &             BARC's Comments
No.                           Comments
1.   Efficacy      Modest in improving efficiency
(para: 2.18 &
2.19)          => Little improvement in staff  =>Under the provisions of National
incentives                     Pay Scale, Limited incentives are
incorporated in the staff service rule
which is under process of approval.
=No rationalization of the      =>Action plans for rationalization has
plethora of institute and       already been developed and
substations                     approved by the Governing Body
which is underway of
implementation.
2.   BARC          Affecting influence on the system
Capacity       =>The new ordinance did more   =>Under the provisions of 1996 Acts,
(para: 2.23)     to clarify BARC's already      BARC reviews the ARI's annual
assigned role than to enhance  research programmes.
its capacity or resource
allocation authority
=>There remained staff          =>In case of BARC, the proposal
vacancies and staff still on the  containing transfer of a total of 261
development budget rather than  posts to Revenue budget has been
revenue budget                  approved by the Co-Chair of the
ECNEC. This is awaiting for
issuance of GOB's final order.
3.  Institutional  Rating modest
Development    =>BARC ordinance restated      =>For the schedule "A" ARIs under
(para: 2.38 &   established role as a           MOA (as per Act 1996, an annual
2.39)           coordinating body with no       block grant allocation may be
budget allocation               provided by the Ministry of
responsibility beyond control   Finance. BARC governing Body
over any assigned grant         will review and allocate budget to
programs                        each ARI based on their priority
programmes.



29                                 Annex C
=>Organizational structure: three  =>For schedule "A" ARIs under
separate ministries retained their  MOA (as per Act 1996) one unified
hold over their own             service rule (revised) is considered
ARIs, and BARC's place and      to be more appropriate which is
remit in the organizational     under consideration. In order to
structure remained essentially  increase effectiveness of the
unchanged i.e., the legal       Executive Council/Governing
relationship between the        body of BARC, necessary
Boards of Management of the     amendments in the Act/Ordinance
independent institutes and the  of BARC and ARIs may be
Executive Council and           recommended.
Governing body of BARC is
not entirely clear
4.   Borrower       Satisfactory but there are
performance    substantial gualifications
(para: 2.50)   =>The borrower bears some
responsibility for not pursuing  => Suggestion/comments given above
more fundamental institutional  (SI. No. 3) may be considered to
reforms                         resolve these issues
=>Bureaucratic procedures
caused numerous delays
= Service rules were never
amended as planned
=> Staffing issues related to the
recruitment freeze and the
failure to achieve the revenue
budget shift constrained
_________    performance
5.   Sustainability  Rated unlikely
(para: 2.55)   =Due to shrinking down the      =>For Sustainability, MOA on
GOB allocation lack of          principle agreed to provide
reliable operational funds for  additional allocation under revenue
core research programs          budget in the form of block grant
hamper sustainability.          for research operational fund to
_ _                       .                       ARIs.






31
Annex D: Comments from the Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock,
Planning and Evaluation Wing
HAY 08 8OO
Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Ministry of Fisherics and Livestock
Plnninv and Eviluation Wing
NO10-MOFL FP-2158/(ASSP/ARMPy2003/44                   Date- 08/C5/2003
Subjiect: Bangladesh-Agricultural Support Service Project (Credit 2t33-BD),
Agricultural Research Management Project (Credit 2:315-BD)-
Project Performance Assessment Report
Kindly refer to the World Bank's letter dated 23.4.03 on the above nientioned
subject. I am pleased to attach herewith the comments of MOFL on the relevent
portion of the subject. This is fbr kind infomnation and nesessary action at yoir end,
Best regards.
Enclosure: As stated.
Your's sincerely
(Ayesha Begum)
Senior f.ssistant
Chief
Tel: 9'50371
\       Wahida Huq,
Senior Opertions Officer,
World Bank Office,
3A Paribagh, Dhaka.
F    wevno  5 13 2 X 0
Copiy for lnformatlon & necessary action:
Secretary,
Economic Relations Division,
MiO Finance, Shere Bangla Nagar, Dhaka.
(Attention: Mr. Mohammed Safiuddin, Assistant Chief)



32                                    Annex D
Governmnent of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock
PlarminK anid EvatuatM Wia2
The ministry have gone through the draft Project Performance Ass;essment
Report on Agricultaral Research Management Project (ARMP) prepared by the
Operations Evaluation Department. World Bank. The report has made an extensive
and in depth analysis of progress of different components of two projects namely
ASSP and ARMP implemented accross the different sub-sectors of agnculture. It also
presentts the inside facts of every refobms and changes that were comiiiitted to
complete during the project implementation period. MOFL's comment on specific
sections of the draft report are as fallows:
Page No.    Sections                     Comments
3.         2.3    (i) In this section under the outcome of the projez,i thc
first sentence regarding the priefornance of ALMP is
rated as "moderately unsatisfactory" it seems tz be a
sweeping comments which does not sustain with World
Bank's Implementation Completion Report (I1CR) of
ARMP (report no. 24349, June 24, 2002). In the ICR of
ARMP, the following important project components
were rated as satisfactory:
*  The achievement of project objectives
*  Research planning and priority setting
*  Contract research
I* nstitutional reforms
* ARI core research programmes
*  Training and Technical Assistance
*  Civil works and equipment
:  Participatory  Farming  Systems  Researc*,  and
linkages, and
a  Overall borrower performance
(ii) The remnark mentioned ind this section is not ruc for
BFRI. The Perfonmance of BFRI was satiE factory
althrough, which has been mentioned in several mission's
report.
1  7.     2.18    Regarding overall efficacy as rated as "modest" it is not
applicable for BFRI. Because BFRI's overall
Performance (procurements of works and goods,
training, TA and research) was quite satisfactory. BFRI's
staffs have been tuansfered to revenue budget. Baard of
Govemor's has been strengthenged by inclusion of two
Member of Parliaments. The Ordinance of BF.U was
l________ amended.



33                                   Annex D
8.        2.20    By Act an Ordinance, BAR  docs not have authoity to
exercise its po"er over the allocation of resources for I
Fisheries and Livestock. It is neither possible nor
desirable and BARC itself does not have any funds to
make such allocations.
YCS        2.67    Comments made in tus section under 'future aii ection' I
closure of institute (s), station (s) and sub-statrxn (s)"
need f&uther assessment and by no means ean be
applicable for the new institutes like BFRJ anc BLRI
_________ where there is need for firther espansion.
Overall comments as made in the Project Performance Assessment Rf port
(PPAR) are satisfactory.
L sop






35
Annex IE: Comments from the Ministry of Agriculture
MAY 1 1 2003
Urient
Govemment of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Ministry of Agriculture
Planting Section-8
No-KrishiIPari-8/IMED-samapta:prati/7(p-1)/2002/51       Date: 08/0512003
Subject: Agricultural Support Service Project (Credit 2233-BD) Agricultural Research
Management Project (Credit 2815-BD) Project Performance Assement Report
Ref: WB letter dated April 23, 2003.
In referance to the above mentioned letter dated April 23, 2003 the undersigned is
directed to send herewith the comments of the Project Performance Assesmnent Report of
"Agriculural Support Service Project (Credit 2233-BD)'' for your kind consideration.
Enl: As above (5 pares).
(Md.
Assistant Chief
MS Wahida Huq
Senior Operations Officer
World Bank Office, Dhaka.
3A Paribag, Dhaka.
Cogv for information & necessary Action:
Secretary
Economice Relations Division
Minisry of Finance
Block - 8, Room No-3.
Sher-e-Bangla-Nagar, Dhaka.
(Att: Muhammad Shaifuddin, Assistant (Chief).



36                                         Annex E
C-oimintiiieis on P-ojecd     P'crformnaue Asscssiaient IRep)oIt
Agricultural Suppout.Services Project
(Cretlit- 2233 1O1))
I'age  P_r_                   Contents                               Commcnts
No.     No.      _                       __                          ____               _   _
5       2.8     Farmier needs assessment, ronli fillinig  For skill development of field staff on
Farmner lnuformatioti Needls Asscssmcntit
(FINA1, a new dcvicc-- use of 'IProblem
Census Card' lhas beenl introduced, whichi
ir practiced, is cxiccted to improvc the
cuality. 'I'lie  complicated  form  fillinig
practice would cease with the replacement
of new formiats whlich arc now being tcstcd
ilPilnt Uptazilas Motcover, titiitiners ani,d
type of monitoring formats now being used
vould(l  he     reduced    considerably
incorporating variotus reqntiri-ements into a
consolidated, simplified  and  abridged
foriniat(s).
5     .9. __.llock lcvel co-ordinatioll             Otlher  o  scrvicc piovidcrs-  suchi as
fishteries, livestock, forcstry do not have
field workers at lblock level. I Iowevei, witli
thte establishmllent of union complex under
lhc local goveonnimcnt, a wider scope is
cxpected to be established throtuglh whlichi
co-ordlination amonig the-representatives of
various agencies vill be strenigtlhenlcd. So
the co-ordinationi and  linkages at tle
iipazila and district level is prevailing and
increasilg. day ylx lay.
Efforts are beilng made to ariaige CO13
fund unlder revenue butdgel for undertaking
nec( haisedi Irainiing prog;amnc for tlec
stll'aiad farnilers.
.     2.10  Contact rate with fanners and produclivity  Present level of contact rate is believed to
imilpact                                fie hiighiC thaii that of 1999, as a restilt of
adoption of grotup approach and otlher
metlhodls.



37                                           Annex E
I '%tc  ;n~                    ('nitte;its -                             ( on).v entIS
Nit.    Nui.
_Productivity has direct conitribtutiont to the
increascdl GCDP.   In    1991-1992   the
agriculluiml gtowti   was   1.7%   wlich
reaclied to 5.1% in 1996-2000. So the
project inierventioni toward productivity,
deFinitcly, played a positive role.
2.1 I   Filling LIp of vacalit positions of BSs     Thle MOA is tryinig to fill tip the vacant
positions of BSs considering the present
sitilationi crcatcdl by continuotis redilction)
of BSs due to normal retiremenit and otlier
reasons. 01 thtc olhel lianid, filling up of
thc vacant lpositions could be justified fni
maniy reasons--no. of farmers increased,
iill oductioll of new crop and new varieties
unider existing crops, increased cropping
inIctisity, promotion of crop diversification
and intensification, encourageinent of
small scale ineclianiizationt, agri-b:sincess
developlmlenlt, etc.
6        2.12   Farmer/Extensioni Staff Ratio               The Department of Agricuiltiral ExIcnsiom
presenitly lhas been working with exisling
rmrner   groups    of   various   parinci
organizations, especially the NGOs. Tlhrce
(lifTcrent models oxf extcnision approaches
are nolW bcing piloted at differeiut locations
in collaboration with otlier tiajor GO and
NGO partners.
All of tliese iiodels have been    fo:m:id
satisVctory at this mid-stage of testing.
considerinig  tiheir  suitability  and  cost
cfleclivicnss.  I lowcvcr,   aflcr  final
evaluation, tile most suitable modcl(s) ntavt
be chooseni for replication to other areas.
Fanrmer Field Schiool approach miglit he
inc:luded Vvith ollier imodcls unde(lrt- pilot



38                                          Annex E
No.     No.
2.1 t'  Staius of tvMIS.                         Slatus ol NIS has unpI1oved considrllably
over the timie. 1lhe personiiels associated
wvilh MIS hias. hy this timc. developc(i
uccessary  skills tlhrough  liamining  and
expetr'eice Now Ilhey are comlipetilt to riuin
IIS in a bietter way, if all ncCcscary
logistics are lrnvicledJ
7      -.17     farining System Research1                Farning system   research has been in
practice in collahorition will diffecrcnt
NARS    organizations. Trh   tund(s  lor
rnniniSg such piogramiis ale lornie by ilc
respective research institiutionis.
It      2.3() T he eHicincy of / A1s &i CE RI)I          Informiiation pFrovi-scII  in this lpai regiardling
the role of Al'ls and CERDI is not
consistent Nvitih the existing situation. Thc
remark matde regardinig Ais as 'Teacher
Training Colleges' is not trie. On an
average abotut 700 agri. diploina arc
produced hy 12 ATIs evcry year. Al Is are
llow  being usedl to produce cliploma ifi
agriculture (4 years), develop KAP for
field  level  workeis   an(l  upgrading
knowled(ge and elliciency of otilier staff
and also for skill development of farmers.
Among the Agri. L)iplonia holdeis miost of
illem  are absorbed  by  the agriculture
related NGOs, semi-govt organizations
and  researcli instittitionis.  Somne  aie
absorbcd in secondlary school as agi;
teach.ers and othiers are self-employed in
agri-business.
Apart.fJroiii this they would be absorbed
.subsciuently by the MOA     recrmitimenit,
once  the  embargo   on  recruitment is
wilhdlrawn



39                                           Annex E
I':ma1r                          Contenlts                                Co* n' ,:ts
N.  _ o   _   ___ 
Ih   DAIE is novw plaiiig for proper
titOiation of CERDL. I lias approved
A\ianikll 'I'rainiung  P'lan  for  impartling
trainiing to the ollicers, slaff and farmers.
All residential tiaininig  courses  tinder
different projects are now  oiganizcd at
CERDI for dcvClopliiig Master I'rai aers
(ToT), refresher courses, etc. Moreover,
attemnpts are beinig nmade to utilize this
inistitute as a self-earning inistiltute by
ofTering appiropriate course(s) as a sotirce
of carniigs.
1 2      2.36 l- edctinti of liSs                            Il  govcrmIeinlt dIecision on freezing of
staff recruitinent has resuilted a shortage of
abomt 9300 BSs against sanctiouicd numbilleer
of 12640. 'Ilie operationial area tinder each
BS was allocated at the beginining of
1980s, based oi (fie croppinig inieinsity.
rmuniher  of lo'farn  Families,  irrigation
coverai!e, etc. 13y this time, both thc
cropping intenisity and numbers of farner
lmouslholds   1have    been    increased
considc-ablv. Besides a good ntitiuber of
new   crops ha c been   introduced, new
varictics of existing cromps-cvolved and
otlier ncw iccliiologies are leing added.
To cope with the clhangied situation rtlliig
Lip thie vicaril positions of B3Ss is a dcinand
of time. DAF is now tryitng o (till tp ilhik
vacanicy with stippoIt firoml1 Minlistry of
Agricutlture (NIOA).
_      _2.47  Procilrenileilt of bicycles.                Neliher  the   priciuremciiet  skill  nor
inc ricielIcy  of  tlie  horrower     ias
tc.9poosihle   ltfo   procturemnieat   ol
"'rmniCcepmabllac" hicyclc   'II l mi l  fia l te
resul(  of t(fe  lSank's  rigid  imposed
piocltme  tient policy  deryitig thle ise's
( oMuut, on I'I'A Rtcq'ui I Im/2                  4



40                                        Annex E
I'. gc  1':lPa:               Contentis            ,                 C,timents
No.     No.                        ._, ^
2.49    "As indicated in thlc ICR, perl`brm! .in Xhis scnicitcc may be rcplaccd by-- As
the early years was disappoinfin1g, maiiily indicatcd in the ICR, performiaice in ilte
(tic to (he lack of ann agccd extensiosi  carly years was slow nminiily (itic to tlie
policy anid sonie inteinial DAR rcsistanice tr;- lack of an agrecd extension policy and
chalige."                               inadequate supervisioni of the project by
ilie IDA. ait lhe initial stage.
7 - .54  Sustainability of sded componcnlt     TICe facilities created during ASSI' at
differcnt ARls are now being used for
production  of' brecdcr and  loundlation
seeds. To sustain the activities of thc
conmponent in DAE, a follow up project
witli GOB stipport is being iiiplemiicntecd
for   production,   preservation   011(1
diistribution of rice and whieat seeds. Tlc
piroject has created a positive impact in thce
availability of qunlity sceds of rice and
wheat for last few years.
2Y0 _    2.6(7  Future'directions                        Directions also for the donor(s) miiighit be
helpful lIr sigccssfti imphminlion of
project(s).
. . . .IC11 .li .'A .   .11. 12 ...c_















Report No.:        25895
Type:     PPAR



