Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY              Report No. 18757
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
Agriculture Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
December 30, 1998
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Taka (Tk)
At Appraisal/June 1990 Tk34.9   =   US$1
At ICR/June 1998 Tk45.0   =   US$1
Intermediate Year annual averages Tk per US$1:
1992193   =   Tk39.3            1995/96   =    Tk4 1.0
1993/94   =   Tk39.9            1996/97   =    Tk42.7
1994/95   =   Tk4O.3
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I hectare (ha) =  2.471 acres (ac)
I kilometer (kin) =  0.621 mile (mi)
I horsepower (hp) =  0.745 kilowatt (kW)
I liter per second (l/s) =  0.035 cubic feet per second (cusec)
I metric ton (ton) =  2,204.6 pounds (lbs)
I meter (m) =  3.28 feet
I cubic meter per second (m3/s) =  35.31 cubic feet per second (cusec)
I millimetre (mm)  -  0.039 inches (ins)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    Asian Development Bank                   1
ASIRP  Agricultural Services Innovation and Reform  | FINA   Farmer Information Needs Assessment
Project                                  FRR         Financial Rate of Return
ASSP   Agricultural Support Services Project      GOB        Government of Bangladesh
ATI     Agricultural Training Institute           ICR        Implementation Completion Report
BADC   Bangladesh Agricultural Development        IDA        International Development Association
Corporation                              MOA         Ministry of Agriculture
BARI   Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute  MTR       Mid-Term Review
BB      Bangladesh Bank                           NAEP       New Agricultural Extension Policy
BJRI    Bangladesh Jute Research Institute        NGO        Non-Government Organization
BRAC   Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee    PIU         Project Implementation Unit
BRRI   Bangladesh Rice Research Institute         PP         Project Proforma
BS      Block Supervisor                          REA        Revised Extension Approach
BSU     Breeders Seed Unit                        SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
CERDI  Central Extension Resources Development    TA         Technical Assistance
Institute                                TAT         Technical Assistance Team
DAE    Department of Agricultural Extension       T&V        Training and Visit
DFID    Department for International Development    Thana    Sub-district or Upazilla
DTW     Deep Tubewells                            Upazilla   Sub-district or Thana
ERR     Economic Rate of Return                   USAID      US Agency for International Development
FAO/CP Food and Agriculture Organization/World
Bank Cooperative Programme               __
Vice President    Mieko Nishimizu
Sector Managers   Ridwan Ali/Michael Baxter
Country Director  Frederick Thomas Temple
Task Manager    Abdul Ghani



Table of Contents  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Preface ..............                                             . ......i
Evaluation Summary ...............                                         ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .                  .......................................1
A. STATEMENTIEVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES .                     ..1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .. .                         1
(i) Technology Transfer   .           .                     .  2
(ii) Training   .                .                          . 3
(iii) Seed Industry Improvement ................... .. .      .3
(iv) Homestead Production                    ... .4
(v) Agro-Business .......................... . . . .
(vi) Technical Assistance             .     .     .     ................  .
(vii) Conclusions                       .. . .6
C. IMPLEiMlENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
THE PROJECT                             ....6
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                      ...7
E. IDA PERFORMANCE    ...
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE                          ...9
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                       ....9
H. FUTLIRE OPERATIONS                    ....  10
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED                       ...10
PART H: STATISTICAL TABLES                     . . . .......... 12
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments .  .     . ............ . .   . 12
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits ...................... . .... . .  .14
Table 3: Project Timetable                  . . . . 14
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and AcmuaL 15
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation . .............................. l5
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation ............. ............. . . . . 16
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project ............... .... . ._. ....  16
Table 8A: Project Costs           ....  16
Table 8B: Project Financing ._.                                  16
Table 9A: Indicative Rate of Return and NPV .. ......................... ... ... - ._17
Table 9B: Base Case Benefit Derivation     .    .     ......._    18
Table 9C: Economic Prices of Rice and Wheat - Mid-1998 ....... .   ....18
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .   ................................... .   19
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .... .   19
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ....... .............. . .. .-_ ..20
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions . ................. . . ...  .  20
APPENDICES
A. Aide Memoire
B. Technology Transfer and Training Components
C. Economic Analysis
D. Impact Assessment of Seed Exchange Programme
E. Summarv Evaluation Report by DFED
F. Preliminarv Internal Evaluation Report on Agricaltural Support Services
Project (ASSP) and Operational Plan by the Department of Agricultural Extenson
(DAE)
MAP: IBRD No. 22658
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherWvise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr.2233-BD)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Support
Services Project, in Bangladesh, for which Credit 2233-BD in the amount of US$35.0 million was
approved on 17 June 1991 and made effective on 30 December 1991.
The  Credit closed on 30 June 1998, the original closing date. Following
disbursements on eligible bills submitted through October 31, 1998, the balance of about US$4.1
million equivalent will be cancelled shortly, when outstanding balances (about $28,000
equivalent) in special accounts are received. In addition there was an earlier cancellation of
US$7.15 million equivalent in March 1998. Co-financing of the project was provided by the
Departrnent for International Development (DFID)l of the Government of the United Kingdom,
and the Government of Bangladesh.
The ICR was prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme (FAO/CP)
mission  which visited Bangladesh in June 1998.  DFID's Summary Evaluation Report is
attached as Appendix E. The Borrower has provided a contribution that is included as Appendix
F.
The ICR is based on a review of project files in Dhaka, documentation provided by
the Borrower and Co-financier, field investigations and discussions with Government and project
staff, interested agencies and the project Technical Assistance Team (TAT). An Aide-Memoire
incorporating the comments made at the mission wrap-up meeting is attached as Appendix A.
At the start of the project DFID was known by its former name Overseas Development Agency (ODA).
2 C.J. Bevan (Mission Leader); R.B. Campbell (Economist); R.G. Gilles (Extension Specialist); and
M. Maurer (Farm Management Specialist).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.        The Agricultural Sector Review in 1988/89 identified the expansion of minor
irrigation as the cornerstone of the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) strategy for growth in
Agriculture in the 1990s. The IDA fully endorsed this strategy and related policies including:
liberalization of input supply and distribution, improvement and reorientation of extension and
research, liberalization of seed imports, improvement of the credit system and development of
private sector agro-business export opportunities. The Agricultural Support Services Project
(ASSP) was part of a matrix of on-going and proposed projects designed to support the strategy
and supporting policies. Key projects included the Shallow Tubewells and Lowlift Pumps Project
(Cr. 2253-BD), the Extension and Research II Project (Cr. 1215-BD), the Second Agricultural
Research Project (Cr. 1455-BD) and the National Minor Irrigation Development Project
(Cr. 2246-BD). A proposed Agricultural and Rural Credit Project to be jointly financed by the
Asian Development Bank (ADB) and USAID did not materialize.
2.        The experiences of the Extension and Research II Project (Cr. 1215-BD) had
highlighted the weaknesses of the Training and Visit (T&V) system of extension in Bangladesh,
in particular the failure of the use of contact farmers as the main outreach mechanism, and the
central generation of messages that failed to reflect local problems and issues. The ASSP was
designed to address these weaknesses and develop a more decentralized farmer orientated
extension service using more effective outreach methods.
Project Objectives
3.        The main objectives of the project were to increase agricultural production (especially
foodgrains) and to initiate the introduction of high value export crops. To achieve these objectives
the project had six components: (i) Technology Transfer aimed at improving the efficiency of
outreach and increasing the coverage of farmers; (ii) Training of Department of Agriculture
Extension (DAE) staff and farmers; (iii) Seed Industry Improvement aimed at improving the
production of breeders seed of rice, wheat and jute; (iv) Homestead Production designed
specifically to demonstrate on-farm and homestead activities for women; (v) Agro-business
aimed at stimulating private sector interest in the export of high value horticultural crops; and (vi)
a Technical Assistance Team (TAT) to assist the DAE with strategic planning and to provide
essential technical expertise.
4.        Following the Mid-Term Review (MTR), at the end of 1994, a number of changes
were introduced. The most important were: (i) the establishment of a task force to finalize the
development and approval of the new agricultural extension policy (NAEP) and implementation
strategy; (ii) the introduction of a farmer to farmer seed exchange service; and (iii) the reduction
of the Agro-business component from three pilot schemes to one much smaller pilot production
trial, and redirection of the role of the Horticultural Export Foundation from direct investment and
provision of credit to provision of catalytic technical services.
ii



5.        There were two special loan covenants expected to promote the achievement of the
project objectives. The first of these (Section 3.01 c) called for a subsidiary agreement between
the Borrower and the Foundation to promote agro-business, allowing for the use of part of the
credit proceeds as a grant and part at concessionary interest rate on credit supplied for piloting the
export of high value crops. The second (Schedule 4-1) required the Borrower to prepare a
programme to improve the effectiveness of the extension staff of the DAE. The minutes of the
negotiations interpreted this as including a plan to reduce the number of DAE staff so as to
achieve greater cost effectiveness.
6.        Evaluation of Objectives: The objectives of ASSP were clearly aligned with the
Country Assistance Strategy and reflected potential opportunities for accelerating rural growth.
The increase in rice output since 1991 in Bangladesh is an indication of the opportunities which
the project's agricultural production increase objective was intended to address. Whilst it is not
possible to correlate this increase directly with ASSP, there are indications that the project has
contributed to a greater awareness of better technology by a larger number of farmers. The recent
success of the Agro-business component serves to confirm the potential for introducing high value
export crops. However the delays and subsequent scaling down suggest that the component, as
originally designed, was perhaps over ambitious, and failed to fully allow for the difficulties
associated with using credit funds channelled through a government-sponsored foundation to
assist the private sector.
Implementation Experience and Results
7.        The project achieved most of its objectives, and made a successful start on the
reduced program for the Agro-business component recommended following the mid-term review.
In particular it has brought about the adoption of the NAEP, and there is general support within
the DAE and the farming community for the new farmer focussed, decentralized bottom up
extension service. Institutional reform of this kind is never easy and the success of the project in
developing and introducing the NAEP should not be underestimated. As part of the NAEP the
introduction of Farmer Infornation Needs Assessment (FINA) surveys, and the development of a
group approach are significant achievements of the Technology Transfer component. The
Training component achieved its basic targets, but much of the field agent training took place
before the adoption of the NAEP and subsequent training of field agents was rather cursory. The
Seed Industry Improvement component can only be considered as partially successful. Thus all
the facilities have been provided to the new breeder seed units (BSU), but these were not fully
staffed by the time of credit closure and there was no revision of the breeders seed pricing policy.
The Homestead Production activity was quite successful in improving nutrition and extension
outreach to women and in demonstrating the benefits to NGOs and DAE of partnership
arrangements. Similar nutritionally targeted activities are being continued under ongoing and
expected future nutritional loans.  The Agro-business/horticultural export activity has been
successful but on a small scale. The TAT made a noticeable contribution to the achievements of
the project, especially the development of the NAEP, the Seeds component and the Homestead
Production component.
8.        As far as sustainability is concerned there is good reason to believe that the NAEP
and its implementation is likely to continue. The MOA and DAE appear committed to the NAEP
and although additional development funding is required to complete training of field staff and
finalize a number of management systems, the ASSP donors (IDA and DFID) have indicated their
interest in providing additional resources. In the longer run the costs of running the NAEP system
should be no more than the cost of the previous system so the GOB should be able to support it
from its regular budget. The sustainability of the BSUs looks less likely. Unless and until the
concerned agricultural research units redeploy staff to the units and they are able to charge a price



for breeders seed that fully covers the cost of production, the future of the BSUs must be in doubt.
To some extent the two issues are linked in that staff will only accept redeployment if they
consider the BSUs are viable which in tum depend on the pricing policy for breeders seed. At
present the MOA does not seem to favour any liberalization (subsidy removal) of the price of
quality seed (certified seed) and until this happens there will be no incentive to remove the
subsidy on breeders seed. The sustainability of the Homestead initiative is likely to be very
variable without continued donor support. In some parts of the country, where there are active
NGOs, these organizations would be expected to continue the partnership programmes using their
own financial resources and farmer groups to access DAE technologies and messages. The
sustainability of the Agro-business component and the Horticultural Export Foundation - Hortex
- established under the project is difficult to assess. On the one hand the leading NGO involved
has recognized the relevance of high value exports and is equipping itself to handle larger
volumes of produce in future. On the other hand, there are only limited signs of private
entrepreneurs following suit, and Hortex will remain dependent on GOB and donor grant funds
until there are a sufficient number of exporters willing to pay the service charges needed by
Hortex.to cover its overheads. Over the next few years additional GOB and donor support seems
likely. However, after that it may be that private entrepreneurs and NGOs will be capable of
running horticultural enterprises without any need for Hortex. This will need to be evaluated at the
time.
9.        At appraisal the total project cost including contingencies was US$59.4 million with
project costs apportioned as follows: IDA US$35.0 million, DFID US$14.7 million (grant) and
GOB US$9.7 million. Actual total IDA disbursement was US$22.7 million or 65% of the SAR
estimate. A more detailed analysis of the disbursement shows that of the four components
supported by the IDA, three were almost fully disbursed, with only the fourth component, Agro-
business, significantly under-disbursed at US$0.5 million compared with an SAR estimate of
US$11.9 million. The balance of the difference between the SAR estimate and actual
disbursement is largely due to lower than expected price increases during project implementation.
An amount of US$7.15 million equivalent was cancelled in March 1998, and a further
cancellation of about $4.1 million equivalent will be made shortly, when the outstanding balances
(about US$28,000 equivalent) in the special accounts are received. In contrast to the IDA
disbursement, the DFID contribution for technical assistance was increased during the life of the
project and is expected to be fully disbursed. (The closing date of DFID financing is March 31,
1999.)
10.       The project as a whole was rather slow in getting started. There was some activity in
the Technology Transfer, Training and Seed Industry Improvement components in the early years
of the project and the TAT was in place from 1992. There was no progress in the Homestead
Production and Agro-business components before the MTR at the end of 1994. To a considerable
extent the slow progress in implementation can be attributed to the lack of a clear extension policy
until the development of the NAEP in 1995/96, and initially inadequate supervision of the project
by IDA. However, progress with Hortex remained slow even after the MTR. This was partly due
to failure of IDA and GOB to agree on the composition of the Board of Hortex, partly because of
difficulties in finding a suitably qualified general manager, and partly because of problems
associated with the establishment of a Special Account by Hortex, which could only be done
when the institution was fully incorporated in 1996.
11.       The performance of IDA was somewhat disappointing in the early years of the project
as indicated by the substantial improvement in project implementation after the MTR when the
IDA supervision became more rigorous and thorough. The IDA has also made strenuous efforts to
assist Hortex since 1996, by funding various technical assistance consultancies. Minor problems
have been reported in connection with the interpretation of procurement regulations (especially
for motorcycles and bicycles) but on the whole both IDA and GOB have managed procurement
iv



well. The GOB performance also improved after the MTR, possibly reflecting the return to
political stability in the country. The other co-financier played a very supportive role throughout
the project allowing considerable flexibility in composition of the TAT and undertaking intensive
impact evaluations of project progress.
12.      Overall the project has achieved most of its major objectives and, on balance, can be
considered as satisfactory.
Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
13.      Findings. The project has led to the reform of the extension service through the
adoption and implementation of the NAEP. It has also contributed substantially to improving the
efficiency of the extension service through the undertaking of a large number of field
demonstrations, an extensive training programme for DAE staff including training of over 11,000
BS, provision of motor cycles, and the construction of some 128 Block Supervisor offices in the
districts. The project has also assisted by supporting a programme of civil works renovation and
equipment supply at 11 Agricultural Training Institutes and the Central Extension and Resources
Development Institute. A total of 8 BSU have been constructed and equipped, and some important
changes have been made to the regulations (seed rules) governing the sub-sector, and a farmer-to-
farmer seed exchange programme has been introduced. The Homestead production component
has had beneficial effects on homestead production and family nutrition, and has demonstrated the
benefit of partnership arrangements at the local level whereby NGOs are able to access DAE
technical knowledge, and NGOs provide DAE with access to effective functioning farmers
groups. The Agro-business activities have been the most difficult, but have recently demonstrated
the viability of high value horticultural exports. Overall the ASSP benefited significantly from
having access to specialist knowledge and advice from the TAT and horticultural consultancy
expertise. An indicative calculation, based on the same parameters used at appraisal, suggests an
overall ERR of 26% compared to a range of between 12% and 50% estimated at appraisal for a
variety of possible assumptions.
14.      Future Operations. Project implementation will continue up to June 1999 financed
by the GOB. In addition DFID funding will continue through March 1999. The DAE has drawn
up an operational plan for the next two years that aims to consolidate the significant achievements
of ASSP. There are indications that both DFID and IDA - through the forthcoming Agricultural
Sector Innovation and Reform Project (ASIRP) - intend to provide further financial support for
the extension service and Hortex.
15.      Key Lessons Learned. Lessons learned as a result of the project implementation
experience are as follows:
(i)  Institutional reform of the kind called for in ASSP can only be achieved when
there is a commitment to change by the key stakeholders (MOA and DAE) and
when there is a formal policy statement (NAEP) and implementation strategy.
This applies also to the Seed Industry Improvement/Breeders Seed component
which is unlikely to become fully operational until a number of policies are
changed.
(ii) Innovative components such as Hortex and the homestead improvement
programmes can only succeed when the officials in charge are committed to the
proposed objectives. In addition, for the Hortex component, a smaller pilot
activity such as eventually accomplished would be beneficial prior to larger
scale expansion.
if



(iii) For projects like ASSP, which contain innovative components, very careful and
intensive supervision is essential. During the first three years of the project
there was only one supervision mission per year. After the MTR, when there
were two supervision missions a year, progress in implementation improved
noticeably.
(iv) This project's achievements in policy and institutional reform benefited from
the services of consultants to assist in developing strategies and addressing
specific technical and managerial issues.
(v)  In the case of ASSP, the shared experiences during the early years of the
project in attempting to implement the initially agreed reforms and a successful
pilot programme under the project helped to create "ownership" for the further
reforms introduced following the mid-term review.
(vi)  In-service training is very beneficial for staff at all levels within a national
extetnsion service, and the most effective training is done at the field level.
Cascade training (in which senior staff are trained, who in turn train middle
level staff who proceed to train junior field level staff) used to train a large
number of middle level and field staff quickly, once the NAEP was approved,
does not appear to have been very successful and should be avoided.
(vii) When individuals are to pay for equipment themselves (such as in the case of
hire-purchase of bicycles by extension agents), procurement requirements
should permit buyer's choice subject to appropriate limitations. In retrospect,
IDA staff should have recommended an exception to the procurement
provisions in the Development Credit Agreement.
vi



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2233-BD)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.        The principal objectives of the project were (i) to increase agricultural production
(especially) food grains and (ii) initiate crop diversification through the introduction of high value
export crops. At the time of project appraisal the IDA and GOB strategy was to develop the
country's agricultural potential through accelerated development of minor irrigation supported by
strengthening related support services (extension and research) and inter-related activities such as
liberalization and deregulation of public interests in minor irrigation, input supply (especially
seeds and fertilizer), credit and support services. The objectives of the ASSP were clearly aligned
with the Country Assistance Strategy and were realistic - in terms of potential to exploit
opportunities and perceived need. To achieve these principal objectives the project was designed
to support an institutional reform process aimed at: (a) making technology transfer more
responsive to farmer needs and improving outreach capabilities so that all sections of the rural
community, including women, had access to improved technology; (b) upgrading extension
training; (c) increasing the availability to farmers of improved seeds by ensuring participation of
private seed companies in the supply of both food and cash crop seeds, and removing restrictive
seed regulations; (d) improving the cost-effectiveness of public sector services through more
efficient outreach services and reductions in staff; and (e) promoting crop diversification and
agro-business opportunities to increase the production options for farming enterprises.
2.        Given the difficulties experienced with the T&V system of extension in Bangladesh,
it was most appropriate that the ASSP was predicated on institutional reform and the development
of more efficient extension approaches.
3.        The objectives conformed with the overall GOB strategy for the sector, and the MOA
and DAE were closely involved in the design of the project. The main body of the project -
development of a more efficient extension service -consisted mainly in the re-orientation of an
existing line agency and its staff. At appraisal a number of risks associated with this were
identified but, as proved to be the case, were not considered to be serious. In contrast the staff
appraisal report correctly identified the agro-business activity as complex and high risk.
4.        There were no major changes in the borrower's circumstances and priorities during
project implementation. The phasing out of the Upazilla Parishad system of local govemment in
1992 resulted in the re-allocation of one of the sub-components of the project - the Upazilla
Special Initiative Funds, without any difficulties.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.        This project was approved in June 1991 and became effective in December 1991
following the signing of an agreement between DFID and GOB in connection with the provision
of project support by DFID. At appraisal it had a total cost of US$59.4 million (Tk 2,399.3
1



million), financed by IDA - US$35.0 million, DFID - US$14.7 million (Grant Aid) and GOB -
US$9.7 million. In addition a grant had been expected from USAID to finance three years of
technical assistance and operational costs of the Hortex foundation but this was not forthcoming.
The IDA credit was scheduled to run for 7 years until end June 1998, and this date has been
adhered to. The project had six basic components: technology transfer (US$19.5 million), training
(US$14.6 million), seed development (US$2.6 million), homestead production (US$5.0 million)
agro-business development (US$11.9 million) and technical assistance (US$5.8 million).
Following a rather delayed start there was a mid-term review in November 1994 that led to some
modification of the project. In particular it was agreed that DAE should proceed to formalise a
new extension strategy/policy as basis for reform of the service that would lead to a
participatory extension approach and partnership arrangements with NGOs and other extension
providers. It was also agreed to introduce a farmers seed exchange system, and that the agro-
business component be reformulated as a single pilot exercise.
(i) Technology Transfer
6.        This consisted of an annual programme of farm demonstrations, funds for: farmer
field days; media campaigns; construction of 128 office cum houses for BS; provision of some
1,400 motorcycles and 10,000 bicycles; and Upazilla Special Initiative Funds (matching funds for
local government generated extension activities).
7.        During the first three years of the project little progress was made in regard to reform
of the extension service.  However there was an increase in the number of traditional
demonstrations  undertaken by DAE, together with the introduction of activities such as
agricultural fairs/field days and the use of extension pamphlets. The programme to renovate or
construct 128 Block Supervisor (BS) office cum accommodation units commenced quite early
and continued throughout the project. In 1994 the first batch of 400 Motorcycles was procured.
A further 576 were procured by late 1996 and the balance, bringing the total to 1400, were
procured in 1997. The distribution of these motorcycles to Thana and District extension staff,
under hire purchase agreements, was successful.
8.        Following the MTR significant progress was made by DAE, assisted by the TA team,
in developing the New Agricultural Extension Policy (NAEP) which was endorsed by the
Minister of Agriculture in August 1996. The key features include a decentralised, bottom-up
approach based on assessing the needs of all farmers, rather than the use of centrally prepared
pre-determined messages, and the use of farmer groups rather than individual contact farmers. In
January 1997 a strategy for the implementation of the NAEP was approved by the Minister. A
key element of the new strategy is devolution of responsibility for determining and planning
extension activity to the newly established Thana Agricultural Extension Co-ordinating
Committee (TAECC), the carrying out of farmer information needs assessments (FINA) and
problem censuses (PC) by BS. As part of the new responsibilities of BS and Thana staff a large
number of farmers ( in the Rangpur region alone nearly 40,000 farmers were trained in 1996/97)
have been given short one day courses in the field.
9.        Recent field assessments have shown that the new approach is  achieving its
objectives of prioritising DAE extension activity towards poorer farmers and rural women.
Furthermore there has been a substantial increase in the uptake of messages/ technology by these
producers, and there are indications that this is leading to increases in output.
2



(ii) Training
10.      This consisted of: renovation and equipment of 10 (later 11) Agricultural Training
Institutes (ATIs) and the Central Extension Resources Development Institute (CERDI); in-service
training for middle and professional level DAE staff; career development training for 5,000 (later
11,000) BS; and an annual farmer training programme.
11.       The intended civil works at the ATIs and CERDI have largely been completed. Much
of the equipment and vehicles for the ATIs and CERDI was procured early in the project. Almost
all the 11,000 BS received upgrading training. The first batch of 6,000 BS only received a few
months residential training, the balance of the course being taught by distance learning. This
training started in mid 1993 and was largely completed by 1996.
12.       To support the NAEP, following the MTR, 9 core modules were prepared by DAE in
consultation with ASSP TA team which were used in a "cascade" system with three levels, to
train all DAE staff from the highest level of management down to the BS. The farmer training
originally proposed under this component was reassigned to the technical transfer component.
13.       Whilst the component has been fully implemented there are a number of concerns
regarding the actual training provided. In the first place the up-grading training received by the
BS was unfortunately undertaken before the adoption of the NAEP with the result that no training
in the new extension approach was provided at this time. Subsequently "cascade" training on
NAEP was provided under which senior staff were trained using core modules, they then trained
middle level staff, who proceeded to train junior level staff (BS). In view of the need to train large
numbers of DAE staff in a short period of time, the administrative decision to use "cascade"
training is understandable, and appears to have been effective as far as senior staff are concerned.
According to the recent evaluation' it was not very effective further down the structure of DAE
and few BS are fully conversant with the required methodologies. It is reported (by DAE) that a
major reason for poor BS training was because no allowances were paid to BS for this training.
Such training should however be seen as part of regular service duty for which no special
allowances should be payable. Extensive additional training of BS will be needed as soon
possible in order to maintain the momentum of the NAEP. Secondly the modules were largely
designed by the ASSP TA team , and it is doubtful whether the DAE Training Wing will be able
to develop the additional modules which will be needed as a result of feedback from the field
(e.g. farmer information needs assessment). This is an area where additional short term
international expertise will be needed. Despite these concerns there is no doubt that, overall, a
large number of DAE staff have benefited substantially from training provided by the project, and
are better equipped to implement the NAEP.
(iii) Seed Industry Improvement
14.      This was the smallest project component although it was funded by the IDA, DFID
and the GOB. The main activities supported were: construction and equipment of nine Breeder
Seed Units (BSU); support for a small seed technology research programme and the provision of
specialist technical assistance. The BSU were to be constructed on stations owned by the
Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute (BARI-4): the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
(BRRI-3); and the Bangladesh Jute Research Institute (BJRI-2). The BSUs were to be staffed by
the redeployment of institute staff, and the whole component was to be supported by changes to
the seed rules to: (i) allow free imports of crop varieties for testing (ii) simplification of varietal
registration and seed importation regulations; (iii) the establishment of a Seed Wing within the
MOA and (iv) the rehabilitation of the National Seed Board.
Evaluation Mission, ASSP Final Report, April 1998, under assignment by DFID.
3



15.       Following on from a fairly slow start, things gathered momentum and as of project
closing eight of the BSUs are virtually complete and equipped. A seed wing has been established
within the MOA and there have been a number of significant policy reforms culminating in the
publishing of the new seed rules in March 1998. However the staffing situation of the BSUs
remains a serious concern. At BRRI a designated seeds division has been established although at
the time of project closure it has effectively only one full time scientific officer against an
establishment of eight posts. At BARI a seed technology division has been approved by the
management board, but this needs to be sanctioned by the MOA and the Planning Commission.
At the time of project closure no formal approval for the establishment of a seed division was in
existence at BJRI. It is difficult to see how the seed component can achieve its objectives without
proper staffing. A second major concern relates to the lack of progress in revising policy
regarding the pricing of breeder seed. Until and unless producers are able to fully recover their
costs, the quality and quantity of the breeders seed will remain wanting.  Overall it is
disappointing that the physical achievements of this component have not been supported by the
necessary policy and institutional changes. At the mid-term review it was agreed that DAE would
initiate a farmer to farmer seed exchange scheme in an effort to speed up the use of improved seed
and the introduction of new varieties. This has been supported by technology demonstrations to
ensure that quality is maintained and BS have been trained in this aspect. Indications of the first
two years of the scheme are that it is popular with the farmers and that it has done much to
improve the general awareness of the value of using good seed. A field survey undertaken by the
ICR mission suggests that there is a significant benefit to farmers from using improved seed
supplied through the exchange programme, but that there are a number of problems in the
management of the scheme (see Appendix D).
(iv) Homestead Production
16.      At appraisal it was anticipated that women programme co-ordinators (560) would be
retrained and subsequently would prepare an annual programme of field days and homestead
demonstrations related to homesteads. Funding for these activities was to be provided from the
Upazilla Special Initiative Funds (USIF). In addition the homestead production component
contained funding to contract NGOs working in this area to enable them to expand their activities.
17.      The women programme co-ordinators did not receive special training and the USIF
were reallocated following the abandonment of the Upazilla scheme in 1992. Contract support for
NGOs was badly delayed and really only began in 1995. Two rounds of tendering for contracts
have been completed. In the first round some 27 contracts were awarded, and a total of 28
contracts were awarded to 26 NGOs in the second batch. The contract funds have been used for a
range of activities including demonstrations of intensive crop and livestock production,
horticultural training for school children and the provision of credit for the poorest category of
farmers. One of the core training modules has been prepared on gender focused extension in
relation to homestead production. An independent evaluation in early 1998 indicated that the
programmes were generally well-run and have resulted in benefits to resource poor women
farmers in particular. In addition to the programme's effects on increasing homestead production
and family nutrition, a major achievement of the programme would seem to be the establishment
of working partnerships between DAE Thana staff and NGOs. The principal advantage of these
partnerships are that they enable NGOs to access DAE technical knowledge on the one hand and
they provide DAE with access to effective farmer groups. Now that the benefit has been
recognised by all parties there would appear to be less need for contract funding through DAE.
Many of the more effective NGOs have adequate resources and incomes of their own and are
likely to finance partnership in the future from these resources.
A



(v) Agro-Business
18.       This component was unique in that it was entirely supported and funded by IDA. Its
objective was to promote the export of high value horticultural crops. The idea was to establish
an autonomous foundation that would develop three pilot schemes. For each scheme the project
would provide packing, storage and transport facilities and inputs for field/crop demonstrations. In
addition the project was to provide grants and a line of credit for all associated costs (revolving
fund). Originally it was expected that the foundation would receive technical assistance and funds
to meet operating costs from a USAID grant for the first three years of its operations. It was
envisaged that once the pilot scheme had successfully demonstrated the commercial viability of
exports, additional schemes would come into operation and that the foundation would become
financially self sufficient as an apex organisation funded by a group of producers and exporters.
Expected USAID financing did not eventuate, and alternative financing for technical assistance
was arranged from IDA's TA 6 (Cr. 2393-BD), and this will continue until June 30, 1999.
19.       There was effectively no progress in the implementation of this component in the first
three years of the project although in 1993 the foundation was formally established as a company
under the 1913 companies act as Hortex Foundation. The MTR recommended substantial down-
sizing of the component with emphasis on a single pilot production and test marketing
programme. In addition, the role of Hortex was to be redirected from direct investment and
provision of credit to provision of catalytic technical services.
20.      In the spring of 1997 a production trial was undertaken in the Comilla District with
the emphasis on extra fine french beans. Production was quite successful. However, during the
season the probationary period of the General Manager of Hortex was not renewed and operations
temporarily ground to a halt. Considerable progress has occurred since the appointment of a new
General Manager in May 1997. Hortex arranged with an NGO (BRAC) to organise a contract
farming arrangement. It also identified markets, selected appropriate varieties, trained BRAC
staff, arranged for the production of export quality boxes, and helped with export logistics. A
second trial was planted in the autumn of 1997 with the assistance of BRAC, and this was
considerably more successful with some 27 tonnes of beans being exported. The quality of the
product was well received and elicited importer interest for increased quantities for the future.
Calculations indicate that the price received would have been adequate to cover all costs other
than HORTEX cost of providing technical assistance.  Plans are well advanced for the
construction by BRAC of a pack house and cold storage in the Comilla district and farmers
appear very enthusiastic about the prospects for the export of non-traditional horticultural crops.
21.       Whilst the most recent experiences of Hortex are encouraging there is no doubt that
Hortex needs considerable assistance and support over the next few seasons if it is to become self
sustaining. In particular it needs to expand the range of produce and buyers in order to ensure that
the volume of business is sufficient to cover its overheads.
(vi) Technical Assistance
22.       This component was predominantly financed by DFID by means of a grant. Most of
the technical assistance was for activities within DAE. In addition there were two specific
specialists provided for in the fields of water management and seeds. A leading UK consultancy
company was awarded the contract to provide the TA. There is no doubt that the TA team has
made a very significant contribution towards the development and implementation of NAEP, and
developed good working relations with DAE staff. Following the initial emphasis on developing
extension policy, implementation methods and training modules, in the latter stages of the project,
the TA team has concentrated on providing institutional/management backup support to DAE as it
consolidates the implementation of NAEP. A key aspect of the NAEP implementation strategy is
5



the use of monitoring and management information systems. Unfortunately these have not yet
been fully implemented and there are indications that further management TA may be needed to
finalise the design and operation of these systems. In addition there would appear to be an
opportunity to provide DAE management with additional corporate planning advice. Furthermore
it is likely that DAE will need advice in the future as it begins to incorporate environmental and
sustainable natural resource issues into its extension programmes as these have been neglected to
date. It is regrettable that the position of water management specialist was only occupied for a
limited period as there is no doubt that training farmers/extending messages in the use of
improved on farm water management techniques is very important. The TA for seeds was
successful, although sustainability of some of the results is uncertain (para. 15).
(vii) Conclusions
23.       Overall the project has substantially achieved most of its objectives, and made a
successful start on the reduced program for the Agro-business component recommended
following the mid-term review. The two components related to extension development,
accounting for some US$34.0 million or nearly 60% of the total project costs, have been fully
disbursed. An indicative economic analysis using the same assumptions as the SAR (see
Appendix C) suggest an EIRR of 26% as compared to an estimated range at appraisal of between
12% and 50%. These estimates include the full costs of the agro-business component, but not the
benefits (which cannot be estimated at this stage).
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
24.       As indicated above implementation was slow in the early years of the project but
gathered pace after the MTR and, with the exception of the Agro-business component, at closure
all components were fully disbursed.
25.       The pattern of disbursements shows a slow start, relative to expectations presented in
the SAR. By the time of the Mid-Term Review (November 1994) disbursements had reached
about 40% of appraisal expectations, and by the time of the last payment disbursements reached
about 65% of the original value of the IDA credit and 82% of the credit amount taking into
account the cancellation of US$7.15 million in March 1998. Upon receipt of the outstanding
balances (about US$28,000 equivalent) in the special accounts, which are expected shortly, the
remaining balance of about US$4.1 million will be cancelled.
26.       The slow pace of disbursements, relative to appraisal expectations, was the result of
the combined effects of a number of factors:
(i)  an unrealistically large amount (SDR 5.2 million) was allocated for sub-loans
to farmers under the agro-business development component;
(ii) a delay of about six months beyond the anticipated date in the declaration of
loan effectiveness;
(iii) a clause in the DCA [Schedule l, para. 3(b)]  that initially restricted
withdrawals for certain training expenditures until after July 1, 1995;
(iv) there was no supervision of the project in 1992, nor does there appear to have
been an implementation workshop to assist project implementation staff of all
agencies with the preparation of a detailed workplan for PYI and to acquaint
them with procurement and disbursement procedures;



(v) bicycles could not be satisfactorily procured and distributed;
(vi) the time specified in the DCA for meeting some implementation
conditionalities was unrealistically short; and
(vii) there were discrepancies between disbursement schedules of the SAR and
GOB's Project Proforma (PP), with the PP in general specifying an extended
period of procurement relative to that of the SAR.
27.       Of the above factors, the over-allocation for sub-loans under the agro-business
development component was directly responsible for a large part of the gap between expected and
actual disbursements. The expectation that a legal foundation could be established, fully staffed
and handle tens of thousands of small farmer loans in a short time turned out to be substantially
over-optimistic. The cost tables indicate that about US$5.5 million of such loans were to be made
in Project Year 3. At the Mid-Term Review (MTR) it was realized that this component would not
be implemented according to SAR expectations and the sub-loan amount was reduced to
US$54,000, a reasonable figure given the difficulties being encountered in establishing a fully
functional Foundation. However, there was no cancellation at the time of the MTR and there was
a consequent overhang of these funds until the cancellation of about US$ 7.15 million in March
1998.
28.       Loan effectiveness was delayed  for several months to enable completion of the
ODA/DFID Grant Agreement for the provision of technical assistance and other services. This
had a minor adverse effect on disbursement performance. Factor (iii) above led to some delays in
the progress of the training program. The restriction was removed as a result of MTR
recommendations in early calendar year 1995.
29.       A number of representatives of the six implementing agencies have noted that an
implementation workshop, held shortly after loan effectiveness, would have been useful in
familiarizing them with the detailed requirements of the lender, especially for Special Account
operations, procurement and preparation of withdrawal requests.
30.       Concerning Factor (v) above, the procurement requirements specified in the credit
agreement constrained the procurement of bicycles that would be acceptable to the recipients who
would obtain them through hire-purchase arrangements. In summary, the intended recipients
refused to accept the bicycles procured through adherence to intemational competitive bidding. A
general point to be noted is that villagers in Bangladesh (as well as elsewhere in Asia) have
formed very strong associations between trade marks and quality, and especially so for relatively
expensive consumer durables such as bicycles. In cases where the recipients are paying for the
item in question, as in this case, procurement requirements should permit the products to be
purchased through buyers choice, subject to a maximum price. A total of 5,020 "unacceptable"
bicycles were procured, out of a planned total of 10,000, but few have been sold to the intended
recipients due to the problem  discussed above.  These bicycles are currently in storage.
Discussions are ongoing with DAE on appropriate arrangements for selling these bicycles at
reduced prices.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
31.       It is considered likely that the extension reform aspects of the ASSP will be sustained.
In the first place there is a clear policy statement (NAEP) and agreed implementation strategy for
extension which is fully supported by the MOA and DAE. Secondly, reports suggest that there is
good support for the NAEP amongst farmers who appreciate the fact that extension activity is
now much more locally focussed. Thirdly there appears to be agreement among the main donors
7



that the NAEP and strategy are appropriate, and they are working in a coordinated manner to
consolidate its achievements. Finally there are indications that future funding is likely to be
provided. Thus in the short term additional funding to finalize the introduction of NAEP is likely
to be provided by IDA and by DFID. In the longer term the operational costs of DAE will be no
more as a result of the NAEP, and the GOB should be able to accommodate these costs in its
regular budget allocations.
32..      The sustainability of the other project activities is perhaps less certain. There is little
evidence to suggest that the MOA will relax its policies regarding the price of breeders seed as
this would require a similar relaxation of price controls for quality/certified seed. At present
BADC Seed Wing depends for its survival on being able to supply quality seed at heavily
subsidized prices, and the MOA remains convinced that farmers need access to this subsidized
seed. Until this policy changes it is unlikely that the BSU established under the project will
become fully operational. The farmer seed exchange programme established under the project is
popular with farmers and appears to benefit farmers economically (see Appendix D) and farmer
demand may help to keep this programme going providing DAE can find the resources to train the
BS responsible for implementing the programme. Activities similar to those supported under the
Homestead Production component are likely to be continued under various financing
arrangements. However, sustainability without continued donor financing is questionable.
33.       The prospects for sustainability of the Agro-business component would seem to be
mixed. In the short run the Hortex foundation's future activities are likely to be financed through
additional IDA funding and MOA support. There is also clear evidence that the Bangladesh Rural
Advancement Committee (BRAC) is committed to expanding horticultural exports from the
Comilla area. However, while there is some evidence of serious interest from other NGOs and
private sector operators, most remain mainly interested in more traditional low value horticultural
exports. This is understandable given the much higher costs and risks associated with exporting of
high value crops. The most likely scenario would seem to be a gradual increase in the number of
exporters and producers of high value horticultural crops. What seems far less certain is the future
of the Hortex Foundation. It is uncertain whether Hortex can become financially sustainable as a
service organization. If Hortex succeeds in developing a brand name and a reputation for quality
that is valued by Bangladeshi exporters, it should be able to become profitable as export volumes
expand. Alternatively if Hortex succeeds in teaching and modelling the skills required by
Bangladeshi NGOs and private sector firms to produce and export successfully without Hortex
services, it will have accomplished its mission. What is clear is that it will need GOB and donor
support for the next few years.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
34.       IDA performance at the project design stage showed foresight and courage. Thus it
was generally recognized at the time that the T&V system was not appropriate for Bangladesh and
the design of ASSP was essentially predicated on developing new methods of extension outreach
and extension service management. Given that the project was innovative and called for
substantial institutional reform, IDA performance immediately after appraisal was disappointing.
In particular there were no supervision missions in 1992, and only one in 1993. However, the
improvement in project progress after the MTR when it was regularly supervised at 6 monthly
intervals bears testimony to the value of good supervision.
35.       Throughout the project the IDA was supportive in interpreting the regulations
regarding procurement and tendering with only one small disagreement with the borrower over
the purchase of some 5,000 bicycles for BS. The Association was very helpful in identifying
0



alternative funding sources for the Hortex consultancies and technical assistance that was
originally to be provided by USAID.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
36.       The performance of the borrower in the early years of the ASSP was a little
disappointing. In part this can be attributed to the lack of a clear and broadly supported policy for
extension and partly to there being considerable resistance in some parts of DAE to the proposed
institutional reform of the DAE. Borrower performance was also wanting as far as the agro-
business component was concerned. Thus the original composition of the Hortex board was
unsuitable and the board failed to find a suitable general manager until 1997.
37.       After the MTR and the establishment of a Task Force to develop an extension policy,
based on a pilot programme in Jessore, the performance of the borrower improved considerably.
The shared experiences during the initial years of implementation and the success of the Jessore
pilot programme helped to create "ownership" for further reforms. The borrowers performance
with regard to the Agro-business activity also improved after the MTR, but not quite so
noticeably. The composition of the Hortex board was altered to bring in greater representation
from the private sector but even towards the end of the project the influence of the MOA in the
operations of Hortex was greater than originally anticipated. The Borrower complied or partially
complied with most of the project covenants and instituted a number of policy changes, especially
with regard to the seed rules, as called for at appraisal..Overall the borrower's performance was
satisfactory.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
38.       The project is considered to be satisfactory on the basis that it has contributed, and is
likely to continue to contribute, to increased agricultural production which was its main objective.
By the same token the largest components of the project - Technology Transfer and Training,
which together accounted for nearly 60% of the cost, were fully disbursed and are considered to
have been successfully implemented. There are also good grounds for considering the NAEP and
its implementation to be sustainable given the commitment of GOB, farmers, and donors to the
new approach. The extension messages were generally environmentally appropriate and
encouraged farmers to apply sustainable agricultural practices, but little was done under the
project to strengthen DAE capacity for envirornmental impact analysis.
39.       The project has also contributed meaningfully, albeit on a very modest scale, to the
second major objective - namely the introduction of high value export crop production. Early
indications from farmers and the leading NGO involved in this activity suggest that exports of
such crops are likely to expand over the next 2 to 3 years. Thus the NGO (BRAC) has invested a
considerable sum of its own money in developing a packing centre at Chandria and in training its
staff. Farmers in the area have shown great interest in growing vegetables for export, many
investing their profits in facilities to increase output in the future (e.g. land and irrigation pumps).
Whilst the export of some high value horticultural crops would seem assured, the scale of the
activity foreseen is well below that envisaged at appraisal. There appear to be indications of some
interest in expansion of the activity in new areas and with additional agencies/entrepreneurs
becoming involved. However, some doubts exist regarding the sustainability of the Hortex
foundation. It is for instance by no means clear whether Hortex will ever achieve financial
independence or indeed whether it will really be needed once a sufficient body of production and
marketing expertise has been established. Nevertheless if Hortex succeeds in establishing the
ground rules for exporting to Europe and if private sector firms and NGOs in Bangladesh become
involved using their own staff and financial resources, Hortex will have accomplished its purpose.
9



40.       Another project component, the improvement of breeders seed production and output,
can only really be considered as partially successful. The Seed initiative has established eight
BSUs, but these are not very likely to become effective or sustainable because of staffing
problems and failure of the MOA to allow them to fully recover their costs. Furthermore there is
(i) little justification for the jute BSUs as over 85% ofjute seed used in the country is imported
from India; and (ii) it is probable that in future more and more farmers will switch to hybrid rice
produced by the private sector not BRRI. The farmers seed exchange programme (SEP), see
Appendix D for details, has been quite successful and may continue providing it receives adequate
support from DAE. The Homestead production component had success in improving nutrition and
extension outreach to women and in establishing partnerships between NGOs and the DAE.
Similar nutrition targeted activities are being financed under an on-going nutrition project, and
expansion is under consideration. Continued donor financing to the NGOs combined with
evidence of mutual benefit to DAE and the NGOs will be expected to keep some joint projects
going. However, in the absence of continued donors funding, the extent of interest would be
expected to decline.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
41.       The GOB funding for the project continues until June 1999, and DFID funding
continues until March 31, 1999. It is therefore probable that much of the project activities will
continue at least until June 1999. There are also indications that both DFID and IDA are likely to
make available additional resources to consolidate the achievements of DAE in introducing the
NAEP. The DAE has prepared a draft operational plan for the next 2 to 3 years (see Appendix F).
Key features of the plan include: (i) the establishment of a Secretariat for the Extension Policy
Implementation Coordination Committee and sub-committees; (ii) the DAE Management
Committee to finalize plans for organizational and financial change especially with regard to
decentralization, (iii) further refinement and piloting of new extension methods, especially farmer
led extension and group approaches, and development of partnerships with NGOs and other
extension providers; (iv) the DAE Training Wing to consolidate training programmes; (v) further
development and introduction of Management Information Systems and Monitoring and
Evaluation procedures for use throughout management of DAE; (vi) raising of awareness
throughout DAE of the agency's environmental responsibilities; (vii) continued development of
the seed exchange programme; (viii) continued emphasis on the needs of women and marginal
farmers; and (ix) integration of the Water Management and Agricultural Engineering Wing more
closely into DAE activities.
42.       Some of these activities and operations will be funded by regular DAE budget funds
but some will require additional development funds. At the suggestion of the ICR mission, DAE
agreed to prepare more detailed funding proposals.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
43.       Lessons learned as a result of the project implementation experience are as follows:
(i)  Institutional reform of the kind called for in ASSP can only be achieved when
there is a commitment to change by the key stakeholders (MOA and DAE) and
when there is a formal policy statement (NAEP) and implementation strategy.
This applies also to the Seed Industry Improvement/Breeders Seed component
which is unlikely to become fully operational until a number of policies are
changed.
1f-s



(ii)  Innovative components such as Hortex and the homestead improvement
programmes can only succeed when the officials in charge are committed to the
proposed objectives. In addition, for the Hortex component, a smaller pilot
activity such as eventually accomplished would be beneficial prior to larger
scale expansion.
(iii) For projects like ASSP, which contain innovative components, very careful and
intensive supervision is essential. During the first three years of the project
there was only one supervision mission per year. After the MTR, when there
were two supervision missions a year, progress in implementation improved
noticeably.
(iv)  This project's achievements in policy and institutional reform benefited from
the services of consultants to assist in developing strategies and addressing
specific technical and managerial issues.
(v)  In the case of ASSP, the shared experiences during the early years of the
project in attempting to implement the initially agreed reforms and a successful
pilot programme under the project helped to create "ownership" for the further
reforms introduced following the mid-term review.
(vi)  In-service training is very beneficial for staff at all levels within a national
extension service, and the most effective training is done at the field level.
Cascade training (in which senior staff are trained, who in turn train middle
level staff who proceed to train junior field level staff) used to train a large
number of middle level and field staff quickly, once the NAEP was approved,
does not appear to have been very successful and should be avoided.
(vii) When individuals are to pay for equipment themselves (such as in the case of
hire-purchase of bicycles by extension agents), procurement requirements
should permit buyer's choice subject to appropriate limitations. In retrospect,
IDA staff should have recommended an exception to the procurement
provisions in the Development Credit Agreement.
11



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives        Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                      ElI                       ED l
Sector policies                    [M                          E            El
Financial objectives                  l          EC]           E 
Institutional development            m                           l          L C
Physical objectives                 [                          El           E
Poverty reduction                                F             El            E 
Gender issues                       E                          EC             El
Other social objectives             E            L             El
Enviromnental objectives            E               ]          E               l
Public sector managementi           [I           E             El 
Private sector development          E               ]         E              m
Other (specify)                     E            E             E             E
B. Project sustainability          Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
C. Bank performance             satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(1)          (1)          (1)
Identification                    El                         El
Preparation assistance               l          E            E
Appraisal                         E                          El
Supervision!                      El              J          El
Substantial achievements in extension reform, but only partial achievement in relatively small seeds component
2  Sustainability likely for the components utilizing the majority of project funds, but sustainability of some
components is uncertain.
3  Good performance at MTR and thereafter is judged to have overcome dificiencies in initial years.
12



Highly
D. Borrower performance           satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(1)          (1)          (1)
Preparation                                       ]         [Z
Implementation                     D                        El]
Covenant compliance               E                         LII
Operation (if applicable)                                    LI
E. Assessment of outcome         satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
(/)          (/)             ((/)
13



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                     Purpose              Year of    Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
1. Extension & Research II (Cr.1215-BD)  To improve extension and      1982      Closed
applied research throughout
most of the country through the
T&V system & by providing
housing, transport and training
for staff; technical assistance.
2. Rural Development II (Cr 1384-BD)                                    1983      Closed
3. Agricultural Training II (Cr 1396-BD)                                1983      Closed
4. Agricultural Research II (Cr 1455-BD)  Strengthening of agric. Research  1984  Closed
station network & BARI;
support to livestock, fisheries &
forestry research; provision of
funds for contract research and
training
Following Operations
1.  Agricultural Research Management                                    1994     Ongoing
Project (Cr. 2815-BD)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                Date planned            Date actualV
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                           June 1990
Preparation                                                          1990
Appraisal                                                            1990/91
Negotiations                                                         22 Feb. 1991
Board presentation                                                   2 May 1991
Signing                                                              17 June 1991
Effectiveness                                   17 Sept. 1991        30Dec. 1991
First trench release (if applicable)
Midterm review (if applicable)                  30 June 1994         Oct. 1994
Project completion                              31 Dec. 1997         30 June 1998
Credit closing                                  30 June 1998         30 June 1998
a! Technical assistance funding continues through 31 March 1999; GOB funding will continue through
30 June 1999.
14



Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY92' FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99
Appraisal estimate         0.10     7.70     18.90   25.00    30.40   33.00    35.00   35.00
Actual                      1.44    2.40     5.99     8.22     11.44    15.85   21.95    22.7
Actual as %ofEstimate       1,440   31.2    31.7    32.9    37.6    48.0    62.7    64.9
Date Final Disbursement a/   10/27/98
a! Final disbursement was made on basis of requests submitted through October 1998 for expenditures incurred
through 30 June 1998.
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key Implementation Indicators in   .          Estimated                     Actual
SAR/President's Report
TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER COMPONENT
I. Staff reductions                                        450                         460
2. Staff reductions; Block Supers                         1,730                     about 1,515
2. On-farm demonstrations                                217,200                     433,000
3. Field Days/Upazilla                                   902,000                     846,000
4. Media campaigns                                          6                           6
5. Union extension centres                                 128                         113
6. Motorcycles                                            1,390                        1,390
7. Bicycles                                               10,000                      5,020
8. Film production                                          na                          na
9. Video communications packages                            64                          64
10. Union equipment packages                              2,500                       11,000
11. Upazilla equipment packages                            460                         468
12. Computers                                              138                         140
TRAINING COMPONENT
I. Renovate ATIs                                            10                          I 1
2. Other facilities                                         10                          11
3 Teaching equipment                                      10 sets                       11
4. Kitchen equipment                                      10 sets                       11
5. Tvs & VCR                                              10 sets                       11 
6. bus                                                      10                          11
7. 4-Wd vehicles                                            10                          11
8. motorcycles                                              20                          22
9. Farm equipment                                         10 sets                       11
CERDI
12. housing                                             4,951 sqm                   3,867 sqm
13.]aboratories                                            LS
14. teaching equipment                                     LS
15.kitchen equipmentl                                      LS
16. Farm machinery                                         LS
17. mini-bus                                                2                           2
18. 4-Wd vehicles                                           3                           3
19. Training materials                                     LS
SEED DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
BARI
- BSU buildings; inclusive equipment, fum.                  5                           4
- pick-ups                                                  5                           5
- computers                                                 1                            1
BRRI
- BSU buildings; inclusive equipment, fum.                  2                           2
- vehicles                                                  2                           2
- computers                                                 1                           I
BJRI
- BSU buildings; inclusive equipment, fum.                  2                           2
- vehicles                                                  2                           2
-computers                                                  1                            1



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(This table is -not applicable to this project)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
(This table is not applicable to this project)
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate                     IDA Financing al
Item               Local    Foreign                 Appraisal Estimate         Actual
Costs      Costs      Total      US$ M        %        US$ M        %
1. Technology Transfer         12.3        3.7       16.0        10.4        65.0       9.4       65.0
2. Training                      9.6        2.4       12.0        7.6        63.7        7.3       64.0
3. Seed Industry Development     1.4        0.8        2.2        0.9        42.3        0.8       43.0
4. Homestead Production         2.1         2.2        4.3        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
5. Agro-Business Development    4.6         5.5       10.1       10.1       100.0        0.3      100.0
6. Technical Assistance         2.4         2.7        5.1        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Base Costs               32.4        17.3       49.7       29.1        58.5       17.8
Physical contingencies           0.2        0.1        0.3         0.2       66.7        0.2
Price Contingencies              6.9        2.5        9.4         5.7       60.6        4.0
|TOTAL COSTS                    39.5       19.9       59.4        35.0        58.9      22.0
a/ As of 21 June 1988.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)         Actual/latest estimate (US$M)a/
Source              Local      Foreign     Total         Local        Foreign    Total
costs      Costs                    costs         costs
IDA                             21.4       13.6        35.0                                   22.7
ODA                              8.5        6.2        14.7                                   22.8
GOB                              9.6        0.1         9.7                                    9.7
TOTAL                           39.5       19.9        59.4                                   55.2
a/ Final accounting of expenditures by GOB and DIFD not available, since their funding continues through
June 1999 and March 1999 respectively.



Table 9a: Indicative Economic Rate of Return and NPV
(Values in US$'000)
Economic Costs              Base Case     Net         As % of Final
Year                                         Net Farm     Project   Adoption    Farm
IDA      GOB      ODA       Total     Benefits    Stream      Area    Benefits
1       1,634      206     1,600    3,440            0     -3,440          0        0
2       2,594      328    2,200     5,121           61      -5,060        3.6      0.3
3       2,945      372    2,200     5,517          266     -5,251       10.7       1.2
4       1,644      208     2,200    4,051          735      -3,316      21.4       3.3
5       3,582      452     2,200    6,234        1,688     -4,546       35.7       7.5
6       5,548      701     2,200    8,449        3,363      -5,086      53.6      14.9
7       2,888      365    2,200     5,453        5,840        387       75.0      26.0
8                  600    2,000     2,600        9,122      6,522       100.0     40.5
9                  400                400        12,729    12,329       100.0     56.6
10                 400                400        16,403     16,003      100.0     72.9
11                 400                400        19,769     19,369      100.0     87.9
12                 400                400        21,938    21,538       100.0     97.5
13                 400                400        22,500    22,100       100.0    100.0
14                 400                400        22,500    22,100       100.0    100.0
15                 400                400        22,500    22,100       100.0    100.0
16                 400                400        22,500    22,100       100.0    100.0
17                 400                400        22,500    22,100       100.0    100.0
18                 400                400        22,500    22,100       100.0    100.0
19                 400                400        22,500    22,100       100.0    100.0
20                 400                400        22,500     22,100      100.0    100.0
21                 400                400        22,500     22,100      100.0    100.0
22                 400                400        22,500     22,100      100.0    100.0
23                 400                400        22,500     22,100      100.0    100.0
24                 400                400        22,500     22,100      100.0    100.0
25                 400                400        22,500     22,100      100.0    100.0
Baseline Case                               EIRR:              26%
Sensitivity Test:
Adoption area and farm benefits       EIRR:             16.9%
each reduced by 25%
17



Table 9b: Base Case Benefit Derivation
Adoption Area at Full Development               300,000 ha.
Net Incremental Benefits/Ha; Full Development  $    75
Adoption Area Phasing                         Benefit Build-Up
Years    % of
Area (ha)            Under      Full
Year       %       annual   Cumulative       Project  Benefits
I        0          0           0             1        0
2        3.6         10,800      10,800       2        7.5
3        7.1         21,300      32,100       3        18.0
4       10.7         32,100      64,200       4       33.0
5       14.3         42,900     107,100       5       60.0
6       17.9         53,700     160,800       6       90.0
7       21.4         64,200     225,000       7       100.0
8       25.0         75,000     300,000
Under the assumptions for the baseline case given above, full project benefits would be realized 14 years after
inception.
Table 9c: Economic Prices of Rice and Wheat - Mid-1988
Rice               US$/t                   Wheat                 US$/t
fob Bangkok, PB 15%                 283   Fob                                     130
quality adjustment factor (%)       0.77   Quality adjustment factor (%)           95
adjusted fob price                   218   Adjusted fob price                      124
freight, insurance                    25   Freight, insurance                      43
cif Chittagong                       243   Cif Chittagong                          167
BDT/t                                        BDT/t
cif Chittagong                    11,222   Cif Chittagong                        7,692
port charges, handling             1,105   Port charges, handling                1,105
Transport & storage                  635   Transport & storage                    635
Wholesale price                   12,962   Wholesale price                       9,432
Transport, handling                  250   Transport, handling                    250
Rice price, ex-mill               12,712   Wheat price, ex-mill                  9,182
Mill storage, margins, packaging     690   Mill storage, margins, packaging       690
Processing charges                   230   Processing charges                      175
Value of paddy in-mill             7,343   Value of wheat in-mill                8,317
Transport farm to mill                95   Transport farm to mill                   95
Farm gate paddy price              7,248   Farm gate wheat price                 8,222
a/ Parboiled rice, 15% broken
b/ cost of milling and parboiling
c/ assuming 65% conversion paddy to rice.
d/ fob any major exporter.
12Q



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Covenant type  Present fulfillment  fulfillment      Description of
Agreement    Section                    status    date        date             covenant                 Comments
DCA, Art. ll   2.02 (b)   General        CD                             Opening 5 Special Accounts    Six year delay in opening
HORTEX SA
DCA, Art. III  3.01 (c)   Subsidiary     NC                             Loan from GOB to HORTEX   Revised at MTR.
agreement                                      for on-lending to farmers
DCA, Art HI    3.02 (b)   Cofinancing    CD                             Employment of consultants   Delayed about I month
DCA, Art III   3.03 (a) &  Subloans      NC                             Subloans to hortiultural farmers No longer relevant;
(b)                                                                                  revised at MTR
DCA, Art. IV   4.01 (b)   Financial      C                              Accounts and audit          Generally acceptable
compliance
DCA, Art IV    4.01 (c)   Financial      C                              Accounts and Audit           Satisfactory to date
DCA, Art. IV   4.02 (a) &  Financial     CP                             HORTEX accounts and audit   Some initial delay; now
(b)                                                                                   satisfactory
DCA, Art. V    5.01      Implementation   CD                            HORTEX operations           Partially relevant
DCA, Art. V    5.03      General         C                              HORTEX insurance
DCA, Sched 1  3 (c)      Disbursement    C                              Withdrawals                 After revision to DCA
DCA, Sched 2  Part E     Implementation   NC                            Agro-business development    Substantially downsized
description                 at MTR
DCA, Sched 3  All        Procurement     C                              Procurement of goods and work Generally satisfactory
DCA, Sched 4   1         Implementation   CD     12/31/91    5/31/92    Extension program plan      Original schedule
amended in 1991 & 1992
DCA, Sched 4  2          Implementation   CD     10/31/91    3/31/92    District Technial Committees;
established
DCA, Sched 4  3 (a)      Implementation   CD     3/31/92     1/31/93    Farmer training needs
assessment
DCA, Sched 4  3 (b)      Implementation   CD     6/30/92    3/31/93    Incorporate training plan into
National Training Plan
DCA, Sched 4  4(e)       Implementation   CD     10/31/91    3/31/92    Provide access to BADC
breeder & foundation seed to
private seed companies
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                        Describe and comnment on lack of compliance   l
No deviation from Operational Manual Statements noted.                                                                  j
19



Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                             Planned                       Revised                      Actual
Project cycle                        P
Weeks           US$           Weeks           US$          Weeks          US$
Preparation to                     n.a             n.a            n.a             n.a        96.6        119.1
Appraisal
Appraisal                          n.a             n.a            n.a             n.a        46.5        107.1
Negotiations through               n.a             n.a            n.a             n.a         12.1        36.0
Board approval
Supervision                        n.a             n.a            n.a             n.a       324.0        275.0
Completion                        14              35.8          21.8             76.0        31.1        119.5
TOTAL                            n.a              n.a           n.a              n.a       510.3       656.7
n.a.= not available to the ICR mission
1/   From Bank records to December 21, 1998
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Perfonnance rating
Stage of                    Number          .         Specialized    Implemen-       Develop-
Project cycle     Month/        of        Days m        staff skills     tation         ment         Types of
year      persons     field        represented       status       objectives     problems
Through appraisal    June 1989      9                    A, PO, Ps              -
Appraisal through    June 1990      10                   A, Ps, P, F, I.
Board approval
Supervision
I .                 July 1991       3           0       A, I, Ps.              S             S
2.                   Mar.1992       2           0       A, D                  HS             S
3.                  Nov.1992        4           0        A, DA, P, Ps.         S             S
4.                   Apr. 1993      5           0        A. DA,P, Ps           S              S.
5.                   Apr.1994       4           0       A, DA, P, Ps           S              S
6.                  Jan.1994        4           0       A, D, P,               S             S
7.                  Nov.1994        5           0       A, 1, P, PA,           S             S
8.                  May 1995        3           0       A, I, P,               S             S
9.                  Dec. 1995       3           0       D, PO, SPO             S             S
10.                  May 1996       4           0        DS, PO, PS.           S              S
11.                  Dec.1996       3          11.0      A, 1, P.              S              S
12.                  Aug. 1997      5          6.0       A, DS, F, 1, P         S             S
13.                  July 1998      4           8.0      D, F, 1.               S             S                  _
Completion                                                                      S             S
A = Sr. Agriculturist        DS= Disbur. Specialist        P =Program Officer            Ps =Sr. Program Officer
D = Sr. Disbur. Officer      F =Financial Management    PA = Prin. Agriculturist         POS = Sr. Project Officer
DA = Assist. Disbur. Officer  I =    igation Engineer      PO = Project Officer          PS = Procurement Specialist



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2233-BD)
APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE
Introduction
I.       An FAO/World Bank Co-operative Programme missionl visited Bangladesh from 8-
22 June 1998 to undertake this assignment. Discussions were held in Dhaka with senior officials
of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), the Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE), the
Hortex Foundation, the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI), the Bangladesh Agricultural
Research Institute (BARI) and with representatives of the Department For International
Development (DFID), the World Bank, and the Technical Assistance team advising DAE. Field
visits were paid to Rajshahi and Noakhali districts (farmers seed exchange scheme), Rangpur,
Dinajpur and Thakurgaon districts (ATI- Tajhat, NGO/Homestead production, DAE technology
transfer), Central Extension Resources Development Institute (CERDI), BRRI and BARI
(breeders seed units), Comilla district (Hortex production site at Chandina and DAE activities).
The mission would like to record its appreciation of all the assistance received in Dhaka and
during field trips.
2.        A wrap-up meeting was held on 22 June, chaired by the Secretary of the MOA, at
which this Aide Memoire was discussed. The salient comments of the meeting have been
incorporated into this Aide Memoire.
Background
3.        This project was approved in June 1991 and became effective in December 1991
following the signing of an agreement between DFID and GOB in connection with the provision
of project support by DFID. At appraisal the project had a total cost of US$59.4 million
(Tk2399.3 million), financed by IDA - US$35.0 million, DFID - US$14.7 million (Grant Aid)
and GOB - US$9.7 million. The project was scheduled to run for 7 years until end June 1998,
and despite a GOB request for an extension this date has been adhered to. The main objective of
ASSP was to increase agricultural production by increasing the effectiveness and efficiency of
the national extension service. The project had 6 basic components: technology transfer
(US$19.5 million), training (US$14.6 million), seed development (US$2.6 million), homestead
production (US$5.0 million) agro-business development (US$11.9 million) and technical
assistance (US$5.8 million).
C.J. Bevan - Mission Leader, R.B. Campbell - Economist, R.L. Gillett - Extension Specialist and M. Maurer
- Farm Management Specialist.



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix A: Aide Memoire
4.        Following a rather delayed start there was a mid-term review in November 1994 that
led to considerable modification of the project. In particular it was agreed that DAE should
proceed to formalise a new extension strategy/policy as basis for reform of the service that
would lead to a participatory extension approach and partnership arrangements with NGOs and
other extension providers. It was also agreed to introduce a farmers seed exchange system, and
that the agro-business component be reformulated as a single pilot exercise.
Mission Findings
General/Financial
5.        Although the design of ASSP  was relatively  straightforward, the project's
implementation has been somewhat complicated by the financing plan and the different phasing
of the funding. Thus some components received support from all three sources (e.g. training and
seed development) whilst the others did not. This had led to some problems with the co-
ordination of equipment supply and construction of civil works. Some confusion also remains as
a result of there being different dates of project closure. IDA support ceases on 30 June 1998,
DFID support continues until December 1998 whilst GOB support continues until 30 June 1999.
6.        Despite considerable improvements in implementation following the mid-term
review, disbursement was lower than expected at appraisal, and in 1998 GOB requested a
cancellation of US$7.15 million from the IDA credit. As of mid June 1998 it is estimated that at
final closure of the credit there will remain a further US$4-5 million undisbursed. Whilst the
technology transfer and training components are fully disbursed total project disbursement to date
is estimated at only 62% of the original credit, or 74% after the cancellation. There have been
few if any difficulties with GOB funding, which has in fact been increased to continue the project
until June 1999. Similarly all DFID funds have been utilised.
7.        Audit reports were submitted annually as required and no significant qualifications
were reported. However examination of some of the audit reports suggests that a number of
minor infractions were committed in connection with tendering and reimbursement, especially of
allowances.
8.        Compliance  with most of the legal covenants was satisfactory although in some
cases compliance was considerably delayed (e.g. staff effectiveness plan) and or only partially
complied with (e.g. staff effectiveness plan, liberalisation of seed imports). To some extent
failure to comply with covenants was due to the fact that reformulation of the agro-business
component made some of the original covenants redundant, although there were corresponding
and appropriate alterations made to the DCA.
Technology Transfer
9.        During the first three years of the project little or no progress was made in regard to
reform of the extension service. However there was an increase in the number of traditional
demonstrations undertaken by DAE, together with the introduction of activities such as
agricultural fairs/field days and the use of extension pamphlets. Following the abandonment of



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix A: Aide Memoire
the Upazilla Parishad system in 1992 the Upazilla Special Initiative Funds were re-allocated to
other components of the project. A programme to renovate or construct 128 Block Supervisor
(BS) office cum accommodation units commenced quite early and continued throughout the
project. In 1994 the first batch of 400 Motorcycles was procured. A further 576 were procured
by late 1996 and the balance bringing the total to 1400 were procured in 1997. The distribution
of these motorcycles to Thana and District extension staff, under hire purchase agreements
appears to be successful. It was originally anticipated that the project would provide 10,000
bicycles to improve the mobility of BS. However problems with procurement of the first batch of
5,000 resulted in bicycles being procured that are, for the most part, unacceptable to the BS.
Some relaxation in the conditions for distribution has brought about an improvement in uptake.
However it is reported that at closure a considerable number of bicycles remain in store
occupying useful facilities and incurring security costs. The mission strongly recommends that
DAE further relax the conditions for distribution including reducing the price to a level known to
be acceptable to the BS. It regrettable that it was decided not to proceed with procurement of the
second batch of bicycles, as many BS live some distance from their place of work and remain
severely constrained by poor mobility.
10.       Following the MTR significant progress was made by DAE, assisted by the DFID TA
team, in developing the New Agricultural Extension Policy (NAEP) which was endorsed by the
Minister of Agriculture in August 1996. The goal of the NAEP is to encourage the various
partners and agencies within the national agricultural extension system to provide efficient and
effective services which compliment and reinforce each other in an effort to increase the
efficiency and productivity of agriculture in Bangladesh.  The key features include a
decentralised, bottom-up approach based on assessing the needs of all farmers, and the use of
farmer groups rather than the use of centrally prepared pre-determined messages. In January
1997 a strategy for the implementation of the NAEP was approved by the Minister. This strategy
sets out the responsibilities and activities of all those concerned in DAE and the other agencies
(NGOs) involved in extension. The strategy called inter alia for the establishment of a policy
committee and a number of strengthened departmental committees at different levels within
DAE. A key element of the new strategy is devolution of responsibility for determining and
planning extension activity to the newly established Thana Agricultural Extension Co-ordinating
Committee (TAECC), the carrying out of farmer information needs assessments (FINA) and
problem censuses (PC) by BS. As part of the new responsibilities of BS and Thana staff a large
number of farmers ( in the Rangpur region alone nearly 40,000 farmers were trained in 1996/97)
have been given short one day courses in the field. This activity was originally to be covered
under the training component.
11.       Recent field assessments have shown that the new approach is  achieving its
objectives of prioritising DAE extension activity towards poorer farmers and rural women.
Furthermore there has been a substantial increase in the uptake of messages/ technology by these
producers, and there are indications that this is leading to increases in output. However it is too
early to quantify these increases.
12.       The sustainability of the new extension approach depends largely on (i) the
continuation of timely availability of adequate funds for demonstrations, fairs etc., (ii) improving
the training of BSs, (iii) maintaining the monitoring and reporting procedures necessary for
ensuring the efficient management of the system as a whole, and (iv) the provision of further
3



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix A: Aide Memoire
technical assistance to consolidate the management of extension at the field level. Despite
attempts to minimise costs the increased range of activities to demonstrate, together with slightly
higher administrative costs, will call for an increase in the DAE recurrent budget. However if
the system is operated correctly there is little doubt that the benefits will substantially outweigh
any additional costs.
13.       The understanding by BS of the core training modules, developed to date by DAE
and ASSP TA team is not adequate to ensure that the systems operates entirely as intended. The
cascade training approach used to train BS was much less effective than anticipated and further
BS training is essential.
14.       The Seasonal Extension Monitoring System (SEMS) developed under the project
generates very large amounts of data, requiring considerable manpower and time to collect and
collate especially when there are limited data processing facilities. Furthermore unless DAE
takes steps immediately to recruit MIS staff in the districts and at headquarters to produce
monitoring report the SEMS will fail to become fully operational. The contribution of the ASSP
TA team in developing and implementing the new extension approach is generally recognised,
and concerns have been raised about the sustainability of the NAEP in the absence of additional
management advice. However the mission considers that many of the major objectives of the
NAEP have now been achieved and the system is fully understood and adopted by DAE. Limited
TA in future is required to (i) provide DAE headquarters with institutional and management
advice and (ii) to consolidate the uptake of the NEAP by District and Thana staff.
15.       Overall it must be said that the project has resulted in the development and adoption
of a new agricultural extension policy. However it has taken a very long time, national
implementation only beginning in 1997, and a number of key aspects have yet to be fully
established.  Initial impact evaluations suggest that the new  system  is a considerable
improvement over the previous system, but that further support is required to ensure long term
sustainability.
Training
16.       The emphasis of this component was on  strengthening the Agricultural Training
Institutes (ATIs) and CERDI and on in-service and career development training. In particular a
third year of training for selected BS, short courses for senior DAE staff and a limited amount of
higher degree training both local and foreign. In addition it was originally intended that each
year 200,000 farmers would receive a one day training course.
17.       The intended civil works at the ATIs and CERDI have largely been completed.
Some of the civil works were started quite early in the project (1993), but civil works continued
throughout the project. Similarly much of the equipment and vehicles for the ATIs and CERDI
was procured early in the project. Almost all the 11,000 BS received upgrading training. The
first batch of 6,000 BS only received a few months residential training at one of 7 ATIs, the
balance of the course being taught by distance learning. This training started in mid 1993 and
was largely completed by 1996. Much of this training took place in the early years of the project
before the NAEP was adopted, and the training received was very technical and theoretical in
A1



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix A: Aide Memoire
nature. The curriculum was determined by the Technical Education Board in consultation with
DAE. Following demand from BS, a second batch were trained using all 11 ATIs. Some 25
senior DAE staff were selected for higher degree training locally, and a number of staff benefited
from short course training overseas.
18.       To support the NAEP, following the MTR, 9 core modules were prepared by DAE in
consultation with ASSP TA team which were used in a "cascade" system with three levels, to
train all DAE staff from the highest level of management down to the BS. The modules cover
matters related to the management, theory and operational practices associated with the NAEP.
The original 9 modules do not cover technical issues. Level one of the training was undertaken at
CERDI, level 2 at the District and level 3 at the Thana. In addition other courses were carried out
in connection with computer operation and management information systems (MIS) related to
the SEMS. The farmer training originally proposed under this component was reassigned to the
technical transfer component.
19.       Whilst the component has been fully implemented there are a number of concerns
regarding the actual training provided. In the first place the up-grading training received by the
BS was unfortunately undertaken before the adoption of the NAEP with the result that no training
in the new extension approach was provided at this time. Subsequently "cascade" training of the
core modules was given to the BS, but according to the recent evaluationl this was not very
effective and few BS are fully conversant with the required methodologies. Extensive additional
training of BS will be needed as soon possible in order to maintain the momentum of the NAEP.
Secondly the modules were largely designed by the ASSP TA team , and it is doubtful whether
the DAE Training Wing will be able to develop the additional modules which will be needed as a
result of feedback from the field (e.g. farmer information needs assessment). This is an area
where additional short term international expertise will be needed. Thirdly the role of the ATIs
under the NAEP is not clear, especially as many of them are no longer being used to train BS.
Given the emphasis on decentralisation and Thana level training of BS, and the role of CERDI in
the training of all senior DAE staff it is not clear what will be the role of the ATIs within DAE in
the future. Fourthly it would appear that much of the higher degree training undertaken in the
first years was not related to the management of extension services which was the intention.
Despite these concerns there is no doubt that overall a large number of DAE staff have benefited
substantially from training provided by the project, and are better equipped to implement the
NAEP.
Seed Industry Development
20.       This component was supported by all three funding sources and was intended to
improve the supply of breeders seed produced by three of the agricultural research institutes
BARI, BRRI and BJRI. It was intended to equip nine research stations with facilities and
equipment to produce, process and store breeders seed. In addition it was anticipated that these
breeder seed units (BSU) would be staffed by redeploying existing ARI staff. To supervise the
component technical assistance was to be provided by DFID. It was also agreed that a seed wing
would be established in the Ministry of Agriculture and that the Government would introduce and
Evaluation Misison, ASSP Final Report, April 1998. Under assignment by DFID.



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix A: Aide Memoire
number of seed policy reforms. There was also a small seed technology research component to
be funded by contract research funds from another ongoing IDA supported research project.
21.       Following on from a fairly slow start, things have gathered momentum and as of
project closing all nine of the BSUs are virtually complete and equipped. The Government has
established a seed wing within the MOA and there have been a number of significant policy
reforms culminating in the publishing of the new seed rules in March 1998. However the staffing
situation of the BSUs remains a serious concern. At BRRI a designated seeds division has been
established although at present it has effectively only one full time scientific officer against an
establishment of eight posts. The mission was assured that steps are being taken to redeploy staff
to fill these vacant posts. At BARI a seed technology division has been approved by the
management board, but this needs to be sanctioned by the MOA and the Planning Commission.
At the time of writing no formal approval for the establishment of a seed division was in
existence at BJRI. It is difficult to see how the seed component can achieve its objectives without
proper staffing. A second major concern relates to the lack of progress in revising policy
regarding the pricing of breeder seed. Until and unless producers are able to fully recover their
costs, the quality and quantity of the breeders seed will remain wanting.  Overall it is
disappointing that the physical achievements of this component have not been supported by the
necessary policy and institutional changes. It is strongly recommended that these changes are
made as soon as is possible or else the achievements of this component will be in jeopardy.
22.       At the mid-term review it was agreed that DAE would initiate a farmer to farmer
seed exchange scheme in an effort to speed up the use of improved seed and the introduction of
new varieties. This has been supported by technology demonstrations to ensure that quality is
maintained and BS have been trained in this aspect. Indications of the first two years of the
scheme are that it is popular with the farmers and that it has done much to improve the general
awareness of the value of using good seed. A field survey undertaken by the mission suggest that
there is a significant benefit to farmers from using improved seed supplied through the exchange
programme, but that there are a number of problems in the management of the scheme. The TA
provided under the project has played a major role in the achievements of the component to date.
The mission considers however that there would be marginal benefit from further technical
assistance to the sub-sector unless the institutional and policy issues are addressed
Homestead Production
23.       At appraisal it was anticipated that women programme co-ordinators (560) would be
retrained and subsequently would prepare an annual programme of field days and homestead
demonstrations related to homesteads. Funding for these activities was to be provided from the
Upazilla Special Initiative Funds (USIF). In addition the homestead production component
contained funding to contract NGOs working in this area to enable them to expand their
activities. The bulk of the funding for this component, including the consultancy TA was funded
by DFID.
24.       The women programme co-ordinators did not receive special training and the USIF
were reallocated following the abandonment of the Upazilla scheme in 1992. Contract support for
NGOs was badly delayed and really only began in 1995. Two rounds of tendering for contracts
IC



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix A: Aide Memoire
have been completed. In the first round some 27 contracts were awarded, and a total of 28
contracts were awarded to 26 NGOs in the second batch. NGOs were selected on the basis of
criteria drawn up by DAE and the TA Team, approved by MOA, following the placement of
adverts in national newspapers.
25.       The contract funds have been used for a range of activities including demonstrations
of intensive crop and livestock production, horticultural training for school children and the
provision of credit for the poorest category of farmers. One of the core training modules has been
prepared on gender focused extension in relation to homestead production. The independent
evaluation in early 1998 indicated that the programmes were generally well-run and have resulted
in benefits to resource poor women farmers in particular. In addition to the programme's effects
on increasing homestead production and family nutrition, a major achievement of the programme
would seem to be the establishment of working partnerships between DAE Thana staff and
NGOs. The principal advantage of these partnerships are that they enable NGOs to access DAE
technical knowledge on the one hand and they provide DAE with access to effective farmer
groups. Now that the benefit has been recognised by all parties there would appear to be less
need for contract funding through DAE. Many of the more effective NGOs have adequate
resources and incomes of their own and are likely to finance partnership in the future from these
resources. In any case, given the goal of decentralisation to the Thana level, DAE-NGO
relationships should also be decentralised and less cumbersome ways devised for organising such
joint activities.
Agro-Business
26.       This component was unique in that it was to be entirely supported and funded by IDA
funds. Its objective was to promote the export of high value horticultural crops. The idea was to
establish an autonomous foundation that would develop three pilot schemes. For each scheme the
project would provide packing, storage and transport facilities and inputs for demonstrations. In
addition the project was to provide a line of credit for all associated costs (revolving fund).
Originally it was expected that the foundation would receive technical assistance and funds to
meet operating costs from an USAID grant for the first three years of its operations.  It was
envisaged that once the pilot scheme had successfully demonstrated the commercial viability of
horticultural exports additional schemes would come into operation and that the foundation
would become financially self sufficient as an apex organisation funded by a group of producers
and exporters. Expected USAID financing did not eventuate, and alternative financing for
international TA was arranged from IDA's TA 6. However, long delays occurred in the selection
of consultants needed to make Hortex operable.
27.       There was effectively no progress in the implementation of this component in the
first three years of the project, and the MTR recommended substantial down sizing of the
component with emphasis on a single pilot production and test marketing programme.
28.       In 1996 the foundation was formally established as a company under the 1913
companies act as Hortex Foundation. In the spring of 1997 a production trial was undertaken in
the Comilla District with the emphasis on extra fine French beans. Production was quite
successful. However, during the season the probationary period of the General Manager of Hortex
'7



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix A: Aide Memoire
was not extended and operations temporarily ground to a halt. Considerable progress has
occurred since the appointment of a new General Manager in May 1997. Hortex arranged with
BRAC to organise a contract farming arrangement. It also identified markets, selected appropriate
varieties, trained BRAC staff, arranged for the production of export quality boxes, and helped
organise export logistics. A second trial was planted in the autumn of 1997 with the assistance of
BRAC, and this was considerably more successful with some 27 tonnes of beans being exported
to the UK, France and Benelux countries. The trial export of a number of summer crops (bitter
gourd, okra, yard long bean, baby pineapple and green chillies) is currently under way. Plans are
well advanced for the construction by BRAC of a pack house and cool store in the Comilla
district and farmers appear very enthusiastic about the prospects for the export of non-traditional
export crops. BRAC also appears convinced that the export of these crops is a viable activity and
has committed substantial resources of its own to the scheme. The achievements of Hortex to
date can be attributed partly due to the establishment of an effective management board and
partly to the considerable consultancy input and to the support of BRAC. Plans are well
advanced to continue activities through to the end of 1998 (The TA being provided under TA 6
has been extended through June 1999).
29.       Whilst the most recent experiences of Hortex are encouraging there is no doubt that
Hortex needs considerable assistance and support over the next few seasons if it is to become self
sustaining. In particular it needs to expand the range of produce and buyers in order to ensure
that the volume of business is sufficient to cover its overheads. However, it must expand
prudently to ensure maintenance of its reputation for quality. At present it is very dependant on
technical assistance provided by grants. Plans should be drawn up to develop Hortex into a
sustainable organisation within a reasonable time frame. This could involve provision of capital
by equity shareholders, representing the beneficiaries of Hortex services. A business structure
plan should be prepared along side the business development plan currently being prepared.
Technical Assistance
30.       This component was predominantly financed by DFID by means of a grant. Most of
the technical assistance was for activities within DAE in addition there were two specific
specialists provided for in the fields of water management and seeds. A leading UK consultancy
company was awarded the contract to provide the TA and staff have been in post since 1992.
There is no doubt that the TA team has made a very substantial contribution towards the
development and implementation of NAEP, and developed good working relations with DAE
staff. Following the initial emphasis of developing extension policy, implementation methods
and training modules, more recently the TA team has been providing institutional/management
backup support to DAE as it consolidates the implementation of NAEP. A key aspect of the
NAEP implementation strategy is the use of monitoring and management information systems.
Unfortunately these have not yet been fully implemented and there are indication that further
management TA may be needed to finalise the design and operation of these systems. In addition
there would appear to be an opportunity to provide DAE management with additional corporate
planning advice. Furthermore it is likely that DAE will need advice in the future as it begins to
incorporate environmental and sustainable natural resource issues into its extension programmes
as these have been neglected to date. It is regrettable that the position of water management
specialist (WMS) was only occupied for a limited period as there is no doubt that training
Q



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix A: Aide Memoire
farmers/extending messages in the use of improved of on farm water management practices is an
issue of great importance. The mission recommends that steps are taken as recommended in the
last supervision mission report to consolidate the establishment of the Water Management and
Agricultural Engineering Wing. Further more there would appear to be an opportunity to provide
DAE with some specialist expertise in this field.
Lessons Learned
31.       From its appreciation of the project as a result of the field work undertaken it would
appear that the key lessons learned include:
-    Project Design. The mission considers that many of the difficulties and delays
experienced by the project can be attributed to a somewhat less than
satisfactory project design. In the first place there was little or no logical
linkage between all the various components, and this meant that there were a
large number of line agencies within the Ministry responsible for project
implementation with no single agency responsible for overall co-ordination.
Secondly although the three funding agencies worked well together, there was
considerable confusion at times within the line agencies, concerning budget
and management responsibilities. Thirdly the failure to fully involve DAE in
the design of the project led to considerable delays in the acceptance of the
project concept by DAE management.
-    Project Implementation. Given the nature of the project design, it is
unfortunate that in the early years of the project it did not receive intensive
supervision by the World Bank.  The improvement in implementation
subsequent to the mid-term  review  and   more rigorous supervision
subsequently is apparent. Government interest and commitment to the project
similarly improve following the mid-term review and the trend towards
normalisation of the political situation.
-    Institutional and Policy Reform. Whilst it is too early to quantify in terms of
agricultural production the success of the project, there is general recognition
that it has been responsible for a major reformulation of extension policy and
strategy. Furthermore there is good evidence to suggest that these reforms
have been welcomed and adopted through out the service and that farmers are
coming forward to seek advice from DAE in larger numbers. Institutional
reform of this type is always difficult and this is no mean achievement. It is
also significant that other donors are now supporting the NAEP and are co-
ordinating their inputs accordingly.
-    "Cascade" Training. This does not appear to have been very effective at the
BS level within the context of,DAE/NAEP
-    Seeds. The achievement of this component demonstrate the importance of an
enabling policy environment and government commitment to change, if there
is to be an increase in production of quality seed.
9



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix A: Aide Memoire
Hortex  Foundation. The experience of Hortex to-date highlights the
difficulties associated with government agencies being involved in commercial
activity. It is recognised that during the early pilot operational phase of Hortex
it will require special support and supervision. However, in the long run its
success will depend increasingly on it having sufficient autonomy to enable it
to function flexibly and commercially.
Follow-Up
32.        The mission expects to complete the ICR and submit it to the World Bank towards
the middle of July 1998. The mission has advised GOB of the need for an operational plan
showing how GOB intends to sustain project activities over the next two years. DAE was advised
of the key elements of such an operational plan, but has not been given detailed guidelines to
date.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2233-BD)
APPENDIX B
TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER AND TRAINING COMPONENTS
1.        This annex provides a review of two areas which were specifically assigned to
Richard Gillett, the extension specialist, as part of the Implementation Completion Report
Missionl of the Agricultural Sector Support Project (ASSP). The specific terms of reference
were:
"To review the institutional reforms of the Department of Agricultural
extension (DAE) and the success of the new approaches to extension
adopted by DAE; and in particular whether the new approaches have
resulted in technology transfer methods becoming more responsive to
farmers' needs. Review of the changes to extension training, extension
methodologies and the management of the extension services. "
2.        It is based on discussions which were held in Dhaka with senior officials of the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), the Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE), and with
representatives of the Department for International Development (DFID), the World Bank, and
the Technical Assistance team advising DAE. Field visits were paid to Rangpur, Dinajpur and
Thakurgaon districts (ATI- Tajhat, Rangpur NGO/Homestead production, DAE technology
transfer) and the Central Extension Resources Development Institute (CERDI).
B. THE PROJECT
3.        The primary objective was to "improve the impact of agricultural support services as
a means to raising the standard of living in the farming community as a whole, irrespective of
gender or land ownership. The needs of women involved in agriculture were to be specifically
addressed".
4.        Subsidiary objectives were; (a) make the technology transfer process more
responsive to farmers' needs; (b) improve the outreach capability of the extension service so that
all sections of the rural community have access to improved technology; (c) encourage the full
participation of private sector seed companies in the supply of both food and cash crop seeds; and
(d) remove restrictive seed regulations so as to provide farmer access to a complete range of
imported improved crop varieties. Through a pilot component the project also aimed at promoting
agro-business opportunities to increase the production options for farming enterprises.
Mission Members:   C.J. Bevan - Mission Leader, R.B. Campbell - Economist, M. Maurer - Farm
Management Specialist; and R.L. Gillett - Extension Specialist.



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix B: Technology Transfer and Training Components
5.         This project has followed on from two previous IDA-supported projects - Extension
and Research (Cr. 729-BD) and Extension and Research II (Cr. 121 5-BD). These were based on
the use of the Training and Visit System (T&V system) which had been advocated by the World
Bank. However, the T&V system "which unfortunately has failed, in Bangladesh, to develop
fully a communications linkage with the farming community" (SAR, 1991) should be examined,
with a view to establishing a participatory bottom-up approach which focused activities and
decision making as closely as possible to the final user.
6.         The ASSP was to be part of a matrix of proposed IDA-assisted operations including
(a) the Shallow Tubewell and Low Lift Pump Irrigation Project; (b) the Agricultural and Rural
Credit Project; and (c) the National Minor Irrigation Development Project.
C. BACKGROUND AND FINANCING
7.         This project was approved in June 1991 and became effective in December 1991
following the signing of an agreement between DFID and GOB in connection with the provision
of project support by DFID. The project was scheduled to run for 7 years until end June 1998 and,
despite a GOB request for an extension, this date has been adhered to. The Technical Assistance
recruitment however was delayed and did not start until 1992.
8.        The principal recipient of the funds was the DAE which is a department of the
Ministry of Agriculture given the task of undertaking extension on all aspects of crop production.
The DAE has its headquarters in Dhaka where it is headed by the Director General (DG) and
supported by various wings covering Field Services, Training, Administration, Project
Implementation, Planning and Evaluation and technical fields such as Plant Protection and Cash
Crops. It is expected that the new wing for Water Management and Agricultural Engineering will
also be sanctioned and become part of the DAE. Field activities are organised from the Regional
level (9 regions), through the Districts (64 districts) to the Thanas (468 thanas) and finally to the
block level. In addition to the DAE other extension providers are the Department of Livestock
Services and the Department of Fisheries.
9.         The project had 6 basic components: technology transfer (US$19.5 million), training
(US$14.6 million), seed development (US$2.6 million), homestead production (US$5.0 million)
agro-business development (US$11.9 million) and technical assistance (US$5.8 million).
IDA       OVA        GOB        Total
A. Technology Transfer         12.7                   6.8        19.5
B. Training                     9.3        3.6        1.7        14.6
C. Seed Development             I.I        0.7        0.8        2.6
D. Homestead Production          -         5.0         -          5     I0
E. Agro-busincss Developmcnt   11.9                    -         11.9
F. Technical Assistancc          -         5.4        0.4        5.8
Total Costs:                 35.0       14.7        9.7       59.4
_ ~~~~~~~



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix B: Technology Transfer and Training Components
D. TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER
t=~~6
30tinate  T atsoa                      reg     PTot                 Total with
Of the Total Baseline expenditure 32% has been allocated to Technology Transfer.
Introduction
10.       The specific goal of the technology transfer component was:
"Making technology transfer more responsive to farmers' needs and
improving the outreach capabilities so that all sections of the rural
community including women, have access to improved technology"
11.       The technology transfer component was always seen as the major part of the project.
In the SAR the proposed activities to be undertaken were listed under six sections:
(i)   General: To provide support to a broader approach to extension outreach
designed to improve farmer responsiveness, increase coverage within the rural
community, and nationally address the requirements of the rapidly expanding
irrigated agricultural sector. Improve cost effectiveness including the reduction
in field officers.
(ii)  On-farm demonstrations: Provide for 36,000 annual on-farm demonstrations.
Demonstrations were to be determined at the District level dependant on local
issues.
(iii) Field Days and Extension Meetings: Allocate funds to enable field days to be
held regularly and establish regular contacts with NGOs, the private sector and
other organisations.
(iv) Media Campaign and Extension Pamphlets: Allocate funds to promote the
production of information to be distributed through the media and for extension
pamphlets.
(v)  Upazilla Special Initiative Fund: This provided matching funds to stimulate
the use of existing funds (GOB) within local government that are assigned to
agriculture, but are normally used for alternative uses.
(vi) Extension Service Facilities: This provided funds for the provision of simple
buildings for BS (2 per district); the purchase of motorbikes and bicycles; and
for some extension equipment (TVs, videos and public address systems).
3



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix B: Technology Transfer and Training Components
Achievements
12.       At the onset of the project there was little attempt to deliver a broader approach to
extension. Instead the main effort was on technical enhancement and undertaking more
traditional extension activities. There was an increase in the number of demonstrations along the
traditional lines of fertiliser and varietal demonstrations, mostly originating from a central
decision. In support of the demonstrations, field days and farmers meeting were introduced into
the programme. One of the main forms of meetings was the Thana Fair which is held annually.
13.       One of the main objectives of the project, incorporated as a conditionality in the SAR
was for the development of programme to improve the effectiveness of the DAE including a
reduction in the number of Block Supervisors (BSs). This in fact, was in direct contrast to the
previous project (Extension and Research II Cr. 1215) which had actually sought to increase the
numbers of BSs. There has been a slight reduction in numbers from the reported initial figure of
12,000 to a current level of 10,800 which has been achieved through a freeze on the recruitment
of new staff. This has left many blocks with no BS and the age profile of the BS getting older.
BS are also still faced with having to undertake many roles outside that of providing agricultural
extension. These include assistance in elections, disaster relief and collection of crop statistics.
14.       A programme to renovate or construct 128 Block Supervisor (BS) office cum
accommodation units commenced quite early and continued throughout the project. By the end
113 had been completed, with the balance being delayed due to land ownership problems. In
1994 the first batch of 400 Motorcycles was procured. A further 576 were procured by late 1996
and the balance bringing the total to 1400 were procured in 1997. The distribution of these
motorcycles to Thana and District extension staff, under hire purchase agreements appears to be
successful. It was originally anticipated that the project would provide 10,000 bicycles to
improve the mobility of BS. However problems with tendering for the first batch of 5,000
resulted in bicycles being procured that are, for the most part, unacceptable to the BS. In support
of the districts and thanas computers, televisions, videos and public address systems have been
procured.
New Agricultural Extension Policy
15.       During the first three years of the project, little or no reform was made to the
extension service. A series of pilots were undertaken by the project looking at different options,
but the results were unable to initiate a change of attitude within the DAE, which was a
prerequisite for change. The pilots did however lead to a discussion paper which set out a
proposed new strategy in July 1994. This strategy was piloted in the Jessore District. The mid
term review in 1994 was in full support of this strategy and supported the proposal to establish a
Task Force under MOA and chaired by the secretary, to review policy and finalise the new
strategy. Finally in 1996 the New Agricultural Extension Policy (NAEP) was approved and
together with "A Strategy for Implementing the New Agricultural Extension Policy" in 1997.
With the acceptance of these two documents, the implementation of major institutional reform
was given a momentum that has seen radical changes in the DAE. This saw the project
transformed from an extension management project to an institutional reform project.



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix B: Technology Transfer and Training Components
16.       The main achievement of the project was the acceptance and the implementation of
the New Agricultural Extension Policy. It is therefore important to consider this in more detail.
The goal of the NAEP is to encourage the various partners and agencies within the national
agricultural extension system to provide efficient and effective services which compliment and
reinforce each other in an effort to increase the efficiency and productivity of agriculture in
Bangladesh. The key features include a decentralised, bottom-up approach based on assessing
the needs of all farmers and the use of farmer groups rather than the use of centrally prepared pre-
determined messages. The strategy sets out the responsibilities and activities of all those
concemed in DAE and the other agencies (NGOs) involved in extension. Part of the strategy
called for the establishment of a policy committee and a number of strengthened departmental
committees at different levels within DAE. A key element of the new strategy is devolution of
responsibility for determining and planning extension activity to the newly established Thana
Agricultural Extension Co-ordinating Committee (TAECC), the undertaking of farmer
information needs assessments (FINA) and problem censuses (PC) by BS.
17.       The goal of the New Agricultural Extension Policy is to:
Encourage the various partners and agencies within the National
agricultural extension system to provide efficient and effective services
which compliment and reinforce each other, in an effort to increase the
efficiency and productivity of agriculture in Bangladesh.
18.       To achieve this goal the policy includes the following key components:
Extension Support to All Categories of Farmers
19.       As a main part to the NAEP, to cover all farmers, the field staff has been given
targets for contacts which are gender and farm size specific. The target set was for 80 % of the
farmers to be small holders (less than one hectare) and for 30% of all of the farmers contacted to
be female. The achievement of targeting the demonstration programme has been set as one of the
Objectively Verifiable Indicators. As a separate aspect to the project an Impact Assessment
Programme (IAP)l study has been undertaken to establish to what extent these targets have been
reached.
20.        Indications from the impact studies show that currently 7% of farmers are being
contacted (against a baseline of 2.8%) through attendance at demonstrations and associated field
days. This is however below the log frame target of 15%. The numbers of demonstrations
installed by the BSs has also increased rapidly during the last two years of the project from an
average of 3 per block to more than 6 in 1996-97. Of those attending demonstrations about 65%
are from marginal and small categories of farmers.
21.       A further indication that the new demonstration programmes are relevant to the
farmers needs is the percentage which now go on to adopt technologies that they see in
IAP is a separate funded consultancy supported by DFID to monitor the impact of the ASSP.
S



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix B: Technology Transfer and Training Components
demonstrations which has reached 50%, however this varied according to the type of
demonstration.
22.        Recent field assessments have shown that the new  approach is achieving its
objectives of prioritising DAE extension activity towards poorer farmers and rural women.
Furthermore there has been a substantial increase in the uptake of messages/ technology by these
producers, and there are indications that this is leading to increases in output.
Efficient Extension Services
23.        This relies on the field staff being trained in the new approaches. This was largely
undertaken by a cascade training system, which trains senior staff, who in turn train middle level
staff who then go on to train the junior field level staff. This was implemented so as to rapidly
train all the staff of DAE. Although the task was a major accomplishment, the understanding and
the awareness of the BSs, to the new approaches has still not been completely achieved. It is
recognised that further training of the BSs is required, so that they are fully aware of the NAEP
and how it should be implemented.
Decentralisation
24.        The key aspect of the NAEP is bottom-up with the decentralisation of the planning of
the provision of extension. This has been partially established with the determination of the
farmers' needs through Farmers Information Needs Assessments and the compiling of this
information into a thana level work plan.
25.        The ASSP has adopted a decentralised allocation of funds along predetermined levels
and within given guidelines. However it does enable district and thanas to control the use of their
allocated resources based on the plans generated locally.
Demand-Led Extension
26.        This is initiated with a Farmers Information Needs Assessment (FINA) which in part
is undertaken using a Problem Census (PC) and with other participatory appraisal techniques. PC
is undertaken by asking selected groups of farmers what they perceive their problems to be and
then to rank these. The results of several of these are then combined to indicate the information
needs of the farmers and accordingly information is sought to overcome the problem either
through local resources or by requesting from other sources information or action to deal with the
problem. The training of the BSs in undertaken these, is a key part of their training. Although
many useful assessments have been undertaken, it is clear that not all BSs are fully trained in
undertaking these and further training is required. At present there is a tendency for BSs to detail
the problems they perceive the farmers to have and not those truly expressed by the farmers.
27.        Despite the problems noted the range of demonstrations in response to the farmers'
problems, has increased with NAEP and the demonstration programme is no longer dominated by
the major crops. Much more attention is now being focused on topics such as IPM, maintenance



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix B: Technology Transfer and Training Components
of soil fertility, vegetable production and homestead production. However many of these new
topics have been identified at a top-down level and have not originated from an identification of a
problem by the farmers.
Working With Groups of All Kinds
28.       In order to increase the contact of the BSs with farmers, it has been advocated that
the farmers should be contacted through groups. Existing groups, such as those formed by NGOs
and for Water Users Associations, would act as an initial focus. The use of NGO groups has
happened in some areas with the NGOs benefiting from the DAE as a source of technical
information, but the linkages are still tenuous.
29.       Most BSs, however, still find it hard to establish groups especially where there is
only a vague point of common interest. A major constraint is the tendency for any group to be
dominated by larger land owners. The establishment of homestead woman groups would appear
to be one area where it has been easier to form groups.
30.       The DAE has realised that many BSs are inadequately trained in this area and are
planning to develop the training further and a short term consultant will contracted to undertake
an assessment of how this can be improved.
Strengthening Extension-Research Linkages
31.       The identification of farmers' problems with no immediate technical solution, are
reported and referred through the system. These problems should be passed on to the research
bodies for them to evaluate and study. The principal contact with the researchers is at the
Agricultural Technical Committee (ATC) level where members from the research bodies are
represented on the committee and at a national level with the National Agricultural Technical
Committee (NATC). At project closure, though, no new reported solutions had been developed
for farmers' problems. However, a pilot programme of contract research with BARI, BRRI, BJRI
and SRTI has been initiated to address some of the problems identified.
32.       In addition field testing/demonstrations undertaken by Agricultural Research
Institutes offers contact at the lower level. However figures presented in the DFID Final
Evaluation have indicated that technologies released by the research system had very low rates of
adoption. This is possibly due to a lack of field-testing and relevancy to farmers' problems. This
shows the need for research to become more clearly focused on farmers' problems by working
with extension to define the farmers research needs.
Training of Extension Personnel
33.       As stated in para. 23 the training of the extension workers in the revised approach is
fundamental to the success of the programme.
7



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix B: Technology Transfer and Training Components
34.       The BSs have been trained on technical issues in their upgrading training.
Knowledge of the NAEP has been provided for, by training undertaken with the cascade
approach. Senior staff has been trained in more depth with the cascade system and tours, study
tours and Masters Degrees undertaken overseas and within Bangladesh.
35.       A detailed assessment of the training component is given in Section E.
Appropriate Extension Methodology
36.       With the development of the NAEP there has been a rapid increase in the numbers
and types of extension methods used. The most common method is still the demonstration, but
this has been backed up by more field days, motivational tours, thana fairs, pamphlets and posters
and other media campaigns.
37.       An indication of the range of extension methods used is provided in Table 1, which
also indicates the numbers and costs for the extension programme for 1997/98 Rabi Season. The
total number of events indicated is high, as for example, the production of each leaflet is
considered an event. The costs of the demonstrations account for about 33% of the total costs.
This is in fact less than suggested in the SAR.
38.       As indicated earlier the numbers of demonstration types and numbers have increased
since the introduction of the NAEP. An example of the increase was seen in the Rangpur region
where in one year over 3000 demonstrations were conducted, covering up to 16 topics in any one
season. These demonstrations are no longer focused on fertiliser and varieties, but cover a range
of other topics such as homestead production, seed storage and commercial fruit and vegetable
production. There has also been a shift from expensive large demonstrations to smaller low cost
demonstrations. This is an important factor when in future funds are likely to be more limited.
39.       Farmer training has become a core extension method. This is principally done in the
field. For groups such as women this is important as they often find it difficult to travel even to
the thana level to undergo training. Training outside of the local area tends to be more elitist and
is more expensive to undertake especially for small farmers where daily income is vital for
survival.
40.       A media cell has been established within DAE to prepare material for dissemination
through mass media, and especially radio programmes.
Integrated Extension Support to Farmers
41.       Through the NAEP it is hoped that farmers will be able to receive support from other
agencies such as Livestock and Fisheries. At present through the TAECC there is limited contact,
with the establishment of a few joint demonstrations such as rice / fish cultivation, but on the
whole there appears to be little interaction between the services.
42.       Attempts to improve the integration of the extension services and ensuring that
NAEP is universally adopted have been made through workshops and involvement in EPICC.
Q



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix B: Technology Transfer and Training Components
Improved Extension Management and Coordination
43.       In order to implement the NAEP, committees have been organised to co-ordinate and
support the activities at the different levels. Two new committees have been formed, one at the
national level and one at the thana/field level. Both are crucial for the effective functioning of the
NAEP. These are supported by monitoring committees at the National, Regional and District
levels. These are responsible for co-ordinating plans and improving communication with other
organisations such as the research bodies.
(i)  National: Extension  Policy  Implementation  Co-ordination  Committee
(EPICC). EPICC was set up as a permanent body of the various extension
providers for the overall co-ordination and implementation of the NAEP. This
was a new committee established expressly for the NAEP. Initially the
attendance for the committee was poor, but at the last meeting most of the
committee attended. The 31 strong membership includes representatives of five
ministries and extension departments, agricultural research institutes,
agricultural boards and cooperations, NGOs and private sector.
(ii)  Thana: Thana Agricultural Extension Co-ordinating Committee (TAECC).
The role of the TAECC is to co-ordinate the extension activities at the thana
level and to minimise duplication of effort whilst addressing the needs of the
rural community in a balanced way. The members of the committee include
the other extension providers such as fisheries and livestock and the locally
represented NGOs. The results of the FINA will provide the foundation for the
preparation of the extension plans by high lighting the problem perceived in the
area and an action plan prepared to counter them.
(iii) Regional: Agricultural Technical Committee (ATC)
(iv) District: District Extension Planning Committee (DEPC)
(v)  Management Committee: The management committee was formed in 1997 to
co-ordinate and manage the different wings and activities of the DAE in
Dhaka.  Members of this committee are extremely satisfied with its
implementation, as it gives all of the members a voice in the management of
the Department and has become more democratically run. It differs from
EPICC in that it is an internal DAE committee.
44.       In addition to these committees a number of practical steps have been taken to
improve extension coordination and management. A manual/guide for extension personnel has
been prepared (in Bengali and English); BS have been provided with diaries for recording day-to-
day activities and problems raised by farmers; and a monthly bulletin is being published by the
districts outlining major extension activities undertaken.
9



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix B: Technology Transfer and Training Components
Integrated Environmental Support
45.       The NAEP supports extension programmes which seek to support and encourage
farmers and farmer groups to apply sustainable agricultural practices.
46.       Many of the demonstrations include aspects of environmental sustainability.
Demonstrations such as the use of sesbania as a green manure, low fertiliser input
demonstrations, and improved composting techniques all attempt to improve the use of resources
and conserve the natural fertility of the land.
Conclusions and Comments
47.       Overall it may be said that the project has resulted in the development and adoption
of a new agricultural extension policy and that there is a real sense of policy ownership by the
staff of the DAE. This has not been done by changing the overall structure of the DAE, but by
changing the way in which it works. Now more decisions are made at the bottom level and the
top levels play a more supportive and managerial role. There has been an increase in the numbers
of farmers contacted with information that is more relevant to their needs and of these a
significant number have been poor or women. Initial impact evaluations suggest that the new
system is a considerable improvement over the previous system, but that further support is
required to ensure long-term sustainability. However it has taken a very long time, national
implementation only beginning in 1997, and a number of key aspects have yet to be fully
established.
48.       The understanding by BS of the core training modules, developed to date by DAE
and ASSP TA team is not adequate to ensure that the systems operates entirely as intended. The
cascade training approach used to train BS was much less effective than anticipated and further
BS training is essential. It has been shown that the use of the cascade system does not function
when it comes to the training of topics such as group formation.
49.       During the Problem Census many problems were identified that could not be directly
solved by the DAE such as the availability of credit or the high cost of inputs. These problems
are supposed to be reported through the system to a level where they can be acted upon. However
it is likely that there will be a considerable time lag, during which the BS are likely to have
repeated requests for these problems to be resolved.
50.       One of the keys to ensuring the understanding of the BSs is site supervision from the
SMOs and other thana staff. This should happen at least twice every season, but in reality is not
happening. The principal point of contact is during the four days every month the BS spends at
the thana level for reporting and training. However other methods of motivating the BSs have
been introduced such as appreciation evenings and giving the BSs the responsibility for the
preparation of their own work programme taking into account the set office days.
51.       The Seasonal Extension Monitoring System (SEMS), developed under the project,
generates very large amounts of data, requiring considerable manpower and time to collect and
1A



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Suppon Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix B: Technology Transfer and Training Components
collate, especially when there are limited data processing facilities. The problems associated with
the vast amounts of information that can be generated are acknowledged by the team, and reviews
are continually undertaken in order to reduce the amount of forms that require completion. In
districts that for some reason do not have functioning computers, the compilation of data is not
feasible unless restricted compilation is undertaken.  Furthermore unless DAE takes steps
immediately to recruit MIS staff in the districts and at headquarters to produce monitoring report
the SEMS will fail to become fully operational.
52.       Within DAE, the ASSP was one of a number of projects funded by donors. The
concepts of the NAEP, developed with ASSP, have now been fully taken on board by the staff of
DAE at all levels. This has lead to them organising co-ordinating meetings with other donors, to
ensure that all new projects conform to this approach. Older projects have some areas that do not
conform, as they are often technology driven, but efforts are being made to bring them more in
line with the NAEP.
53.       Through their involvement in EPICC, other extension providers, such as Livestock
and Fisheries are being included in the development of NAEP. Not all however have taken NAEP
on board as fully as the DAE, and further efforts are required by the MOA to ensure that all
extension providers adopt the same approach. The involvement of the other extension providers
in the provision of extensign with this new approach will help ensure its sustainability.
54.       The devolution of power to the Management Committee and the fact that it is seen to
be running as a committee, has increased the sense of responsibility for the revised approach.
Senior staff contacted all appeared enthusiastic about the new approach and their responsibilities
for ensuring that it was fully implemented and sustained. At a recent Management Committee
meetings the staffing resources of the DAE have been a major point of discussion and a proposal
has been put forward by the DAE for some staff reductions of 2,109 staff. This comprises an
increase in establishment of new posts of 718 and a reduction in old posts of 2,827. Most of the
staff reductions will come from the crop protection wing. Of the 718 new posts most will be at
the ATIs to bring their staff to pupils ratio in line with recommended practices. Other key areas
for increases in staff will be for the monitoring of the NAEP both at HQ and in the Regions. This
key and difficult area shows the determination of the MC to start to tackle key issues that will
improve the efficiency of the department. Before staff reductions can take place this has to be
ratified by the MOA.
55.       However there are some areas where devolution still raises concern. Despite recent
improvements the Management Committee has still limited control over the deployment of staff.
Staff above the level of SMS are deployed by the MOA and not the DAE. In line with this has
been a problem with staff being moved frequently between posts. It is reported that moves are
not so frequent, but still within the senior posts several members are new and have only recently
been posted into their present positions
56.       The contribution of the ASSP TA team in developing and implementing the new
extension approach is generally recognised, and concerns have been raised about the
sustainability of the NAEP in the absence of additional management advice. However the
mission considers that many of the major objectives of the NAEP have now been achieved.
11



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix B: Technology Transfer and Training Components
Limited TA will be required in the future to (i) provide DAE headquarters with institutional and
management advice and (ii) to consolidate the uptake of the NEAP by district and thana staff.
57.        The sustainability of the new  extension approach depends largely on (i) the
continuation of timely availability of adequate funds for demonstrations, fairs etc., (ii) improving
the training of BSs, (iii) maintaining the monitoring and reporting procedures necessary for
ensuring the efficient management of the system as a whole, and (iv) the provision of further
technical assistance to consolidate the mechanisms extension at the field level. Despite attempts
to minimise costs the increased range of activities to demonstrate, together with slightly higher
administrative costs, will call for an increase in the DAE recurrent budget. However if the
system is operated correctly there is little doubt that the benefits will substantially outweigh any
additional costs.
E. TRAINING
Fstimated Costs             Locat           Foreign     Total Baseline      Total with
E.tiae Cs  (in Bangladesh)  (Overseas)   :                 Contingendies
Training                 US$9,600.000     US$2,400.000   USS12.00000      US$14,600,000
Of the Total Baseline expenditure 24% has been allocated to Training.
Background
58.        The support to training can be divided into four main categories:
(i)   General:  This covered upgrading of the ATIs (initially 10, but later also
included Tajhat in Rangpur); and the upgrading of CERDI. The upgrading
included both the physical facilities and transport, with provision of four wheel
drive vehicles and minibuses for all the institutions.
(ii) In-Service Training: This was funding for in-service training of middle and
professional level staff to improve their extension skills
(iii) Career Development Training: A twelve month upgrading course for BS who
had previously undergone a two year diploma and who had shown the ability
and motivation to warrant further training. It was envisaged that this would be
provided for 4,000 - 5,000 BS.
(iv) Farmer and Other Client Group Training: This would provide training for
about 200,000 people annually on one-day courses.
59.        Within the Department of Agricultural Extension training is co-ordinated and
planned by the Training Wing (TW). The training institutes of CERDI and the eleven
Agricultural Training Institutes are administered by the TW with instructors drawn from the
1 '.



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix B: Technology Transfer and Training Components
senior staff throughout DAE. At present there is no cadre of training professionals and many of
the training institutes are under staffed.
60.       In support of this, the ASSP TA team provided a full time training co-ordinator and
additional short-term consultants, who prepared and undertook the initial training.
Achievements
61.       General: The intended civil works at the ATIs and CERDI have largely been
completed. Some of the civil works were started quite early in the project (1993), but civil works
continued throughout the project. Similarly much of the equipment and vehicles for the ATIs and
CERDI was procured early in the project.
62.       In-Service Training: Extensive training both within Bangladesh and overseas was
undertaken as part of the ASSP. In total about 87 MSc courses will have been undertaken in
Bangladesh together with about 19 PhDs. This together with an extensive programme of overseas
training, at MSc levels and with short study tours and courses, has had a significant impact on the
training of the staff (see Table 2). Most of the courses since the adoption of the NAEP have been
closely aligned to the needs of extension management and the other core areas of the project.
However many of the early courses were not necessarily oriented to the development of the
extension services or the other key components of the project i.e. seed development or water
management.
63.       This is a major achievement as in previous projects much of the training available
was not fully utilised. The courses particularly, the short courses and study tours have been well
received and have caused many new ideas to be put forward for consideration. These have been
available for many of the staff at the middle level.
64.       Career Development Training: An initial batch of 6,000 BS were trained at 7 ATIs.
This training was conducted with short periods of attendance at the ATI and then as a distance
learning exercise. The first phase started in 1993, and was completed by mid 1996. Due to
requests by the remaining BS these were included in a second phase of training which was
completed in May 1998. The second phase was conducted at all 11 ATIs. As a result all of the
BS have received up-grading training. The contents for the courses were prepared by the
Technical Education Board in consultation with DAE. Although the course content was
technically orientated it was reported that the practical application of this was included after
criticism of this in the mid-tern review.
65.       Farmer and Other Client Group Training: The training under this was transferred
to the technology transfer component and so has been reported there.
13



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix B: Technology Transfer and Training Components
New Agricultural Extension Policy
66.       Following the adoption of the New Agricultural Extension Policy (NAEP) all staff
were given training on the core elements of the policy. Nine core modules were prepared by
DAE in consultation with ASSP TA team and the training consultants, which were used in a
"cascade" system, to train all DAE staff from the highest level of management down to the BS.
This was undertaken at three levels, level one of the training was undertaken at CERDI, level 2 at
the District and level 3 at the Thana. For the three levels of the training manuals were produced,
reflecting the level of understanding and information, each group would require. The cascade
system was adopted to enable all the DAE staff, including those based at CERDI and the ATIs, to
be trained quickly. In the system, the senior staff trained at CERDI received lengthy training
from the master trainers. It was hoped that when these staff went on to train the middle level staff
that with the support of the training modules a full understanding would be passed on and
likewise from the middle level staff to the junior staff. However at the third level of training, due
to the dilution of the information, the limited time and poorer training facilities, much of the
content was not effectively passed on. This was especially true for topics that could only be
passed on through practical application, such as the formation of groups and conducting FINAs.
67.       The modules listed below cover matters related to the management, theory and
operational practices associated with the NAEP, they do not cover technical issues:
-    Extension Approach Orientation;
-    Group Approaches;
-    Farmer Information Needs Assessment (FINA);
-    Problem Census (PC), Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA);
-    District and Thana Planning;
-    Applied Gender Sensitive Extension Programming;
-    Media and Communication;
-    Monitoring and Evaluation;
-    Seasonal Extension Monitoring Systems (SEMS) and Knowledge Attitude and
Practice (KAP) assessments;
-    Extension Methods Alternatives; and
-    District and Thana Training Systems.
68.       A consolidation course, initiated by DAE, was conducted covering all of the core
subjects. This was necessary to link the different components of the core courses and emphasise
the main points, but as yet has not been given to the BSs.
69.       Several other courses have also been prepared in addition to these core courses. For
the BSs this has included courses on "The Use of BS Diaries" and "Collecting and Documenting



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix B: Technology Transfer and Training Components
Farmer Information Needs". However a view was expressed that the training did not fully equip
the BSs with how to cope with the change in role or attitude required to undertake the new role.
70.       In addition other course were carried out in connection with computer operation and
management information systems (MIS) related to the SEMS. Computer operators and other staff
have been trained in the inputting of data and the basic analysis of the information. The analysis
of the data however requires further training so it can be effectively used for management.
71.       At present most of the core courses have been developed largely by the TA team and
the foreign consultancy team. Recently however local professors prepared a course for
environmental awareness. It is hoped that this indicates an ability to prepare courses for future
modules.
72.       Master Training Plans have become an annual task that has been undertaken by the
Training Wing. These not only detail the training undertaken by ASSP, but for other projects in
DAE. However some conflict has been reported between the training proposed in the Master
Plan and that undertaken by the other projects and it is important for further collaboration to
occur to reduce conflicts and overlaps.
73.       The use of ATIs to conduct these courses was limited by the fact that the ATIs were
fully booked with the upgrading courses and the new diploma courses that they had started. The
speed that the training had to be undertaken with was also a factor in advocating the level 3
training to be undertaken at the thana.
74.       The future role of the ATIs has recently been examined by a local consultancy. At
present they are largely used to undertake diploma-training courses for teachers who conduct
agricultural training in schools. There are plans to undertake some BS upgrading in the future and
some farmer training. This will however be limited by the numbers that the ATIs can
accommodate. At present they are supposed to accommodate on average 250 students at any one
time, 150 of these places will be for long term diploma students, 50 will be for BS undergoing
training and 50 places would be for farmers attending short courses. Although technical lecturers
from research centres can provide some support for the training, the shortage of other instructors
will continue to limit the training available. The Training Wing has included in the 1998-99
programme courses of about 7 days to conduct consolidation training courses for the BSs.
Conclusions
75.       Whilst the component has been fully implemented, there are a number of concerns
regarding the actual training provided. In the first place the up-grading training received by the
BS was unfortunately undertaken before the adoption of the NAEP with the result that no training
in the new extension approach was provided at this time. Although the up-grading has raised the
technical knowledge of the BS and has raised the moral of the staff who are now able to receive
better entitlements, considerable resources have been spent, that might have been better used to
train the BSs in the new approach under NAEP.
15



Implementation Completion Repon
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix B: Technology Transfer and Training Components
76.       The "cascade" training of the core modules given to the BS in the recent evaluation
undertakenl, showed that it was not very effective and few BS are fully conversant with the
required methodologies. The use of the cascade system for interactive skill training such as the
formation of groups has been shown to be ineffective. Extensive additional training of BS will be
needed, as soon possible, in order to maintain the momentum of the NAEP. To reduce the
information loss associated with the cascade system it has been proposed that the level 1, staff
should be used to train the BS for any further training including the consolidation course.
77.       The facilities and the time allocation for the level 3 training were also considered
inadequate. For what would have been a 30-hour course at level 1, training at the block level was
done in a day or even an afternoon. The training was also often done in poor facilities with
constant interruptions.
78.       The modules were very largely designed by the ASSP TA team, and it is doubtful
whether the DAE Training Wing will be able to develop the additional modules which will be
needed as a result of feedback from the field (e.g. farmer information needs assessment). This is
an area where additional short-term international expertise will be needed.
79.       Despite much work being undertaken at CERDI and the ATI there is still much more
than can be done to improve the facilities. This however should only be considered when a plan
is prepared on how the facilities will be used. Its likely however that CERDI will continue to
have a key role in the training of the DAE staff and it is important that some of its facilities are
improved i.e. the class rooms.
80.       The role of the ATIs under the NAEP is not clear, especially as many of them are no
longer being used to train BS, though suggestions have been made for limited in-service training
to be undertaken. Given the emphasis on decentralisation and thana level training of BS, and the
role of CERDI in the training of all senior DAE staff, it is not clear what will be the role of the
ATIs within DAE in the future.
81.       A serious limitation of the work undertaken by the Training Wing is the lack of a
cadre of staff with full time responsibility for training. This is a recognised problem within the
Training Wing, but as yet not been resolved. The training cadre who is eventually identified will
need to have been trained in how to be teachers rather than technical people who are brought in to
administer the wing or with technical knowledge.
82.       Despite these concerns there is no doubt that overall a large number of DAE staff has
benefited substantially from training provided by the project, and are better equipped to
implement the NAEP. Without this extensive training it would not have been possible to develop
the new system and ensure that it was taken on board by as many of the people who done. It has
also been responsible for raising the staff moral from the field level to senior level and many new
innovations are being discussed that have been gleaned from the study tours. However because
this is a new system and not everyone understands it completely, further training is essential to
ensure that the achievements are consolidated and it becomes a fully functional new approach.
Evaluation Mission: Agricultural Services Project 1998.
1 A



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix B: Technology Transfer and Training Components
F. Overall Conclusions
83.        The Technology Transfer and the Training Components have been the core of the
project and in many ways have been the vehicle on which the DAE has been transformned.
Although this is still ongoing and there are some concerns about the sustainability of the
approach, the staff of DAE should be encouraged to continue. This has been the first attempt
within MOA to change the means of management into a decentralised system. The staff of the
DAE are enthusiastic about their new responsibilities and are keen to see the changes initiated
carried through. This will however be more difficult without the financial support of the project
and the technical and moral support of the TA team.
17



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2233-BD)
APPENDIX C
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.        The intemal economic rate of return (IERR) was not estimated at appraisal, nor was
the Net Present Value (NPV) calculated. However, an economic sensitivity analysis was carried
out for a range of presumed benefits, as measured by incremental production of rice and wheat
from a range of "adopter areas". These tests indicated that the EIRR was likely to be satisfactory
over a broad range of feasible outcomes.
2.        At the Implementation Completion stage it appears that the incremental economic
benefits could be higher than anticipated at Appraisal for the following reasons:
-    The coverage of beneficiaries by various project activities has generally
reached, or exceeded, appraisal expectations;
-    There was a one or two year delay in the onset of benefit generation, but this
effect was offset by lower project expenditure than anticipated in the early
years of the project;
-    There were no substantial cost over-runs; and
-    Substantial cost savings (about US$9 million) were realized through the down-
sizing of the agro-business development component which was fully costed in
the SAR economic analysis but for which no benefits were quantified.
3.        A reasonably accurate EIRR could not be calculated for a project such as this, with
its heavy investment focus on training and institutional strengthening and development and few,
if any, specific production expectations. An indicative EIRR has nevertheless been calculated for
the ICR, mainly to test the appraisal expectations in light of the implementation experiences to
date. Economic prices for the main agricultural commodities - rice and wheat - were also re-
estimated to determine if there had been major departures from the appraisal estimates that might
affect the economic results.
4.        Prices. Economic prices for rice and wheat were re-estimated for middle of calendar
year 1998. The results show no significant divergence from the appraisal estimates. The farm-
gate rice price was about 10% above the appraisal estimate and the wheat price some 11% below
the appraisal estimate. These minor price differences would have no significant net effect on the
EIRR.



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix C: Economic Analysis
5.        Re-estimated EIRR. To the extent possible, the actual cost experiences are reflected
in the project cost stream, converted to economic values. Full costs of the agro-business
development component are included, although no benefits are directly attributed to it.
Government costs have been estimated, based on the financing percentages given in DCA. An
accurate accounting of direct GOB expenditures on the project is not yet available. GOB will
continue funding of the project through June 1999 and this is reflected in the cost stream. The
total of the grant financing by ODA in support of the project is known, but it was necessary to
make an estimate of the annual distribution of this funding. A Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)
of 0.95 has been applied to the IDA costs, 0.80 to the GOB costs and a SCF of 0.75 applied to the
ODA-funded items, mainly to account for taxes paid by the TA contractors. Post-project
recurrent incremental costs are estimated at US$400,000, although the truly recurrent incremental
budgetary obligations may be somewhat less given that staff reductions have taken place as a
result of the project.
6.        The project benefit assumptions are as follows:
-    There would be a "full adoption" area of 300,000 ha by eight years after project
start-up. Although the ASSP is a national project, this assumed full adoption
area represents only about 3% of the grains planted area;
-    For a given adoption area, benefits would be phased-in over a seven year
period, with the result that full project benefits are reached in Year 13; and
-    Full development incremental benefits for any given hectare are conservatively
valued at US$75. This is based on a composite grain incremental output of
700 kg/ha valued at Tk7.5/kg and with production costs of Tkl,785. This
results in a net incremental return of US$75/ha at full development. As noted,
this is a conservative estimate, as net incremental returns in excess of US$100
are common under project conditions in Bangladesh.
7.        The basic assumptions of the analysis and the economic results are summarized in
Tables 9 (a) and 9 (b) and the economic price estimations are given in Table 9 (c) of Part II of this
report.
8.        The baseline EIRR is about 26%  and the sensitivity test incorporating 25%
reductions in the adopter area and net benefits per hectare has an EIRR of about 17%. The results
of the EIRR analysis, although indicative, do support the SAR's expectation of reasonable
economic benefits from the project investment. The main thrust of the project has been institution
building and strengthening, and the good results achieved to date indicate that the project's
outputs would be a key factor in promoting sustainable economic growth in the rural areas.
2



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix D: Impact Assessment of Seed Exchange Programme
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2233-BD)
APPENDIX D
IMPACT ASSESSMENT OF SEED EXCHANGE PROGRAMME
Introduction and Summary
I1.       This Appendix provides a review  of farrn-level impacts of the Seed Exchange
Programme, assigned to Martin Maurer, farmn management economist, as part of the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) Missionl of the Agricultural Sector Support Project (ASSP). In accordance
with Terns of Reference dated 28 May 1998, Bangladesh was visited from 8-26 June 1998 to prepare
an impact analysis of the Seed Exchange Programme (SEP) as part of the project's ICR mission. In
regard to ASSP's primary objective to improve agricultural support services to raise Bangladesh's
farmers standard of living, a farm-level impact analysis had been incorporated as one task of the
mission. Terms of Reference specify the task as following:
"Undertaking a survey of farmers to assist the ICR mission in assessing
whether the extension service reforms introduced under the project have
contributed to any agricultural productivity improvements, and determine
whether there are noticeable differences between areas of the country
where the new extension system is operating and other areas. You will also
attempt to assess whether new technology transfer methods are appropriate
and are working; and whether farmers have adopted and benefited from
the uptake of new technologies as a result of the reformed extension
services. You will attempt to make a comparison of the with and without
project situation. "
Mission Members: C.J. Bevan - Mission Leader, R.B. Campbell - Economist, R.L. Gillett - Extension
Specialist and M. Maurer - Farm Management Specialist.
1



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix D: Impact Assessment of Seed Exchange Programme
2.        The original Termns of Reference were adjusted in the country following discussions with
local technical experts and project staff. The revised Terms of Reference focus on an impact
evaluation of the Seed Exchange Programme, which is part of the Seed Component of the project1.
3.        The evaluation is primarily based on a field survey carried out with farmers in Rajshahi
and Noakhali districts and included qualitative, as well as quantitative micro-economic information
on the basis of with/without comparisons.
4.        Principal background information and preparation of field survey activities was
elaborated during initial discussions with senior officials and staff of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA), the Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE) in Dhaka and at the district and thana
levels, and with the Technical Assistance team advising DAE in Dhaka. Discussions also involved
local seed traders and block level supervisors (BS) of DAE who are responsible for on-farm
implementation of SEP.
5.        Preliminary results were reported to the Mission Leader on June 16 for incorporation in
the Aide Memoire, and the resident FAO Representative was briefed on June 25.
6.        Altogether, SEP has proved to be an appropriate tool for effective, farmer-based
improvement of high-quality seed use at the village level, and participating farmers responded very
positively to the programme. The programme is considered to have positive micro-economic impacts
on gross margins per hectare and family income, which are linked to increased access, use and
replacement rates of modem High Yielding Varieties (HYV). In this respect, estimated economic
impacts on Boro rice production are regarded as good and acceptable in the case of Aman and Aus
rice and also in the case of wheat.
7.        Services provided by DAE staff are overall considered as good, although there exists a
lack of advice on specific seed production issues. Hence, long-term success of SEP is strongly linked
to an effective Seed Awareness Campaign and other seed production training and field
demonstrations. Also, increasing numbers of participating farmers requires more DAE staff than
currently available. New farmer-based training concepts need to be established, and a system for
control of seed quality and monitoring of seed end user perceptions needs to be developed.
8.        With respect to the sustainability of SEP, some elements remain critical and need to be
tackled. Exploration of market demands for seeds of particular varieties was neglected during
programme conception according to survey results, and needs to be reviewed in collaboration with
farmers and also private traders.
9.        It is recommended that the SEP be continued as an effective- and low cost intensive
programme with catalytic effects on other development activities which are based on it's positive
effects on farmers' human capacities and the direct improvement of crop productivity. Continuation
For specific reasons, please refer to "Background" in the following section of this report.
2



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix D: Impact Assessment of Seed Exchange Programme
of the programme after termination of ASSP is also advisable as SEP was first implemented in 1996,
and would need at least two to three additional years to become fully operational at the village level.
10.       However some basic changes in the general concept and technical approach are
recommended to ensure sustainable continuation: (a) human resource development needs to be much
more directed to the farmers as target group and less to extension staff; (b) as DAE staff cannot be
expected to the anticipated expansion of increasing numbers of participants, it is suggested to
establish farmer-to-farmer information exchange schemes, supplemented by selected training events
for seed producing farmers; (c) simple economic tools (gross margin analysis) for performance
assessment of varieties provided under average, drought and flood conditions are required for
involved advisors; (d) it is suggested to investigate the influence of low cash liquidity in respect to
the farmers readiness to increase purchase of seed and to establish a simple monitoring system of
seed end users perceptions on seed quality; (e) it is strongly recommended to revise the list of crops
and varieties on the base of a market analysis and farmers appraisal, which may also include varieties
beyond BADC's seed supply.
Background
11.       After approval of ASSP in 1991 and a mid-term review end of 1994, modifications of the
project included an extension reform which incorporated a more participatory extension approach
and the introduction of a farmers seed exchange system, later called Seed Exchange Programme
(SEP).
12.       The importance of better seed provision and the increasing role of the private and
informal sector has been recognised by GOB and is reflected in the changes to the seed sector policy
and rules that allow more private enterprise participation. For example, the seed industry is now
represented in the National Seed Board. Low seed replacement rates and related low productivity in
major crops like rice was tackled by ASSP through a number of activities like the establishment of
client responsive breeder seed units in a number of research institutes. DAE is responsible for the
implementation of improved seed technology advice of field extension staff, a seed awareness
campaign at the village level and the Seed Exchange Programme (SEP).
13.       Among the six ASSP components, the projected costs for the seed component (US$2.6
million) where SEP belongs to amounts to less than 5% of the total cost of US$59.4 million.
However, the activity reflects an important step towards a more participatory approach, where
farmers as ultimate project beneficiaries were meant to be more directly involved in activities and
decision making.
14.       The SEP was selected for farm-level evaluation because the programme seems to have a
good on-farm response but at the time of project closure no complete evaluation had been carried out,
even though the programme was launched two years ago. As one of the few economically
quantifiable activities implemented by DAE it may also have a catalytic effect on a couple of issues
3



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix D: Impact Assessment of Seed Exchange Programme
important for further seed improvement1: (1) increased production of high quality seed on the village
level, thus easy accessibility of quality controlled seed to decrease income losses through poorly farmer
produced seed and (2) opening a channel for the introduction of modem high yielding varieties to increase
productivity of main food and cash crops.
15.        Hence, the evaluation carried out for this report focuses on the success achieved in the
following areas: (a) augmenting the farmers economic situation by increased productivity and income
(b) appropriate, adapted and effective functioning of the programme through participatory
involvement of farmers and (c) sustainability, thus if farmers are likely to accept and adopt the
concept of on-farm seed production and high quality seed exchange in the long term. Bottlenecks of
the Seed Awareness Campaign and other seed-related ASSP activities are discussed whenever
necessary.
Field Work and Methodology
16.        The conception of the field survey and general design of the farmers questionnaire was
prepared before the mission started, and was then altered in Bangladesh according to the specific
topics and survey region selected.
17.        The survey regions selected were Rajshahi district (Rajshahi division) in the North- West
and Lakshmipur district (Noakhali division) in the South-East of the country to cover typical agro-
ecological zones of Bangladesh and areas with and without SEP implemented activities. Within
Rajshahi district, SEP participating farmers were selected on the base of lists available at the thana
levels. Within Lakshmipur district, farmers with similar production systems and without SEP
coverage were selected in order to allow with-without SEP comparison.
18.        The sample farmers were selected randomly on the base of available thana lists. Out of a
total of 30 farmer interviews, 25 were finally used for analysis: 13 SEP participants and 12 non-
participants. Within the group of participants, 6 are 'first-grade participants, producing seed for later
sale or exchange with other farmers, and 5 are 'second-grade' participants, being recipients of seed
produced by "first-grade" participants. In the following text, 'first grade' participants are called seed
producers and 'second- grade' participants are called seed recipients. The time available did not
allow statistically representative sampling.
19.        The questionnaires contains four parts: (1) history of participation in SEP or other DAE
activities in the last five years, including farmers observations and assessment of activities; (2) socio-
economic parameters as base for calculation of gross margins of crops, income contributions from
various sources and major food supply sources; (3) seed selection criteria and preferences of farmers;
and (4) farmers perceptions on the general performance of extension service and the farmers main
goals and objectives.
TA evaluation report by DFID, April 1998.
4



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix D: Impact Assessment of Seed Exchange Programme
20.        During the field survey, the reporting officer was assisted by a local counterpart,
responsible for translation in Bangla language and for general technical assistance. Each interview
took 1.5-2 hours, depending on the number of major crops and the farmers' individual
responsiveness. The formal questionnaire served as base for discussions, supplemented by ad-hoc
questions. Complementary to the farmer survey, district and thana DAE authorities were visited as
well as one seed trader.'
21.        The analysis focused on qualitative results as well as on micro-economic impact
assessment of improved seed exchange. Here, two basic approaches were used in principle for
quantitative: (1) comparison of the success situation of SEP -participating farmers with non-
participating farmers; (2) linear regression analysis of gross margins and income contributions as
result of improved seed replacement rate in SEP regions. Qualitative assessment included, among
others, farmers assumptions on yield increases through SEP seed. It is difficult to isolate the
influence of the SEP from other factors such as how progressive a farmer may be, thus if
participating farmers have been already more successful than others before the programme was
introduced. However, as the land resource base is similar and there is no evidence that SEP
participants have been economically better off before they were selected for the programme, results
of the comparative analysis between the groups can be considered as indicative as to what extent SEP
has effected farmers economy.
Results
Participation and Response to General Concept
22.        SEP seed producers respond very positively to the programme. Reasons mentioned by
the farmers are (a) access to new high yielding varieties, (b) increased frequency of block supervisors
(BS) visits, (c) increased yields of crops where seed is distributed through SEP and (d) cheap access
to complete input packages in the first year (seed and fertilizer provided to participants).
23.        SEP seed recipients also respond positively. Perceived advantages are (a) immediate
access to high quality seed and (b) seed has been locally tested. The quality of SEP received seed has
been generally assessed as very good by the farmers.
24.        Farmers who do not participate in SEP are usually not aware that such programme exists,
have no or very limited access to any extension advice and do not in general participate in any other
DAE programmes, training or field activities. However the majority ranks high quality seed access as
a first priority issue which is critical to success in production of major crops.
25.        The frequency of visits by BS is high and few complaints on the quality of advice
received were recorded. With few exceptions, participating seed producer farmers were visited once
per week by block supervisors. On the other hand, farmers who received SEP seed were hardly
visited and thus no information on their response is available on a regular base. Also, visiting
5



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix D: Impact Assessment of Seed Exchange Programme
increasing numbers of participating farmers will soon be impossible with limited numbers of existing
DAE BS staff, especially as participation will increase steadily if positive farmers response will be
maintained in future1I. Hence, a means for sustaining the scheme and of seed quality monitoring and
of end user farmers perceptions needs to be developed as soon as possible.
26.         There are small differences in land resource endowment and cultivation practises
between participants and non-participants, although land use intensity is higher in the case of non-
participants because of regional differences (Table 1, Attachment). Overall, farmers selected for SEP
did not have considerably larger farms than the average farmer, and therefore economies of scale can
be neglected in respect to per hectare productivity and income situation. Randomly selected
participants produced or received either rice or wheat seed. Although other crops play some role in
the programme, they were not frequent enough to be considered.
27.         The sample farmers who participated in SEP since 1996 estimated their productivity
increases at between 1 10%-130%, without changing their input intensity, and 200-250% with
increasing input intensity according to the requirements of the new HYVs. Estimations with highest
increases have been recorded in the case of Kanchun variety of wheat, and with rice varieties BR 30
and BR 32.
28.         In general, farmers still have very limited knowledge on available HYV. This is also the
case for seed producers, who usually do not know more than the name of their own SEP variety.
Access to or even knowledge about foreign, for example Indian varieties, has not been recorded. In a
few cases farmers are well aware of some vegetable or other cash crop HYV but not as a result of
SEp2. Thus, preparation of participating farmers or training of BS staff seems to be insufficient in
this respect. Therefore, integration or linkage of SEP to other seed provision improvement activities
needs to be strengthened. It could be advisable to train interested farmners directly in cooperation with
private seed trading companies to avoid loss of information for end users3.
29.         There are two basic types of participating farmers. One group cultivates a specific crop
as a major on-farm crop and combines general production with some quality seed production via SEP
participation and a second group simply tests the new variety as a new opportunity on a small plot.
As a result, around half of the participants grow only the received SEP variety, while the rest grow
only a very small percentage of the SEP variety in comparison with the whole area cultivated to
wheat or with rice.
In addition, in most districts not all thanas are yet covered by SEP.
2This is specifically the case for sugar cane, potatoes and some (acreage-wise) minor vegetables like chillies.
Because of two reasons: (1) the SEP concept involves a snowball-like increase of participating farmners- every
participating breeder returns double the amount of received seed which is then re-distributed amnong new
participants. Hence, in the long run, DAE personnel will not be able to handle all information delivery to a
possibly rapidly growing number of farmners; (2) such specific information access can only be open to subject-
matter specialists or subject-matter officers (SMS, SMO) who, in return, will not be able to handle necessary field
visits.
6



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix D: Impact Assessment of Seed Exchange Programme
30.       Most farmers understand SEP participation in the first instance as an additional and
cheap opportunity to produce high quality seed for their own purposes, with the advantage of being
provided with knowledge in handling such seed production by extension staff. The option to sell will
be realised if the outcome and other farmers response is very positive. In this respect, the results of
SEP in regard to establishing village-based quality seed for regular supply to farmers depends largely
on the selection of successful marketable varieties for highly demanded crops. However, according to
the authors knowledge neither a comprehensive seed market analysis nor an on-farm survey on seed
demand by farmers has been used as basis for selecting varieties and crops for SEP. For example,
many of the farmers interviewed stated that they would have preferred to receive seed of Boro rice
rather than the Aus or Amman seed they actually received. This is attributed to the generally higher
acceptance of local varieties for home consumption in the case of Aus and Amman rice. On the other
hand. the SEP for crops like jute largely failed according to DAE officials, because consume such
seeds in the event of failure to sell them.
31.       Participation in field demonstration programmes and training events by participating
seed producers can be regarded as excellent in comparison to other farmers, even if the range and
quality of obtained information seems to be mixed. Altogether, the specific knowledge level in seed
handling and propagation techniques seems to be very limited, while general aspects of (seed) storage
and cultivation of HYV has improved in comparison to other farmers. However, most improved
agricultural knowledge is not linked to SEP, but has been acquired earlier. Table 1 shows a summary
of events in which seed producers participated in the last five years. Seed recipients hardly
participated in any events, and non-participating farmers did not take part in any training or field
demonstration or agricultural extension activity in the last five years.
32.       Selection of rice, wheat, lentils and jute as crops for the seed exchange has been the
appropriate choice for initiating the programme on the base of available types of crops and varieties
available through BADC, but this choice needs to be adjusted. Although a large part of the farmers
are primarily interested in subsistence production with Boro (in Rajshahi) or Aman (in Lakshmipur)
rice as main crop, around 50% of the farmers are also interested in cash crop production alone or
together with food production. Here, Boro rice, wheat, groundnut, beetlenut, coconut, sugarcane,
dates and some vegetables are increasingly important. It is therefore necessary to review the situation
and also discuss with farmers and traders, which crop (seeds) are rapidly increasing in demand and if
private or public provision needs to be supplemented by farmer seed exchange programmes for some
of these crops. Aus rice (no market demand) and jute (high market risk) e.g. are not very suitable for
SEP.
33.       Main sources for seed access are other farmers and govemment, although a high
percentage of seeds is still replaced by own seed preserved from last years harvest. No distinction can
yet be made between SEP participating farmers and others. Public seed sources are mainly used for
the following crops: rice, wheat, sugar, lentils. Farmers seed exchange so far covers mainly rice,
potatoes, chillies and some other vegetables. The major crop for own seed use without external
replacement is Aman rice. Especially for groundnut and to some fewer extent for soybean, too, seed
7



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix D: Impact Assessment of Seed Exchange Programme
purchase from private traders plays a major role. Success of SEP in future would seem to depend on
the use of varieties in high demand and a more flexible response to local demands for specific crops
and varieties supplied by the private market and public sector. So far only BADC produced seed has
been used.
34.       Besides mineral fertilizer, seed was mentioned as an important input in crop production
by a considerable proportion of farmers. Although seed replacement is generally low at a level of
20%, farmers involved in SEP are well aware of the benefits of higher replacement rates. Increasing
awareness of the need to buy high quality seed and replace it more frequently is a definite and
significant impact of SEP. Differences with non-participating farmers are considerable. Nevertheless,
even participants are only willing to buy new seed if they are certain that the expected return is
higher than the costs. This is not the case in areas mainly affected by natural hazards or varying
rainfall conditions, such as it has been recently the case in Lakshmipur district. Risk minimization,
e.g. by irrigation development or access to drought or flood resistant crop varieties will be a main
precondition for realization of improved awareness on seed replacement and finally higher
productivity.
35.       Farmers mentioned high yield and market prices in the case of Boro rice and wheat, and
both taste and yield in the case of Amman rice as major criteria of popular or successful varieties. In
general, non participants name locally known varieties as first choice, while participating farmers
mention varieties of the programme or other varieties released by BADC. On average, whilst both
participating and non-participating farmers have access to a large number of local varieties (Table 2),
participating farmers use HYV to a larger extent.
Micro-Economic Impacts
36.       The main impacts of SEP recorded so far are (1) increasing awareness on the need for
higher seed replacement (2) increased replacement rates for some crops, (3) improved knowledge on
available HYV BADC varieties, (4) know-how on management of seed production and (5) increased
availability of modern varieties at locations where SEP has been introduced.
37.       Interlinkages between increased replacement rates and gross margins of major crops
have been quantified through regression analysis and are discussed in the following paragraphs.
Yields of harvested SEP varieties are compared with old varieties. The impact of all other, more
indirect and qualitative factors is explored through comparative income and gross margin analyses
between groups of seed producers, seed recipients and non-participants.
38.       Considerably higher seed replacement rates of participants and significant positive
correlation between gross margins of rice and wheat crops and related seed replacement rates have
been found as a result of linear regression analysis. On the base of regression results, the impact of
increased seed exchange rates is also discussed within the following paragraphs. Figures on resulting
gross margins for main crops are also attached in the Attachment to this Appendix.
8



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix D: Impact Assessment of Seed Exchange Programme
39.       Estimated economic impacts on Boro rice production are remarkably high, although it
must be stressed that the sample size was too small to allow for general extrapolation of the findings.
Gross margins per ha are extremely high in the case of seed producers and seed recipients (Table 3,
Attachment). Specific gross margins per ha of introduced SEP varieties are as much as four times
higher than gross margins per ha of older local varieties. It must be noted that SEP producers and
recipients also used much higher rates of fertilizer and other inputs, so only a portion of the benefits
can be attributed to seed per se. Current average seed replacement rates (SRR) for Boro rice is 8%
rising to 12% after implementation of SEP. If we assume a similar increase in SRR for the coming
years, gains in income and gross margin per ha in the range between 1% (SRR = 25%) and 5% (SRR
= 100%) are projected in comparison to the current level.
40.       Estimated economic impacts on Aman rice production are also very high. Gross
margins/ha are about six times higher in the case of seed producers and seed recipients, compared to
other farmers. Current SRR for Aman rice varies between 10-28%, without statistically significant
differences between participants and non-participants. Projecting an increase in SRR from currently
25% to 50%, average farm income would increase by roughly 9%. Calculated gross margins per ha of
introduced SEP varieties are 3.5 times higher than gross margins per ha of used local varieties,
however in combination with much higher mineral fertilizer use.
41.       Estimated economic impacts on wheat production are also considerable. Gross margins
per ha of non-participants are currently negativel, while seed producers and seed recipients achieve
an average gross margin per ha of around TklO,000. Current SRR for wheat is already 50%, without
statistically significant differences between SEP participants and non-participants. If it is assumed
that there still is as potential for increasing SRR in the coming years, the impact on gross margins and
income will be noticeable. If SRR would increase from currently 50% to 75%2, the farm income
would grow by more than 1%.
42.       Estimated economic impacts on Aus rice  production are also considerable. Gross
margins per hectare of Aus crop are much higher for SEP participants than for non-participants (see
Table 3). Current SRR for Aus rice varies between 11-20%, however with no statistically significant
differences between participants and non-participants. Thus a large potential for increases in
productivity and income exist. Gross margins per ha of introduced SEP varieties are more than
double the gross margins per ha of local varieties.
43.       Results on the economic impact for other crops are mixed and more difficult to estimate
as surveyed farmers do not grow other crops using SEP seed. In the case of sugarcane and pulses,
gross margins per ha are higher in the case of non- participants, as some farmers are highly intensive,
specialised producers of such crops. In the case of vegetables, specialised farmers with highest gross
margins occur in the group of seed recipients, while for all other crops SEP seed producers show
Calculated on the basis that all labour is costed.
2 Which is however double as much as it has increased since SEP implementation.
9



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix D: Impact Assessment of Seed Exchange Programme
higher gross margins per ha. The average SRR for other crops ranges from 23-50%, so that some
potential for SRR increase is given. Slight productivity and income increases can be expected as a
result of generally higher awareness on the importance of SRR as for most of these crops seed is not
exchanged directly through SEP, depending on the coverage of villages with such farmers by SEP.
44.         Altogether, accumulated total gross margin per hectare of SEP  participants are
significantly higher than those of non-participants mainly due to lower gross margins of rice and
wheat crops of the latter (Figure 1).
45.         Analysis of the results of SEP reflect not only the use of seed but also the general
economic and liquidity situation of farmers. In (with-without) comparison between seed producers,
seed recipients and non-participants, income sources, farm and family incomes, market orientation
and seed cost shares have been reviewed.
46.         Analysis of the survey results indicates (Figure 2) that the percentage of total family
income derived from farming is similar in both all three situations. However, the absolute amount of
income is greatest in the case of seed producers reflecting their generally overall better economic
situation which can be partly attributed to the production of more profitable crops (Figure 3). This
10



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix D: Impact Assessment of Seed Exchange Programme
suggests that the SEP has to-date concentrated on better farmers and that in future as more and more
poorer farmers are involved that the benefits may not be so substantial.
hgure 2* Incowe Sources (1k)
60000
50000.
40000
300ao   1<     l l                         So~~~~~~~~~~Faily Lneome 
..Fam Income
noff-Farm IncomDe
20000                  ,.|___-.____________
20000
low 10Z._1                                              .... ....:
0
SeedProducer     SeedRecipient    Without SEP
47.         SEP focuses to a large extent on major crops like rice and wheat. While seed producers
and recipients achieve nearly half of their farm income through rice and wheat production
(Tk20,000/year), non-participants hardly generated any income from these crops (Tk642), with many
farmers achieving negative incomes in this group for the last season. Although differences in agro-
ecological or weather conditions may have played some role, the significantly high differences give
reason to conclude that SEP has a positive impact on the total incomes in general as stated above,
mainly through improving contributions from major rice and wheat crops (Figure 3).
11



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix D: Impact Assessment of Seed Exchange Programme
48.        Off-farm  income has a relatively small share on the annual total family income. It
reaches roughly Tk10,000 in the case of seed producers, Tkl3,000 in the case of seed recipients and
around Tk2,300 in the case of non-participants.
49.        Cash returns from on-farmn market sales also amount to a small share of roughly 25% in
the case of non-participants (Tk7,700), while in the case of seed recipients or participants, the market
share is higher than 50% and reaches Tk38,000 and Tk57,000 respectively. Hence, level of market
orientation is considerably higher for farmers involved in SEP activities with 58% for participants,
48% for seed recipients and only 37% for non-participants.
Conclusions and Recommendations
50.        SEP has proved to be an appropriate means for effective, farmer-based improvement of
high-quality seed use at the village level, and also fits in with other ASSP activities as for example
Seed Awareness Campaign and Village-Level Seed Production Research Programme.
51.        Farmers who participated in SEP were very positive about the scheme: SEP seed
producers liked it because of improved and cheap access to new and high yielding varieties,
increased visit frequency of extension staff, perceived yield increases in crops where seed is
12



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix D: Impact Assessment of Seed Exchange Programme
distributed through SEP, whilst SEP seed recipients liked it because of immediate access to higher
quality seed which has been locally tested. The quality of SEP produced seed is perceived as very
good. Farmers participate as seed producers either to get quality seed for their own use or to test a
new variety on a limited scale as a new income opportunity. The option to sell seed will be realised
only if actual yields, market prices and market demand are positive. The success of SEP therefore
largely depends on distribution of highly marketable varieties, which is not yet always the case.
52.       Farmers who do not participate in SEP are usually not aware that such a programme
exists, have no or very limited access to any extension advice and in general do not participate in any
other DAE programmes, training or field activities. However the majority of these farmers rank high
quality seed as a high priority issue which is critical to success in production of major crops.
53.       The main impacts of SEP recorded so far are (1) increasing awareness on the need for
higher seed replacement rates, (2) increased replacement rates for some crops, (3) improved
knowledge on available HYV BADC varieties, (4) know-how on management of breeder seed
production and (5) higher availability of modem varieties at locations were SEP has been
introduced..
54.       Overall farmers perceive the SEP concept as positive. The frequency of visits by BS is
high and there are few complaints on the quality of received advice by means of direct
communication with DAE extension workers. Although frequency of participation in general field
demonstrations and training events of participating seed producers is high, most events are not linked
to the programme itself. Information received through SEP related events often does not satisfy
specific information demands in seed breeding.
55.       There is however a lack of awareness on seed replacement and the seed exchange
concept among SEP seed recipients, so that likely positive impacts do not reach seed recipients to the
same extent as seed producers. Seed market transparency for HYV is still limited to some BADC
varieties for most participating farmers. In this context, the general concept of distributing mainly
governmental varieties has a negative impact on the farmers own selection capabilities. Farmers are
willing to raise seed replacement if expected returns are secure and higher than costs. This is not the
case for the majority of SEP jute producers. Risk minimization in respect to weather conditions,
market prices and natural hazards plays also a major role in decision making on seed replacement.
Farmers not participating in SEP usually name locally known varieties as best choice, while
participating farmers mention varieties released through BADC.
56.       Differences in farm sizes between participating and non-participating farmers were small
so that effects of scale on productivity and income analysis can be neglected. Farmers participating as
seed producers since 1996 estimated their own productivity increases in the range between 110%-
130% without changing their input intensity, and 200 - 250% with adjusted input intensity.
13



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix D: Impact Assessment of Seed Exchange Programme
57.       Micro-economic impacts are linked to increased access, use and replacement rates of
modem HYV. As the proportion of income derived from crop production is generally very high,
recorded crop productivity increases directly effect income. The farm and family income is
considerably higher in the case of seed recipients and even more in the case of seed producers.
Allowing for only rough estimations of income effects and possible side effects through biased
selection of seed producers, which may have effected analysis results, micro-economic impacts of
SEP can be assessed as positive, specifically in the case of main rice and wheat crops. This is also
confirmed by estimated total gross margins per hectare of cultivated crop land which are significantly
higher for seed producers and seed recipients.
58.       Estimated impacts on Boro rice production are remarkably high, as gross margins per ha
are considerably higher for the average of seed producers and specifically for the introduced HYV
varieties. Seed replacement rate of seed producers increased in comparison to the average farmer, so
that further farm income improvements between 1% - 5% can be expected if this trend continues.
Estimated impacts on Aman rice production are also very high. Gross margins per ha for Aman
production and the new varieties, are considerably higher than for the average of all farmers. With a
doubling of seed replacement rates to a level of 50%, farm income can be expected to increase by
9%. Impacts on Aus rice production are also significant. Gross margins per ha of Aus crop and
specifically for the introduced varieties increased strongly for seed producers and seed recipients. A
large potential for improved productivity by increasing seed replacement can be expected, as current
seed replacement rates are low. However income effects will be much lower, as the income share of
Aus rice production is generally low. Estimated impacts on wheat production are considerable. Gross
margins per ha of seed producers were noticeably higher than for average farmers. Effects of
increasing seed replacement rates are estimated to be noticeable but lower than for rice, as seed
replacement rates are already higher and there is less potential for improvement in future. Indirect
impacts for other crops not distributed by SEP are mixed and difficult to estimate. In the case of
sugarcane and pulses, gross margins per ha are higher in the case of non-participants, while in the
case of vegetables and other crops, SEP participants produce higher gross margins per ha.
59.       The amount of market orientation and cash returns derived from  crop sales are
significantly higher in the case of participants. Since farmer to farmer sales of SEP introduced HIYV
did not yet really start, this situation is related to other circumstances than SEP influence.
Considering the generally low share of off-farm cash income, the small base of cash income could be
a major obstacle for further increases of HYV seed use and replacement rates, even though
proportionally input costs of seed are relatively low.
60.       With respect to the sustainability of SEP, some elements remain critical and need to be
tackled. Long-term success of SEP is strongly linked to the success of the Seed Awareness Campaign
and other training and field demonstrations, where progress achieved with farmers has been found to
be mixed. Although most farmers participated in field days or training programmes, there has been
little emphasis on farmers seed production training. A review of market demand for seeds was not
undertaken during programme conception according to survey results and needs to be reviewed in
14



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix D: Impact Assessment of Seed Exchange Programme
collaboration with farmers and also private traders. An increase in the number of participating
farmers will require more DAE staff than currently available. New training concepts need to be
established, and a system for control of seed quality and monitoring of end user farmers perceptions
needs to be developed as soon as possible.
Recommendations
61.       It is recommended that the SEP be continued as an effective and low cost intensive
programme with catalytic effects on other development activities. Continuation of the programme
after termination of ASSP is also advisable as SEP was first implemented in 1996 and would need at
least two to three additional years to be fully operational at the village level. However some basic
changes in the general concept and technical approach are required to ensure sustainable
continuation.
62.       Human resource development needs to be much more focused towards the farmers as
target groups. Specific seed producing techniques cannot be provided solely by BS staff, who are
usually generalists. The involvement of trained superior DAE extension officers (SMO, SMS and
higher) to date is essential.
63.       The present supervising capacities of DAE staff have to be reviewed and reorganised. As
SEP is supposed to reach increasing numbers of farmers both as seed producers and end users, field
extension staff cannot be held responsible for visiting increasing numbers of seed producing farmers
once a week. In addition, BS staff numbers are expected to even decrease slightly, as the effect of the
DAE staff reduction policy.
64.       A farmer-to-farmer information exchange scheme, supplemented by selected training
events for seed producing farmers could be considered as useful in this context. It could be advisable
to train interested farmers directly in cooperation with BADC and private seed trading companies to
avoid loss of information for end users. After successful implementation, farm-level seed producers
could be involved in cost sharing. A working plan with time schedule and involved human resources
is required for that purpose.
65.        Simple economic assessment tools (gross margin analysis) in regard to the expected
benefits from provided seed need to be supplied for advisors and farm-level seed producers. It should
include rough assessments of variety performance under average, drought and flood conditions. Such
economic assessment could be based on similar analysis to those in this study, and could also help to
analyse potential success of possible crops and varieties to be included or excluded.
66.       Further analysis of farmer decision making is needed to evaluate the influence on
farmers with low cash liquidity in respect to the intended increase of seed purchases and competition
with other inputs like fertiliser.
15



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix D: Impact Assessment of Seed Exchange Programme
67.        For the provision of performance data of SEP produced seed, a simple monitoring system
of end users needs to be established. One to two samples per each crop of randomly selected farmers
in each district would be satisfactory and could be handled by DAE staff.
68.        Based on a review of market opportunities of crops, a revised list of crops and varieties
to be included in the programme needs to be produced. This to involve farmer participation as well as
discussions with private seed traders. Specifically, an assessment on the relative advantage of seed
production by private companies and BADC in comparison with competing farm-level multiplication
is required. Success of SEP in future may depend primarily on the uptake of highly demanded
varieties, and more flexible response to local demands for specific crops and new varieties. In this
regard there would seem to be no good reason to include jute in the SEP.
16



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix D: Impact Assessment of Seed Exchange Programme
Table 1. Contents of Courses and Field Demonstrations Visited by Seed Producers in the Last Five Years
Percentage of                             Percentage of Seed
Topics           Field Demonstrations    Seed Producers          Training         Producers Participating
Participating in                             in any Event
any Event
Crops                 Aman Riec, Boro Rice,           90%        Rice HYV, potato, sugar,          30%
Soybean                                    sunflower, lentil, mustard
Varieties             Amman BR 32, BR 30, BR          90%
28, Kanchun,
Seed-related          Variety characteristics, line   50%        Storage, selection               30%
demonstrations        sowing, poly-bag storage,                  according to germination
sowing rate, seed quality
assessment
Fertilizer-related    Application of green            50%        Urea, green manure and            30%
demonstrations        manure, specific fertilizer                compost application;
dosages                                    mineral fertilizer dosage
and selection
Others                Weeding, irrigation             30%                                IPM; application and
management, new crop                                               dosage of chemicals;
opportunities (soybean)                                            herbicide application
17



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix D: Impact Assessment of Seed Exchange Programme
Table 2. Major Rice and Wheat Varieties Accessible by Farmers
SEP Participants                              Non- Participants
Rice (Boro,     Bhadoi, Bhoira, China, Hida, Parijat, Purobi,  Boilam,Hida, Kajolshail, Kuriamnuni, Madhamaloti,
Aus Aman)       Shaita, Shama 10, Voira, BRI0, BRI 1, BR24,    Raja, Rajashail, BR4, BRI 1, BR22, BR23, IRRI8
BR28, BR 30, BR 32,
Wheat           Kanchan, Sonalika                              Sada
Table 3. Projected Income Improvements by Increasing Seed Replacement Rates on the Base of Linear
Regression Results
Seed Replacement Rate    Proportional Income Increase
Rice (Aman)                         25%                           0.0
50%                          8.6
75%                          17.1
100%                         25.7
Rice (Boro)                          8%                           0.0
25%                          1.2
50%                          3.1
75%                          4.9
100%                          6.7
Wheat                               25%                           1.2
50%                          3.1
75%                          4.9
100%                          6.7
Current situation in italic.
18



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2233-BD)
APPENDIX D
Attachment
Summary Tables and Figures on Micro-Economic Impacts
Table 1. Average Size of Farm Land and Cultivation Area of SEP Participating and Non-Participating
Farmers
Size of cultivated area   SEP Seed       SEP Seed      Without SEP
Producer      Recipient
Land ha                         2.3            2.1             2.3
Total Cultivated Area (ha)      2.8            2.5             3.6
Table 2. Income and Sources of Income of Farmers With and Without SEP Participation
Income Parameters               SEP Seed Producer   SEP Seed Recipient    Without SEP
Off-Farm cash income (%)                               4                   16                 26
Livestock cash income (%/6)                           19                    4                 12
Subsistence in crop production (%)                    42                   52                 63
Returns from crop production (Tk)                  27155                27080              10311
Market sales (Tk)                                  56961                38715               7770
Total returns (Tk)                                 91357                60174              22500
Income from crop production                        41794                35548               7891
Income from livestock production                    6700                -1927              -3299*
Farm Income                                        48494                33621               4592
Off-Farm Income                                    10076                13393               2169
Family Income                                      58570                47014               6761
% Crop from Farm Inc                                  86                  100                 99
% Crop from Family-Inc                                76                   79                 91
* Mainly draught animals without direct economic contributions.
19



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix D: Impact Assessment of Seed Exchange Programme
Attachment: Summary Tables and Figures on Micro-Economic Impacts
Table 3. Gross Margins per ha of Farmers With and Without SEP Participation
Gross Margin /ha   SEP Seed         SEP Seed           Without SEP       New Variety   Old Variety
Producer        Recipient
Rice (Aman)          19,846           20,718               3,094             19,637        5,346
Rice (Boro)          18,516           24,945              -13,330           64,584         14,356
Rice (Aus)           26,464            6,411                 848             14,638         6,469
Wheat                10,429            9,597                -256               -
Sugarcane            25,940           23,209               70,664
Vegetables           18,701           60,712               6,395
Pulses                2,351             -                  7,967
Other Crops          54,040            3,257                 -
Table 4. Input Costs and Share of Seed Costs of Farmers With and Without SEP Participation
Input Costs (Tk)              SEP Seed Producer   SEP Seed Recipient    Without SEP
Fertilizer                           11054                 8188               3518
Pesticides                           2778                  2302                 813
Hired Labour                         11678                 6372               7930
Water                                6939                  1925                  43
Harvest and Transport                6079                  5240                1194
Seed                                   429                 243                 126
Seed Costs (%)                        1.0%                 0.9%                0.7%
Total Crop Inputs                   38528                 24027               13497
Total Livestock Inputs               4336                  2527               4410
Total Input Costs                   43292                 26753              18064
20



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix D: Impact Assessment of Seed Exchange Programme
Attachment: Summary Tables and Figures on Micro-Economic Impacts
Figure Al: Projected Gross Margins with Increas_ng
Seed Replacement Rates in Boro Rice
25000
Situation.:-                    -      :-
20000
15000
5000
8%         25%         50%         75%          00%
Figure A2: Projected Gross Margins with Increasing
Seed Replacement Rates in Aman Rice
2000
20000
15000
Situation     ._                                    -
500 
25%           50%            75%           100%
Figure A3: Projected Gross Margins with Increasing
Seed Replacement Rates in Wheat
25000
20000                 __________ _.,_                   _
15000Siuto
10000
0
25%           50%            75%           100%
21



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2233-BD)
APPENDIX E
SUMMARY EVALUATION REPORT BY DFID
Introduction
1.        The Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) is a Tk 2,549 million project
implemented by the Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE) of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) and co-funded by the Government of Bangladesh (GOB), the World Bank (WB) and the
Department for International Development (DFID) of the United Kingdom. The project supports
six major components, including technology transfer, training, seed development, homestead
production, agri-business development and technical assistance (TA). The main objective is to
expand access by all categories of farm households to cost-effective, needs-based extension,
leading ultimately to increased national agricultural production on a sustainable basis.
2.        ASSP started in 1992 with an initial emphasis upon technical development. The
Department of Agricultural Extension's training institutes were upgraded and were then used to
provide supplementary training to the field force of Block Supervisors (BS). Following the Mid-
Term Review in 1994, the emphasis of the project shifted from technical enhancement to
institutional development. Since then, there has been accelerating activity for development of
management, training and other institutional aspects of the DAE. With considerable support from
ASSP, the government drew up and adopted a New Agricultural Extension Policy (NAEP) in
1996 in which the role of agricultural extension is defined in the context of national policy. The
NAEP incorporates such components as: improved targeting and efficiency; decentralisation;
stronger links with research; training; greater responsiveness to the needs of farmers; integration
and co-ordination of different extension services, including those outside the state sector and
attention to environmental considerations.
3.        The current evaluation of ASSP is supported by DFID and covers all features of the
project since its inception. It aims to identify the strengths and weaknesses of the project
activities and to provide information which will assist in the preparation and appraisal of future
support to DAE by DFID and WB. The evaluation is undertaken to meet the requirements of WB
and DFID; the GOB will undertake its own evaluation at the end of GOB funding in 1999. The
Evaluation Team approach included reviews of documentation from ASSP, DAE, DFID and WB
and interviews with representatives of these agencies. Team members visited a total of 11
districts and 15 thanas for discussions with DAE field staff, representatives of partner
organisations, and farmers. In the final phase, the Team held a series of discussions with DAE,
donor and ASSP representatives to exchange views on findings and recommendations. This
summary presents the findings by each discipline and activity area, although the evaluation cut



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix E: Summary Evaluation Report by DFID
across these boundaries. The main report and annexes provide the details and are set out in the
same format.
Farmer Level Impacts
4.        In conjunction with NAEP, a revised extension approach (REA) has been developed
to increase the direct contact between extension staff and farmers and to develop partnerships
with NGOs that are able to deliver agricultural advice. BS are expected to work with farmers in
groups, instead of individually, and have been trained to ascertain the needs of all types of
farmers (categorised by gender and farm size) as a precursor to providing technical advice. The
collaboration with NGOs, with their greater experience of group-work, gender awareness and
homestead activities, has strengthened contact with the poorer farmers and the ability of the
service to assist the poorer rural families. A number of new extension methods have been taken
up and the range of messages has increased. In line with the REA, a revised extension manual
was published in 1995 containing many extension methods new to the service, and a further
edition will be published in 1998.
5.        There has been substantial improvement in direct contact between agents and farmers
in field based extension events (2.8% baseline, currently 7%, log frame target 15%). Direct
contact between DAE and women clients has dramatically increased during the life of the ASSP,
largely as a result of homestead gardening activities. This is in addition to indirect contacts with
women through partnership programmes. However, whereas events are targeted either to
marginal/small or medium/large farmers, attendance reflects the general distribution of farm
sizes. This suggests that targeting has not been considered when publicising events.
Technology Transfer
6.         The key issues in the transfer of technologies to target farmers are decentralisation of
DAE planning, the provision of services to all categories of farmers and linkages to other
extension organisations.
7.         As a result of decentralisation, extension programme planning has moved from DAE
HQ to the thana and district levels. These offices can now specify their own annual programmes.
The aim is for planning to be driven by farmers' needs which are to be identified in farmer
information needs assessment (FINA) exercises. This process has started but is flawed and FINA
output still tends to reflect DAE interests and capabilities. It has not been widely adopted outside
ASSP funded activities, which mitigates against its sustainability. DAE are aware of some of
these problems and are trying to tackle them.
8.        A major feature of the REA is to address the needs of all categories of farmer. FINA
and extension events are targeted to particular categories and the range of messages has
increased. The project's target categories are based on administrative definitions rather than
useful operational criteria, and the messages do not sufficiently reflect the needs of the target
groups. The approach also assumes that extension is through group activities. Training has been



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services PToject
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix E: Summary Evaluation Report by DFID
given to BS, but there has been insufficient practical support to enable them to work effectively
with groups. The full benefits of FINA have therefore not yet been realised.
9.        Linkages to other agencies have developed, particularly through the system of
committees spearheaded by the Extension Policy Implementation Coordinating Committee
(EPICC). These now exist in each sub-region (ATC), district (DEPC) and thana (TAECC), with
representation from a broad range of relevant public and private organisations. However many
designated members do not attend, or send junior stand-ins, so links remain weak. As EPICC
matures it should be able to examine and develop solutions to this.
Institutional Development
10.       The achievements to date are extensive. The DAE Mission Statement has been
issued; a proposal to restructure the department including changes in staffing and roles is being
submitted to MOA, and information systems for management, planning, monitoring and
evaluation are approaching full implementation.  These efforts are in addition to the
implementation of the REA and the completion of a major related training programme. At the
national level EPICC has been created and has formed operational sub-committees.
11.       The training component of the ASSP has made a considerable impact on DAE skills
overall and the ability of the Field Services Wing to implement and manage the REA. Staff
training has been the main strategy used to improve efficiency of DAE services and to bring
about organisational change. As a result of a clear formulation of the REA, the majority of the
training has been related to the implementation of the NAEP. Nine training modules supported
the policy of decentralised decision-making at the base of the system, bottom-up problem solving,
and improved message delivery and targeting.
12.       NAEP creates an expectation that reforms will take place and that political
commitment has been integral to the process. Its implementation, and the Mission Statement,
necessitate an upgrading of the department's capacity to manage itself. It challenges the set
norms with its emphasis on bottom up planning; decentralisation of budgets and decision making;
collaboration with other extension providers; achievement of efficiency and effectiveness and
increased accountability to clients. The final arbiters of structural change, staffing and budgets
are outside DAE and the Ministry; the response and support of the key central agencies have yet
to be tested.
13.       Several components require special attention from the Management Committee,
including: the implementation of the restructuring plan, delegation of authority, empowerment of
staff, redefinition of the role of Head Office and introduction of performance management using
the information systems for decision making. The Committee has not yet reached a sense of
ownership, partly due to the absence of a single plan and probably also to insufficient knowledge
of the change process. A "settling in" period would be useful to allow managers to become
accustomed with their new roles and responsibilities and to start to use management information
in a proactive and strategic way.



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix E: Summary Evaluation Report by DFID
14.       There has been intensive activity to implement a complete revision of management
information systems (MIS) within the department.  The main systems, covering finance,
personnel, training, extension planning and activity monitoring, should be completed by the end
of the project. A personnel database has yet to progress beyond design stage pending agreement
from GOB on required formats for entries and electronic data transfer. The systems under
development are driven largely by the TA's anticipation of the needs of managers once they have
adapted to the NAEP; managers have yet to show ownership and commitment to them. Technical
audit and medium term evaluation procedures have been introduced but have not been taken up;
without them there is no feedback to ensure that the quality of extension service improves. It
takes time for managers to learn to interpret information, then to insist on the output they need
from the systems, so it may be some time before the use of management information is fully
understood.
15.       The TA Team  is well accepted and respected by the senior managers of the
department. The technical content of their work and their written output is of high quality.
Training
16.       The central objective was to bring all DAE staff, from the managers at headquarters
to the BS, on board as quickly as possible. The cascade approach was used as an efficient way to
deliver this training. FINA was one of the least understood parts of the core training and group
approaches have been difficult to implement in many districts. This suggests that cascade
training is not suitable for teaching interactive skills and should not be used further for this
purpose.
17.       Two achievements, the development of an annual master training plan and a plan for
the future of the ATIs, demonstrate increased understanding of the role of training management
and required skills. However training management is a special skill area not generally available
within DAE, and the Training Wing needs to recognise the importance of improving its training
management skills and to analyse its present capacity and requirements.
Strengthening the Seed Provisioning System
18.       DAE is not the sole client of the Seed Component of ASSP. Project support seeks to
strengthen both the "formal" portion of the seed provisioning system, notably the flow of quality
seeds from breeding programmes to farmers, and the informal, local systems, by which farmers
produce, select, exchange and use seed in rural areas. There has been a very positive response to
work at both these levels, indicating that a real need is being satisfied. The DAE seed exchange
scheme is particularly innovative, but needs a technical audit procedure from the DAE HQ or
regional offices to ensure that quality is maintained.
19.       Breeder Seed Units (BSU) have been established and the quality of breeders seed has
been improved to an acceptable level. However, the ARIs have not fulfilled their obligations to
make the Seed Divisions and BSUs operational.  Support has been provided to a Seed
A



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix E: Summary Evaluation Report by DFID
Technology Research programme, and the role of DAE in the introduction of new varieties would
be improved through better linkages with ARI Regional On Farm Testing and BADC.
20.       A contribution has been made to seed policy formulation and DAE staff have
received Seed Technology training.
NGO/DAE Partnerships
21.       DAE/NGO relationships, are improving. There is now general understanding among
DAE field staff that cooperation with NGOs is formally encouraged. Selected representatives of
NGOs are invited to TAECCs, DEPCCs and ATCs. NGOs are also represented on EPICC.
22.       ASSP has sought to foster the involvement of NGOs in agriculture. Initially the
focus was upon awarding contracts to NGOs to carry out homestead garden activities with farm
families as it was felt that NGOs would be more effective in reaching women, the poor and
landless farmers. Awards went to a relatively small part of the spectrum of NGOs, notably those
with pre-existing agricultural programmes and with sufficient skills to work with/through a
programme which involves a GOB agency. The activities appear to be generally well managed
and have resulted in benefits for resource poor women farmers although it is possible that the
NGOs would have carried out the activities in any case, even without ASSP funding.
23.       To a large extent the ASSP TAT have designed and run the contract programme from
its onset with general guidance provided by an NGO/DAE Liaison Working Group. District and
thana level DAE staff were not consulted in the screening of proposals nor even in the field
verification trips by Working Group members. This appears to run counter to efforts to foster
partnership and the basic tenets of decentralised planning.
24.       The aim is for strongly decentralised decision making in the development of local
partnerships. Both partners will wish to monitor their performance and DAE HQ will need to
keep informed about the nature, strengths and weaknesses of partnerships. The precise location
of the monitoring function requires further consideration, and could involve some innovative joint
approaches that could further strengthen the partnership process.
Gender and Social Development
25.       The Homestead Production Programme has been implemented. This is considered a
success and is incorporated fully into DAE activities. DAE has recognised the need to address
messages according to the division of labour at the household level. A consequent revision of
targeting has resulted in more women now receiving information directly at village level.
26.       While many activities have been developed to meet the needs of the new categories
of resource poor, there has been no strategy to implement the policy to address the equity
concems embodied in NAEP. This leaves DAE, and the BS, thana and district officers in
particular, without guidance when planning and implementing activities.
5



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix E: Summary Evaluation Report by DFID
27.       The establishment of gender sensitivity throughout DAE, approached through gender
training, has been a considerable achievement. A Women in Development (WID) Focal Point has
been created in DAE, but has no interaction with ASSP. This means that key planning work fails
to consider gender - for example, there has been limited recognition of the need to include social
and gender issues as specific tasks in job descriptions.
Environment
28.       The NAEP framework of policy, management and implementation accords well with
Agenda 21 and the National Environment Management Action Plan but the implementation of the
NAEP environment components has not developed an understanding or capability for
environmental issues within DAE. The NAEP makes full allowance for sustainable development
through integrating environment into development and requiring environmental impact
assessment (EIA) procedures. However, no EIA capability or procedures have been achieved.
Poor understanding and management of the "environment" and "impact assessment" have created
confusion and marginalised achievements in implementation.
29.       DAE's portfolio of extension messages and training now embrace environmental
issues as part of the "best practice" of technology transfer. DAE, through its collaborative
approach with other extension providers, is more capable in challenging its old crop bias and in
considering more integrated activities. Basic questions remain and procedures are outstanding to
ensure the soundness and rationality of extension messages, technologies and approaches.
Economic Performance
The economic internal rate of return (ERR) for the ASSP is estimated at 49.5%. The
project performance appears to be at the top end of that forecast in the SAR with higher coverage
of farmers but slightly lower return. The net present value (NPV) at 12% of the project is
estimated to be Tk 1,060 million and the benefit to cost ratio 1.88:1.
Future Action
30.       This Evaluation has identified a number of activities in which action needs to be
taken before the end of Phase IA of ASSP and others in which it should be considered for the
longer term development and sustainability of the REA. These are set out in the full DFID
evaluation reportl and elaborated in the annexes; the main points are summarised below:
Before the end of Phase 1A
31.       The targeting of services at farmer level has proved difficult; reviews are required of
the group approach, social issues and the definition of resource-poor farmers. BS need practical
guidance in the processes of needs analysis and working with groups. Participative approaches
Evaluation Mission, ASS Final Report Under Assignment by DFID, April 1998 (Overseas Development
Institute, ULG Consultants Ltd. and a team of national consultants).
6



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix E: Summary Evaluation Report by DFID
with farmers should be encouraged to improve extension services through local problem-solving
and skills development. Cooperation and partnership between organisations (NGOs, ARIs and
well-established groups, as well as government agencies) demand attention at all levels, most
critically in the thanas and villages.
32.       The momentum of institutional change has to be maintained. DAE needs official
approval and concrete support for its change programme; these could be stimulated by setting out
the changes in a single document. Government and donors should be pressed to resolve the
strains placed on DAE by the conflicting demands of the many projects. There are critical posts
in DAE to be filled, a restructuring proposal to be approved by MOA and training management
skills to be gained. Other improvements in training include the abolition of attendance payments
and cessation of cascade training for interactive skills. As they become completed, DAE must
take ownership of the various information systems and must provide the staffing and financial
resources to ensure their continuation. It should also ensure that technical audit and medium term
evaluation procedures are initiated and provide purposeful feedback to planning and
management. Meanwhile environmental sustainability is becoming a major issue demanding
action in both the short and long term and affecting the design, planning, monitoring, evaluation
and management of all activities under DAE.
33.       The ARIs have yet to make the Seed Divisions and BSU operational. Reporting is
required on Seed Technology Research findings and the effects of the Seed Exchange Scheme.
Longer term
34.       In the longer term, DAE faces the challenge of continuing the process of change and
avoiding any temptation to revert to the less effective (but less risky) top-down procedures of the
past. The changes already made have to be consolidated through the implementation of the
restructuring plan. Great improvements in service could be achieved if GOB agrees to relaxing
some controls on human and financial resource management so that DAE could make economies
and reward high productivity. All levels of management need to develop their use of information
to deliver constant improvements in the quality of extension service.
35.       As collaboration with NGOs and private sector agencies improves, contracts should
give way to partnerships, with enhancements in monitoring and evaluation taking the place of
preordained targets. DAE should seek ever better cooperation with other agencies and donors
and should develop its planning and monitoring systems to the point where all activities for all
projects are managed within the same systems. Environmental issues should similarly become an
integral part of the planning and implementation processes. This will require that DAE becomes
thoroughly acquainted with international requirements and builds the institutional capacity to
provide an environmentally sound service.
'7



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2233-BD)
APPENDIX F
PRELIMINARY INTERNAL EVALUATION REPORT ON AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT
SERVICES PROJECT (ASSP) AND OPERATIONAL PLAN BY THE DEPARTMENT OF
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION (DAE)
A. BACKGROUND
1.        The Government of Bangladesh financing of the ASSP project closes in June 1999
and a GOB project evaluation process will take place according to this schedule. However World
Bank financing of ASSP ended in June 1998 and an implementation completion report (ICR) was
produced following an evaluation mission that took place during that month.
2.        In response to the ICR DAE have been requested to submit an internal appraisal of
project performance and an operational plan stating how the organisation intends to sustain
project impacts.
3.        This paper has been produced in response to this specific request. It draws on various
documents already discussed and approved by the DAE- Management Committee. The document
has been produced internally by DAE and is not intended to pre-empt the IMED evaluation of
ASSP.
INTERNAL ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT PERFORMANCE
B. ACHIEVEMENTS OF ASSP
Implementing the Revised Extension Approach
4.        A revised extension approach (REA), consistent with the aims and objectives of
NAEP, was successfully designed and piloted with support from ASSP between 1992 and 1994.
In 1995, DAE published an extension manual, setting out systems, procedures, tools and
techniques for implementing this revised approach, which was subsequently adopted throughout
the country. DAEs experience of implementing the REA has led to a process of continual
improvement and a further edition of the manual will be published in 1998. The REA consists of
five basic principles.
-    Decentralisation. Responsibility for planning, budgeting, implementing,
monitoring and evaluation of extension programmes has been decentralised to
DAE staff at block, thana, district and regional levels.



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix F: Preliminary Intemal Evaluation Report on Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) and Operational Plan by the
Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE)
-    Targeting. DAE has recognised that extension services should be provided to
all category of farmers, to meet the needs and problems of both male and
female operators of both larger and smaller farms. To this end, DAE
management have adopted budget criteria to ensure that the majority of funds
available for implementing extension events are targeted at women and small
and marginal farmers.
-    Responding to Farmers Needs. Block Supervisors are now operating a
Farmer Information Needs Assessment (FINA) system, identifying the farmers
problems as the basis for all extension planning.
-    Using a Range of Extension Methods. DAE dramatically increased the range
of extension methods employed, with the support of ASSP, in order to increase
contact with farmers. Widespread use is now made of mass media and group
extension events.
-    Working With Groups. The REA has increased direct contact between
farmers and Block Supervisors (BS), who now work with groups rather than
individuals. Baseline estimates indicated that about 600,000 farmers
participated in extension events at the beginning of the project. Current impact
studies show that about 2 million farm households are contacted by DAE in
this way every year.
Development of Partnerships
5.        Linkages to other agencies have developed, particularly through the system  of
committees spearheaded by the Extension Policy Implementation Co-ordinating Committee
(EPICC). These now exist in each region (ATC), district (DEPC) and thana (TAECC), with
representation from a broad range of relevant public and private organisations.
6.        Partnerships have been established  between DAE  and NGOs, which have
strengthened contact with, and services to, poorer rural families. There is now general
understanding among DAE field staff that co-operation with NGOs is formally encouraged.
Selected representatives of NGOs are invited to all the NAEP implementation committees. ASSP
has sought to foster the involvement of NGOs in agriculture. Initially, the focus was upon
awarding contracts to NGOs to carry out homestead garden activities. DAE/MOA awarded 27
contracts during the first Phase of ASSP and 28 to 26 NGOs during Phase 1 a resulting in direct
benefits for large numbers of poor women farmers as well as developing the practice of
partnership. In addition to ongoing contracting activity a series of workshops at national, regional
and district level have now been conducted to help disseminate the NAEP to NGOs and provide
further momentum to DAE/NGO partnership building.



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix F: Preliminary Intemal Evaluation Report on Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) and Operational Plan by the
Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE)
Institutional Development
7.        During the early stages of the project, the emphasis was on technical development of
the revised extension approach, but, after mid-1995, more attention was focused on institutional
development within DAE. Significant achievements include the following:
-    DAE management staff developed a mission statement for the organisation,
based on the principles of the NAEP. This has been circulated to all staff. A
further Strategic Vision document is planned to be produced before the end of
1998.
-    DAE established a Management Committee comprising the heads of the eight
wings; to ensure co-ordination between wings, to exercise a collective
approach to departmental management, and to provide a forum for strategic
management. The Management Committee are engaged in a comprehensive
review of DAE's organisational structure.
-    A complete revision of DAE's Management Information System (MIS) is being
implemented with separate systems covering finance, personnel, training,
extension planning and activity monitoring, crop returns and general
information. The systems are computerised.
-    Human resource development initiatives are being implemented to improve the
effectiveness and motivation of staff. One example is the 'Work Programming'
approach to supervision, which involves Block Supervisors in planning their
own work.
-    DAE continues to play a central role in implementing NAEP through the
framework of committees; from the TAECC at the lowest level, to EPICC at
national level.
Strengthening the Seed Sector
8.        Farmers throughout Bangladesh consistently rank lack of quality seed among their
most serious problems. In recognition of this a separate seeds component of ASSP has worked
with Agricultural Research Institutes (ARI), Seed Wing of MOA, and DAE to improve the
availability of quality seed to farmers.
-    Eight Breeder Seed Units (BSU) have been established at BRRI, EIARI and
BJRI stations with comprehensive manuals on variety maintenance.
-    DAE have implemented a major programme to train farmers in seed awareness.
Over 100,000 farmers have now been trained in this respect.



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr, 2233-BD)
Appendix F: Preliminary Internal Evaluation Report on Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) and Operational Plan by the
Departnent of Agricultural Extension (DAE)
-    A seed exchange scheme has been implemented nationally; improving the
availability of quality seed, especially in remote areas where there is limited
access to other sources.
Training
9.        The above listed achievements have been the result of an extensive and integrated
mix of project inputs including capital equipment, national and international technical assistance
and a major training programme. The latter has incorporated the upgrading to diploma level of
nearly all 11,000 Block supervisors, the delivery of 9 core training modules in support of the
implementation of the Revised Extension Approach, technical training in seeds related issues and
a programme of management and other training to support institutional development. This
training has been conducted both in Bangladesh and abroad and has involved the production and
dissemination of a substantial resource of training materials.
10.       In addition the project has strengthened the permanent capacity of DAE to carry out
training most particularly through investment in the ATls and CERDI.
Hortex Foundation
11.       The objective of this component was to promote the export of high value
horticultural crops through the establishment of an autonomous foundation that would develop
and implement pilot schemes. The Hortex Foundation has made very good progress since the
appointment of a new general manager with the successful pilot export of about 27 tons of fine
and extra fine French beans to the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Belgium and France. This
recent success has been achieved through active collaboration with the NGO, BRAC. The
Foundation has also prepared its FY99 program and a three year program beyond June 99 for
exploring donor support.
Economic Rate of Return
12.       An independent evaluation mission commissioned by DFID took place during
March/April 1998. This estimated the economic rate of return for the ASSP (excluding Hortex
Component) at 49.5% against a SAR projection ranging from 12% to 50%. The project
performance therefore appears to be at the top of the SAR forecast.
C. AREAS OF CONTINUING WEAKNESS
Institutional Capacity
13.       Although various achievements in the field of institutional development have been
cited DAE remains a long way from being an effective and efficient organisation capable of fully
achieving its stated mission. There are many areas of continuing organisational weakness,
consequently DAE have requested further support to the organisational change process via the
4



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix F: Preliminary Intemal Evaluation Report on Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) and Operational Plan by the
Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE)
ASIRP project. The key achievement of ASSP is that change has been initiated and a vision for a
future extension service has been developed. Further institutional capacity building in necessary
across the board if the vision is to be achieved.
Qualitative Improvement
14.       The ICR and earlier Independent Evaluation report revealed some weakness in the
implementation of the Revised Extension Approach. For example, while it is admirable that the
principle of farmer needs based extension has been widely accepted, field level staff remain
relatively unskilled at putting this philosophy into practice. The Revised Extension Approach
requires further consolidation in the field and aspects such as the group approach, targeting of
services and monitoring of extension impact will require continuing review and qualitative
improvement.
Partnership and Integrated Services
15.       A good start has been made towards increasing GO/NGO partnership under ASSP
and some tentative moves have been made, recently, towards the integration of GO extension
services to meet the entire needs of the farmer. Recent recommendations by a joint working
group for changes in the modalities of the EPICC system of committees will help (e.g. revolving
chairmanship of TAECCs). A lot more work is needed for the principles of partnership, sharing
resources and collective action to become part of the normal mode of operations for DAE and
other agencies.
Environment Mainstreaming
16.       Following criticism  in the March  98 independent evaluation  report DAE
Management Committee accepted that more needs to be done to bring environmental concerns to
the centre of DAE decision making and to develop Environmental Impact Assessment capacity.
Subsequently a workshop has been held on this subject and a statement of intent developed.
D. OPERATIONAL PLAN/SUSTAINABILITY
17.       The DAE plan is to continue to change and develop in all or most Of the areas of
ASSP intervention. It is arguable that most impacts of ASSP are not yet sustainable without
further project assistance since support under ASIRP has been requested. The following extract
from the draft PCP outlines the proposed ASIRP intervention which may also be defined as the
core of the DAE operational plan for the next 3 years.
Institutional Development
18.       By the end of 1998, the DAE Management Committee will have been operational for
1.5 years. Its members will have started to evaluate new ways of improving performance by
developing the skills and motivation of DAE staff and by allocating resources more effectively.



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix F: Preliminary Intemal Evaluation Report on Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) and Operational Plan by the
Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE)
DAE will have prepared a "Strategic Vision" paper describing the nature of the organisational
changes it is proposing to achieve its mission. ASIRP is designed to provide technical support to
DAE through the next phase in its change and development process.
19.       Activities will concentrate broadly in consolidating the gains that have been made
and developing further capacity in Human Resource Management and Financial Management and
Planning,
Human Resource Management
20.       The key task concerning the DAE organisational change process is to develop the
capacity of existing managers and field staff through continued training, facilitation and exposure
to new ways of working. Initiatives to support this process may include:
-    achieving greater control over acquisition and utilisation of staff by developing
a Human Resource Planning strategy to ensure effective staff deployment and
succession planning; and
-    developing effective and fair methods of measuring and reviewing staff
performance.
21.       ASIRP will reinforce the process through which DAE is seeking to become an
efficient and purposeful organisation with a strong degree of decentralisation. The project will:
-    encourage closer linkages between the DAE Wings;
-    play down the controlling function of HQ Dhaka. while supporting the HQ role
as a point of leadership and source of technical expertise; and
-    encourage DAE to make better use of existing resources.
Financial Management and Planning
22.       In consolidating the achievements of ASSP, the simple new computerised accounting
procedures that make up DAEs MIS will require further support to ensure that they are effectively
used. A learning process is essential for the sustainable establishment of any new MIS,
particularly within an organisation which is undergoing significant changes in management
methods and outlook.
23.       Other MIS activities concern additional innovations to further enhance the
sustainability and effectiveness of information flows and use within DAE. The highest priority is
for additional strengthening of the MIS Section in the Planning and Evaluation Wing and the
establishment of a Central Computer Support Unit. Other proposed activities include:
-    Development of a client-based participatory evaluation system to enhance
effectiveness of existing participatory planning procedures used in FINA.
6



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix F: Preliminary Intemal Evaluation Report on Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) and Operational Plan by the
Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE)
-    Development of a project planning database.
-    Review of the practical possibilities for information technology development at
levels below the District.
-    Design and establishment of IT linkages between DAE and MOA.
24.       The DFID's supported RIBEC project has been working with the Ministry of Finance
in reviewing the annual budgeting system. It has helped GOB to introduce new ways of
categorising expenditures on the revenue and development budgets for the present 1998/99 year
and is working in pilot sites in the Ministries of Health and Education. It is proposed to extend
this support to MOA and DAE under ASIRP. The objective would be to ensure that
improvements in financial planning and budgeting should be planned and implemented in parallel
in MOA and DAE. The aims would be to:
-    achieve more consistent treatment between revenue and development funding
for extension operations;
-    provide a basis for more delegation of financial authority from MOA to DAE
and from DAE HQ to districts and thanas; and
-    achieve a more timely disbursement of funds for implementation of local
extension plans.
Accelerating the Implementation of NAEP
25.       ASSP succeeded in establishing a national framework for implementing NAEP and
DAE adopted the policy by implementing it's revised extension approach. ASIRP aims to
consolidate DAE staff skills in key areas of the approach, while at the same time encouraging
innovative approaches focusing on three themes:
-    integrating environmental objectives into policy;
-    improving communication between farmers, extension agents and research;
and
-    improving collaboration between extension agents at the thana level.
Integrating Environmental Objectives Into Policy
26.       The GOB is committed to sustainable development in the Five Year Plan, the
National Environment Management Action Plan (NEMAP) and the National Conservation
Strategy (NCS). These initiatives have been well supported by NGOs and donors and benefit
from continued public participation.



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix F: Preliminary Internal Evaluation Report on Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) and Operational Plan by the
Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE)
27.        The NAEP fully embraces sustainable development by explicitly integrating
environment and impact assessment objectives. However its implementation strategy has not
specifically dealt with sustainability and environmental issues. This deficiency will be addressed
by ASIRP.
28.        ASIRP will facilitate creation of a sustainable capability amongst extension service
providers to understand and carry out their environmental obligations by assisting them in the
following steps:
initiating a system of capacity building and awareness raising at all levels in
DAE and its key partners whereby the philosophy of sustainable development,
impact assessment and partnership for change is well-established;
-    developing procedural mechanisms, responsibilities, training and resourcing to
-    ensure that all impact assessment processes and environmental management
procedures are fully integrated into DAE operations; and
-    pilot, test and implement catalytic approaches capable of integration with the
NEMAP process and of being sustained without ongoing donor support.
Improving Communication between Farmers, Extension and Research
29.        DAE revised its extension approach under ASSP to provide a framework for more
farmer responsive extension services. The mechanisms for communication between farmers,
extension and research workers, provide the foundation for the extension approach and ASIRP
will build on the progress which has already been made, specifically in three crucial areas:
-    Improving targeting criteria. DAE's policy is to target most of the available
funds for extension activities at women, small scale and marginal farmers.
However, DAE's targeting criteria are based on administrative definitions of
size of land holding which do not always provide an accurate measure of
wealth. ASIRP will support a process to review targeting critria, test, and
implement alternative systems to ensure that poorer farmers are identified more
accurately.
-    Improving Farmer Information Needs Assessment. DAE's adoption of a
Farmer Information Needs Assessment System demanded a shift in attitudes
and established the Block Supervisor (BS) in a new role. The BS is now a
facilitator and agent of change, rather than a provider of top-down information.
A further period of support will be required to reinforce this fundamental
change and ASIRP will provide funds to continue the consolidation training of
Block Supervisors The Problem Census is currently the main Participatory
Rural Appraisal technique employed by DAE for FINA, but there has been a
tendency for the output to reflect issues that DAE have traditionally addressed
while sometimes, other valid needs go unrecognised. ASIRP will review and
R



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix F: Preliminary Internal Evaluation Report on Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) and Operational Plan by the
Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE)
pilot alternative PRA techniques which may be more easily applied, with more
appropriate outputs.
-    Improving links between Research and Extension. Targeting as a procedure
is well understood by thana and district level DAE staff, but the idea that
different target groups have different needs is less appreciated. ASIRP will
support a process to ensure that appropriate messages go to the different farmer
categories. This will include testing and piloting initiatives to involve research
workers, farmers and extension staff in collaborative programmes to identify
potential new technologies that are appropriate for poorer farmers.
Improving Collaboration between Extension Agents at the Thana Level
30.       ASIRP will support efforts by MOA, in consultation with its extension partners, to
widen participation in the TAECCs and to activate collaborative thana extension programmes. A
Partnership Unit will be established in DAE with technical assistance under ASIRP to co-ordinate
these activities. Two funding mechanisms are proposed:
-    A provision of about Tk 18,000,000 for each of the proposed three years of the
project, to be made available to every TAECC for funding collaborative
extension events involving GOs, NGOs and Research Institutes.
-    A provision of about Tk 30,000,000 available in 10 pilot districts for more
intensive collaborative programmes at the Thana level.
Improved Farm Water Management Demonstration
31.       It is proposed that this element be included as a sub-component of the broad ASIRP
project with support from FAO. The estimated cost of this sub-component is US$300,000.
32.       The intention is to demonstrate on-farm water management technologies that will
increase annual crop output in the drier parts of the country with particular emphasis on
sustainability and identifying technologies that will improve financial retums to the farmer.
33.       The implementing agency will be the recently established Water Management and
Agricultural Engineering Wing of DAE and the component will serve to build the capacity of this
Wing and of DAE generally in the field of On Farm Water Management.
34.       The specific objectives of the component are:
-    to implement demonstrations on improved on-farm water management and
crop husbandry in selected sites;
-    to expand the command area under each irrigation device (pump) through crop
diversification and intensification;
a



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix F: Preliminary Intemal Evaluation Report on Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) and Operational Plan by the
Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE)
-    to promote improved operational techniques for using minor irrigation
equipment more efficiently, including supplementary irrigation of Aman crops;
-    to promote reliable low cost conveyance structures;
-    to develop packages of cost effective improved on-farm water management
technologies for subsequent replication in larger area;
-    to develop and implement training and extension programmes in improved on
farm management techniques in order to upgrade technical capabilities of the
Water Management and Agricultural Engineering Wing of DAE and other line
agencies of MOA;
-    to promote sustainability and equity issues including gender in the area of
irrigated agriculture; and
-    to develop guidelines for formation of effective farmers groups/organisation
for successful management and utilisation of the irrigation unit.
35.       This and other technical sub-components will be implemented in a-manner that is
consistent with NAEP and which integrates with established DAE planning & monitoring
systems.
Crop Yield Forecasting and Agrometeorological Advisory Services to Farmers
36.       This proposed ASIRP sub-component has received outline approval for funding by
WB. The estimated cost of this sub-component is US$500,000. The development objective of this
component will be to support the operation and management of an Early Warning and Food
Information system which meets decision makers needs for food information and will contribute
towards improving food security through improved agrometeorological advisory services to
farmers. The component will make use of initial work already conducted on regression analysis
of crop yields and weather data, calculation of crop water balance indices and developing a
methodology for monitoring agrometeorological crop conditions.
37.       Component outputs would be:
-    expanded and improved agroclimatic database established;
-    computer network linking BMD and DAE and, eventually, FPMU established
to regularly share data and analyses;
-    agrometeorological crop forecasting capacity in DAE established;
-    methodology for agrometeorological advisory services and response farming
developed and tested;
10



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix F: Preliminary Intemal Evaluation Report on Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) and Operational Plan by the
Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE)
-    comprehensive plan to introduce agrometeorological and response farming
nationwide prepared;
-     methods and procedures developed and implemented by the project clearly
documented; and
-     staff in DAE and BMD trained in the use of methods and procedures for the
management of agrometeorological data, including the generation of
appropriate reports.
38.        Although of a specific technical nature the component will contribute to the
development of DAE capacity as a provider of information relevant to the localised needs of
Bangladesh Agriculture.
Soil Fertility and Soil Management at Village Level
39.        This sub component has received outline approval by WB and the estimated cost is
US$400,000. There is general agreement that improving and maintaining soil fertility levels is
vital if crop productivity and food security is to be raised. One important aspect of this is to
ensure that fertiliser use efficiency is maximised by developing a low cost and easily accessible
system of accurately relating fertiliser application rates to the fertility status of the soil.
40.        The specific objectives of the component would be:
-    to improve the current systems of soil fertility status;
-    to develop area/location specific fertiliser application rate recommendations,
on the basis of crop production functions, based on improved diagnosis of soil
fertility;
-     to develop a national database for fertiliser recommendations based on
cropping systems, and soil fertility status for each agro-ecological zone.
41.         The main activities to achieve these objectives carried out in three pilot thanas in
different agro-ecological zones would be:
(i)   Soil Testing making use of a fully staffed and equipped mobile soil laboratory;
(ii) Crop Demonstrations/trials in each of the selected thanas to compare and
monitor the fertiliser recommendations made as a result of the soil analyses;
(iii) Data collection using data collected from both secondary sources and the pilot
trials to develop more specific application rate recommendations according to
specific soil analysis indicators; and
II



Implementation Completion Report
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Support Services Project
(Cr. 2233-BD)
Appendix F: Preliminary Internal Evaluation Report on Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) and Operational Plan by the
Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE)
(iv) The development of training curricula for DAE staff (BS) in the use of soil
analysis to make fertiliser recommendations to be incorporated into the regular
in service training of DAE staff.
42.          The component is of a pilot nature and would be conducted in three thanas on the
basis of recognised soil fertility problems, variation of agro-ecological zones and that these
thanas were not already being supported through the existing SFFP project.
12



90.                                         91                                         92'
A
k-16
INDIA
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT
SERVICES PROJECT
-26'                                                                                                                                                                                                         26'
Aq,iclt-l T,.i.i.9                                         Up-d. 1-1-dq-a-
CERDI                                                       LO. ll..dq-t-
B-91.d-h Aq-lt-l U--iy                                      N.fi-l C.pitl
-----Up-1.
-zil.
t                                                                                25'
-25'
A,P,                                                                       71,
-N,
-24'                                                                                                                                                                                                         24 -
'7,
E                                                             I   N    D    I   A
J,
ma,,
i?-.-f  ,                      !,                                 ,  
INDIA                                                                                                                                 !o
23'                                                                                                                                                                                                         21
TA                 r                                                           -4-                                 T.,
3?k -qk I
4
Z
47    f
-22'
12'
z ZZ=Z
9:1
Wi, f
INDIA
O  3p  4.0  5I0 tALES                                                                                         MYANMAR
21'             6       iD      46       db       eb mLomErERs                                                                                              21'
91,                                         9r



