Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2233 BD
(Agricultural Support Services Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 17, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2233 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 17, 1991, between  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Overseas Development Agency (ODA) 
a grant (the ODA Grant) in an amount equivalent to $15,000,000 to assist in financing 
part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the ODA 
Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and ODA; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing July 1 
and ending June 30;
(b)
"Foundation" means the foundation to be established pursuant to the 
Borrower's Companies Act, for the purposes of developing horticultural exports;
(c)
"Shadow Market Rate" means such interest rate as shall be determined by 
Bangladesh Bank, on a semi-annual basis, for various lending categories. Such rate 
shall be determined by aggregating the Borrower's banking sector's average cost of 
funds, average administrative costs, cost of potential loan loss provisions, and a 
profit margin, or pursuant to such other method as shall be acceptable to the 
Association;
(d)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(e)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Foundation pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Subsidiary Agreement;
(f)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made by the Foundation to a farmer or group of 
farmers for purposes of Part E.2 of the Project; and
(g)
"taka" means the currency of the Borrower.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to twenty-four million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
24,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
convertible taka, in one or more commercial banks, five separate special deposit 
accounts in the name of the Department of Agricultural Extension, the Bangladesh 
Agricultural Research Institute, the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute, the 
Bangladesh Jute Research Institute, and the Foundation, respectively, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  3
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2001, and ending March 15, 2031. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2011, shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out 
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, and shall cause the Foundation to carry out Part E 
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, agricultural, engineering and financial practices and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall:
Page  4
(i)
relend a portion of the proceeds of the Credit to the Foundation 
for purposes of Part E.2 of the Project under a subsidiary 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
Foundation, under terms and conditions which shall be approved by 
the Association which shall include the following: (A) interest on 
the Subsidiary Loan shall be payable at an annual rate equal to 
the Shadow Market Rate less seven percent; (B) the Subsidiary Loan 
shall be repaid not later than June 30, 1997; and (C) the foreign 
exchange risk shall be borne by the Borrower; and
(ii)
make available, as a grant, a portion of the proceeds of the 
Credit to the Foundation for purposes of Part E.1 of the Project 
under the above referenced Subsidiary Agreement, under conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Association.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement 
referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A, B, C and D of 
the Project, the Borrower shall, by December 1, 1991, employ consultants whose 
qualifications, experience, and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause the Foundation, in carrying out Part E.2 
of the Project:
(a)
to provide Sub-loans to farmers producing horticultural products for 
export in accordance with procedures and on terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association which shall include the following: (i) interest on the 
Sub-loan shall be payable at an annual rate equal to the Shadow Market Rate; and (ii) 
the Sub-loan shall be repaid over a maximum period of one year; and (iii) when 
procured by the farmers, goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Sub-loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other 
relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods 
and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case 
of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them; and
(b)
to exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-loan in such manner as to: 
(i) protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association, (ii) comply with its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes of Part E 
of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Accounts, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
Page  5
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account for the Project were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Accounts was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Foundation to maintain records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the Foundation to:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause the Foundation to carry on its operations 
and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, agricultural, 
engineering and financial practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall cause the Foundation at all times to operate 
and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to 
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in 
accordance with sound agricultural, engineering and financial practices.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall cause the Foundation to take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association 
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate practice.
Page  6
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
(b)
The agreement referred to in paragraph 3 (c) (i) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms thereof.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that Section; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ODA Grant Agreement 
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement; 
and
(b)
the Borrower has approved the Project Proforma for the carrying out of 
the Project.
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The provisions of Article V of this Agreement shall cease and 
determine on the date on which this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on 
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the 
earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Secretary or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint Secretary, 
Deputy Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Economic Relations Division of the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  7
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
   Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
BAHIRSAMPAD 
642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(RCA)
Washington, D.C. 
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ A.H.S. Ataul Karim
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works,                               90%
     including
     architects fees:
     (a) Parts A, B.1           2,180,000
         and C.1 of
Page  8
         the Project
     (b) Part E.1                 150,000
         of the Project
(2)  Equipment, mate-                           100% of foreign
     rials and vehicles:                        expenditures,
                                                100% of local
     (a) Parts A, B.1           4,060,000       expenditures
         and C.2 of                             (ex-factory
         the Project                            cost) and 70%
                                                of local
     (b) Part B.6 of             100,000        expenditures for
         the Project                            other items
                                                procured locally
     (c) Part E.1 of             930,000
         the Project
 (3)  Sub-loans under          5,200,000        100%
     Part E.2 of
     the Project
(4)  Training:                                  100%
     (a) Part B.2 and          2,350,000
         B.3 of the
         Project
     (b) Part B.4 of             400,000
         the Project
(5)  Local services            4,170,000        85% in FY 1992
     under Part A                               through FY 1994,
     of the Project                             70% in FY 1995
                                                and FY 1996, and
                                                35% thereafter
(6)  Operation and             2,360,000        85% in FY 1992
     maintenance                                through FY 1994,
     for Parts A, B                             70% in FY 1995
     and C of the                               and FY 1996, and
     Project                                    35% thereafter
(7)  Unallocated               2,500,000
         TOTAL                24,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "local services" means agricultural supplies, incremental cost 
of manual labor and advertisement costs.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
 
(b)
Categories (2) (b) and (4) (b) for payments made for expenditures 
incurred prior to July 1, 1995; and
(c)
Categories (2) (c) and (3) until: (i) the Borrower has entered into an 
agreement with the United States Agency for International Development for the 
financing of the establishment and the operation of the Foundation, (ii) the 
Foundation has been established with powers and staffing satisfactory to the 
Page  9
Association, and (iii) the Borrower has entered into the Subsidiary Agreement referred 
to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase agricultural production, 
especially foodgrains, and initiate a diversification process aimed at the 
introduction of high value export crops.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Technology Transfer
 
1.
Carrying out of about 36,000 on-farm demonstrations annually, with a primary 
focus on local agricultural production issues.
2.
Carrying out of farmer field days and meetings at all administrative levels of 
the Borrower's Districts to broaden the outreach of extension information, including 
meetings with non-governmental organizations, commercial farm input suppliers, and 
other groups in the private sector with linkage to agriculture. 
3.
Carrying out of media campaigns, including radio, television and newspapers, and 
production of basic extension pamphlets to publicize field demonstration.
4.
Carrying out of adaptive research work in collaboration with the research 
institutes, farm demonstrations, field days and promotional campaigns to strengthen 
technology transfer by local government at the upazila level including contribution of 
local revenues for such activities.
5.
Construction of Extension Centers (two per District) for use as an office by 
Block supervisors and as a meeting place for farmers.
6.
Acquisition of about 1,390 motorcycles and about 10,000 bicycles for extension 
field staff; and acquisition of computers,  televisions, VCRs, public address systems 
and related equipment for use in demonstration activities, field days and farmer 
meetings.
Part B:
Training
 
1.
Rehabilitation of ten of the Borrower's Agricultural Training Institutes (ATI) 
and of the Central Extension Resources Development Institute (CERDI), including: 
construction and renovation of buildings and staff housing; improvement of water 
supply; upgrading of internal roads; acquisition of laboratory, teaching and kitchen 
equipment; acquisition of minibuses, four-wheel drive vehicles and motorcycles for 
each of the ATIs and for CERDI.
2.
In-service training of middle and professional level staff of the Borrower's 
Department of Agricultural Extension to upgrade extension skills; and initial training 
of agricultural graduates joining the Department of Agricultural Extension.
3.
Carrying out of one-day training courses for farmers at demonstration sites, 
research sub-stations, multi-locational trial sites and irrigation schemes.
4.
Carrying out of local post-graduate and professional training of middle- and 
senior-level staff of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, and career development 
courses for selected Block supervisors having completed two-year diploma training.
5.
Provision of foreign long- and short-term training and study tours for staff of 
the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture.
6.
Provision of training materials and publications. 
 
Part C:
Seed Industry Development
 
Improvement and expansion of maintenance breeding and breeder seed 
multiplication at each of nine of the Borrower's research sub-stations through:
1.
Construction of seed processing and storage facilities.
Page  10
2.
Acquisition of vehicles, laboratory equipment, and office equipment and 
furniture.
3.
Acquisition of seed processing and conditioning equipment and farm machinery.
 
Part D:
Homestead Production Component
 
Establishment of technology transfer services, with the assistance of relevant 
Non-Government Organizations, for homestead garden production with special emphasis on 
developing income generating opportunities for women.
Part E:
Agro-Business Development
 
Development of horticultural exports from small farmers through:
1.
Development of three pilot schemes, each including construction of a small 
packing and storage plant, acquisition of a refrigerated transport vehicle, and 
carrying out of demonstration activities.
2.
Provision of credit to farmers for the financing of the production, the 
processing and the export marketing of horticultural products.
*           *           *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association.
2.
Goods for Parts A, B, C.2 and E.1 of the Project estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $10,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $50,000, 
and goods for Part E.2 of the Project when procured by the Foundation, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from 
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $10,000 or more, and the first three contracts for civil works awarded in 
accordance with Part C.1 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract 
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished 
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the 
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in 
respect of such contract.
Page  11
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the  Association as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis 
of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than 
December 31, 1991, prepare a program, acceptable to the Association, to improve the 
effectiveness of the extension staff of the Borrower's Department of Agricultural 
Extension; and, thereafter, promptly carry out such program.
2.
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall, by October 31, 1991, 
take all actions required to establish the autonomous role and the broader structure 
of the District Technical Committees.
3.
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall:
 
(a)
not later than March 31, 1992, prepare a detailed farmer training needs 
assessment and a training action plan for Part B of the Project, satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(b)
not later than June 30, 1992, incorporate in the Borrower's National 
Training Plan the Project training action plan referred to in paragraph (a) above.
4.
In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall:
 
(a)
not later than October 31, 1991, establish a Seed Wing in its Ministry of 
Agriculture;
(b)
not later than June 30, 1992, cause the Bangladesh Agricultural 
Development Corporation to restrict the marketing of its seeds to wholesaling to 
private dealers;
(c)
not later than June 30, 1992, take all necessary actions to allow both 
public and private sector seed companies to freely import, under normal quarantine 
controls, all types of crop seeds for testing;
(d)
not later than June 30, 1992, furnish to the Association, for comments, 
the proposed amendments to the seed regulations relating to varietal registration and 
seed importation, and, thereafter, promptly take all necessary steps to issue 
amendments taking into account the Borrower's Draft Seed Policy dated July 1990; and
(e)
not later than October 31, 1991, take all necessary actions to allow 
private seed companies equal access with the Bangladesh Agricultural Development 
Corporation to breeder and foundations seeds produced by the Borrower's research 
institutes.
5.
The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1994, carry out, in consultation 
with the Association, a mid-term review of the implementation of the Project and, 
promptly thereafter, take any actions recommended by such review.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
Page  12
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means in respect of each Special 
Account, the convertible taka amount specified below for each such Special Account, to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the respective Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule:
(i)
the Department of Agricultural Extension Special Account, 
convertible taka 46,500,000;
(ii)
the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute Special Account, 
convertible taka 5,400,000; 
(iii)
the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute Special Account, 
convertible taka 2,700,000; 
(iv)
the Bangladesh Jute Research Institute Special Account, 
convertible taka 2,700,000; and 
(v)
the Foundation Special Account, convertible taka 32,200,000.
 
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation in respect of each Special Account. 
On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit in the respective Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Accounts at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of said Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Accounts, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
Page  13
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into said Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
