                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                     Report No: 31024

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                         (CPL-39020 SCL-3902A SCPD-3902S TF-53712)

                                           ON A

                                           LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$55 MILLION

                                           TO THE

                          BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA

                                            FOR

                   A NATIONAL PARKS INSTITUTE (INPARQUES) PROJECT




                                      December 29, 2004




ESSD Sector Managment Unit
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru & Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective )

                            Currency Unit = Venezuelan Bolivar (Bs.)
                      Bs. 1600.00 Bolivar = US$ 1.00

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                   1995   2005

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CORDIPLAN             Ministerio de Coordinacion y Planificacion (Ministry of
                      Coordination and Planning)
FONACIT               Fondo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología e Innovación (National
                      Fund for Science Technology and Innovatio)
GEF                   Global Environment Facility
GIS                   Geographic Information System
HIDROVEN              Hidrológica Venezolana
IFE                   Informe Finales de Ejecución (Final Implementation Report)
INPARQUES             National Parks Institute
Llanos                Venezuela's plains
MARN                  Ministerio del Ambiente y de los Recursos Naturales (Ministry of
                      Environment and Natural Resources)
MAC                   Ministerio de Agricultura y Cría (Ministry of Agricultura and
                      Livestock)
NGO                   Non Governmental Organization
P.N.                  Parques Nacionales (National Parks)
PCU                   Project Coordination Unit
PROFAUNA              Venezuela's Fish and Wildlife Conservation Service
SADA AMAZONAS         Servicio Autónomo para el Desarrollo Ambiental
                      del Territorio Federal Amazonas (Government Organization for the
                      Amazon)
SAR                   Staff Appraisal Report
TA                    Technical Assistance

                           Vice President:   David de Ferranti
                        Country Director     Marcelo M. Giugale
                          Sector Manager     Abel Mejia
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Oscar Avalle

                                        VENEZUELA
                                       Inparques Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         4
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          12
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            17
6. Sustainability                                                                19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
8. Lessons Learned                                                               23
9. Partner Comments                                                              26
10. Additional Information                                                       35
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             36
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             40
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             41
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             42
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             44
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                45
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            46

Project ID: P008237                                                  Project Name: Inparques Project
Team Leader: Oscar Avalle                                            TL Unit: LCC6A
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Inparques Project                                        L/C/TF Number: CPL-39020; SCL-3902A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3902S
   Country/Department: VENEZUELA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (40%); Sub-national government
                            administration (40%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry
                            sector (14%); General education sector (6%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Environmental policies and institutions (P); Natural
                            disaster management (S); Participation and civic engagement (S);
                            Other urban development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/07/1994                                     Effective: 01/23/1996                01/23/1996
     Appraisal: 01/30/1995                                         MTR: 10/12/1998                  09/14/1998
      Approval: 06/13/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/2000                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/INPARQUES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javid Burki
Country Director:               Marcelo Giugale                                Andres Solimano
Sector Manager:                 Abel Mejia                                     Maritta Koch-Weser
Team Leader at ICR:             Oscar Avalle                                   Richard Huber
ICR Primary Author:             Ipek Alkan; Oscar Avalle
Ipek Alkan and Oscar Avalle
2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

 The US$55 million INPARQUES loan, approved by the World Bank Board on May 12, 1995,
 was specifically designed to help raise environmental awareness and improve institutional
 capacity to manage Venezuela's rich endowment of biological and cultural resources. The
 design of the project incorporated the lessons learned from the experience of similar
 conservation projects in Venezuela, especially in the areas of: (i) management and institutional
 capacity building; (ii) local community participation; (iii) decentralization of management and
 technical decisions; and (iv) revenues.

 The SAR states the project objectives as follows:

(a)     to strengthen the capability of INPARQUES and other key public agencies involved in
environmental protection to manage Venezuela's          national and urban parks, natural monuments
and wildlife refuges;
(b)     to intensify public environmental research, training and education efforts; and
(c)     to improve the financial sustainability of national parks and other protected areas.

3.2 Revised Objective:

As a result of the floods that occurred in the northeast coastal area of Venezuela on December 15,
1999, the objectives were revised through an amendment dated June 14, 2000, in order to provide
support for the Borrower's efforts to repair and/or rehabilitate facilities damaged by these floods.
The following objective was added to the original three objectives:

        (d) Restoring access to selected national parks and rehabilitating water supply systems in
        areas affected by floods which occurred on December 15, 1999.

The borrower also requested a one year extension of the project's closing date, from June 30,
2000 to June 30, 2001, to finalize implementation of the new components and the remaining tasks
which the Bank granted. However, the Bank was forced to delay the approval of the closing date
extension request due to the irregularities identified in the 1999 audit. The borrower subsequently
agreed to a partial cancellation of US$8 million and to take appropriate actions in financial
management and procurement systems in line with Bank standards to address the issues identified
(on September 28, 2000). The project finally closed in June 2004, after having been extended a
total of five time.

3.3 Original Components:



 The original four components and the distribution of financing are listed in the table below:




                                                 - 2 -

                                     The Government      World Bank        Total
US$ Million                          Amount     %        Amount     %      Amount   %
A.- Parks management
 National Parks                      27.4       47.8     29.9       52.2   57.3     59.6
 Recreational Parks                  6.9        46.5     8          53.5   14.9     15.6
 Wildlife reserves                   0.8        52.9     0.7        47.1   1.5      1.6
Subtotal A.-                         35.1       47.7     38.6       52.4   73.8     76.8
B.- Environmental Research           0.4        5        7.5        95     7.9      8.2
C.- Environmental Education          0.4        9.9      3.2        90.1   3.6      3.8
D.- Institutional Strengthening      5.2        48       5.6        52     10.8     11.3

Total Disbursements                  40.9       42.8     55         57.2   95.9     100


 Component A: Parks Management and Protection (US$73.7 million; 77 percent of total
 costs):

 The original SAR established an ambitious investment plan (three-quarters of the total resources)
 for park infrastructure. A field survey identified a significant and immediate need of basic
 infrastructure for park management and administration throughout the system of protected areas
 (park ranger posts, administrative facilities, access roads, vehicles, boats, telecommunications,
 and equipment, among others).

 The original project document included the following sub-components:
(a)       Improvement of the administration and management of 20 national parks and two groups
of natural monuments through the provision of basic            infrastructure, equipment, and
personnel.
(b)       Improvement of infrastructure and equipment in two PROFAUNA wildlife refugees
(Cuare and Tortuga Arrau).
(c)       The strengthening of the administration and management of seven urban recreational parks
located in the country's largest metropolitan areas. (d)       Expansion of INPARQUES fire
prevention and control capacity.


 Component B: Environmental Research (US$7.9 million; 8 percent of total costs).

 The research component was designed to support conservation management decisions through a
 considerable effort in applied research. This component was to be carried out by academic
 institutions and nongovernmental entities through cooperation agreements with or without
 co-financing requirements, with the objective to increase the availability of information required
 for sustainable park management. The project would finance data acquisition and research
 programs and a limited acquisition of infrastructure, equipment and materials needed to make
 use of the research outcomes and to support research activities inside the parks. The component
 included the following sub-components:
(a)       The acquisition and systematization of baseline information on national park environments.

(b)       Basic studies leading to the preparation of management plans for two national parks and
two groups of national monuments in the State of       Amazonas.



                                                  - 3 -

(c)     Monitoring of physical and biological processes, including water quality studies, in five
coastal and marine national parks and wildlife                population studies and management
programs in two wildlife refuges and adjacent national parks.
(d)     Studies on environmental issues, national parks and protected areas.
(e)     The establishment of five stations which would support the research activities of
INPARQUES and PROFAUNA, and would also be used                by universities and NGOs.
(f)     A consultant specialized in research on biodiversity protection would be retained under the
institutional development component to help orient the INPARQUES research program and
offer advice in ways to better incorporate research outcomes into current park management.


 Component C: Environmental Education (US$3.6 million, 4 percent of total costs).

 This component was designed to strengthen INPARQUES outreach program, mobilize
 communities and interest groups in favor of conservation programs and increase public
 participation in INPARQUES activities.        Its focus was on information dissemination, staff
 training and communication and interaction with the community and interest groups.

 Based on the past experience of INPARQUES in environmental education, the project would
 support the expansion and establishment of present and new educational activities in a number of
 urban recreational parks, national parks and wildlife refuges. The program would strengthen the
 INPARQUES decentralization program, with the reach and depth of environmental education
 activities being greatly increased by training volunteers as multiplying agents. This would also
 increase the involvement of local community groups, NGOs and educational associations. The
 programs were designed to reach the entire spectrum of park users, including local communities
 within and around national parks, school-age children and their families, volunteer groups and
 park visitors, and the broader society at large in Venezuela. Financing would be provided for
 educational and planning equipment for the INPARQUES central office, visitors and information
 centers, training and incremental staffing costs. This public educational effort was expected to
 lead to noticeable changes in public perceptions and behavior, in support of natural resource
 conservation.


 Component D: Institutional Development (US$10.8 million; 11 percent of total costs).

 This component was designed to support project administration activities and institutional
 strengthening of INPARQUES, through decentralization of the INPARQUES administrative and
 technical functions, strengthening of INPARQUES in-house training capacity and provision of
 essential technical assistance and equipment. The purpose of this component was to increase
 INPARQUES's conservation management capacity to meet immediate and future challenges and
 move the institution in the direction of a modern, efficient, articulated and self-sufficient entity
 effectively in charge of the country's natural and cultural heritage.


3.4 Revised Components:

 As a result of the catastrophic floods of December 1999, a significant portion of the Bank's



                                                 - 4 -

 portfolio in Venezuela was reoriented to address the emergency. The modification of the
 INPARQUES project came in the form of:

        (i)     redefinition of activities within the former components, with an overall reduction
        of the project size;
        (ii)    creation of two additional components to address the emergency and
        (iii)   reallocation of resources to fund these new components. (Amendment of June 14,
        2000).

 The new components were:

 Component E Emergency works in selected national parks affected by the floods (US$6.8
 million) for debris removal, road and bridge rehabilitation and slope stabilization.

 Component F Water supply systems (US$10.0 million) for repair and rehabilitation of water
 supply systems in areas in the States of Vargas and Miranda. This component was to be carried
 out by HIDROVEN (Hidrológica Venezuela), the Borrower's water corporation.

 Accordingly, the project cost was reallocated as follows:

 Park management and protection:        US$34,200,000
 Environmental research:                US$ 7,900,000
 Environmental education:               US$ 3,600,000
 Institutional development:             US$10,800,000
 Emergency works y selected parks: US$ 6,800,000
 Water supply systems:                  US$10,000,000

 Cancellation:
 Through the September 28, 2000 amendment the borrower and the Bank agreed to cancel US$8
 million of the loan, due to the irregularities identified by the 1999 audit , as described in 3.2.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

 Despite the strategic relevance of the project's objectives to the country's key development
 priorities in environmental protection, Quality at Entry is rated unsatisfactory.

 The project followed-up on the findings of a 1991 Environmental Issues paper for Venezuela
 (IBRD Report No. 8272-VE) which mentioned the need to strengthen Venezuela's capacity to
 enforce environmental standards and to manage its natural resources on a sustainable basis. To
 address these concerns, in December 1992, the National Parks Management Project (VE-3535)
 was approved by the Board. However, this project was withdrawn by the Bank in 1994 (18
 months after approval) due to long delays in signing and effectiveness. In 1993 and 1994,
 despite the withdrawal of the loan, INPARQUES continued to carry out some of the
 components using its own budget (some of these activities were later financed by the
 INPARQUES project as retroactive expenditures).                Finally, following a request from
 Government to revive the project in late 1994, and actions taken by both the executive and


                                                   - 5 -

 legislative branches to establish their commitment to the project and to avoid the previous
 problems, the project was re-appraised in January-February 1995, and renamed the "Venezuela
 INPARQUES Project", to distinguish it formally from the withdrawn loan.

The objectives and design of this new project were fully consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Venezuela (November 1993), which focused on increased
efficiency and decentralization of public services, private sector development, poverty alleviation,
and environmental protection. Within this CAS framework, the project would address primarily
environmental protection issues and decentralize and increase the efficiency of INPARQUES,
while contracting many of the INPARQUES activities to the private sector and to the NGOs.

Given the country context and capacity, the project design proved to be overly ambitious and
complex which resulted in significant implementation delays. Design shortcomings included: (i)
limited evaluation and consideration of technical, financial and economic aspects/needs; and (ii)
inadequate implementation capacity building, especially in disbursements, procurement and
financial management areas. The design of the project also did not take into account the weak
policy and institutional environment to carry out institutional changes included in the project (e.g.
decentralization). As a result, INPARQUES institutional capacity to manage the protected areas
under its jurisdiction and to implement the project's activities was weaker than diagnosed. Given
these circumstances, institutional strengthening measures planned by the project were insufficient
and the proposed investments in infrastructure and management tools were ambitious in terms of
the existing ability of INPARQUES to carry them out efficiently. Finally, although the project
design included detailed implementation and impact indicators, the baseline data that would enable
a meaningful monitoring and evaluation system was not integrated to the project design.

With the benefit of hindsight, it is worth noting that although the SAR estimated the need for
institutional strengthening in INPARQUES, it could not foresee the political changes ahead -and
the subsequent instability and changes in leadership, nor it could predict the effects of the
economic decline due to decreasing oil revenues and the subsequent erosion of purchasing power
and its effect on institutional capacity (through loss of technical staff), on-site presence
(equipment and infrastructure) and management capacity (staff training, community outreach and
communications).


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

 In order to better understand the challenges this project has faced during implementation it is
 important to make a brief historical recount of the project from inception to completion. Project
 implementation can be summarized under three main phases: first phase from 1996 to October
 1999, second phase from November 1999 to September 2000, and a third phase from October
 2000 to June 2004.

 The project's implementation period (1996-2004) stretches two administrations characterized by
 different ideologies, a change in the national Constitution, a troubled transition period with street



                                                - 6 -

 demonstrations and massive labor unrest, and a presidential recall election. As a result of these
 troubled political times, discontinuity and uncertainty affected INPARQUES leadership (seven
 different Presidents), the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources -MARN (five different
 Ministers), and the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) (seven different Coordinators). As a
 consequence of this structural instability turnaround of staff trained by the project to enhance the
 management capacity of INPARQUES at all levels was high, negatively affecting continuity.

 First Phase (1996 - 1999). The actual implementation of project activities started on January 23,
 1996. It was extremely slow at first due to the need to appoint and train technical and
 administrative staff, organize the PCU, allocate counterpart resources and produce engineering
 and architectural designs as well as to clarify land tenure issues related to park infrastructure.
 During this period, two of the governmental institutions (SADA-AMAZONAS and
 PROFAUNA) which were to play an important role in strengthening the management capacity of
 remote protected areas and wildlife refuges, were eliminated during the restructuring of MARN.
 Consequently, the implementation agreement signed by these entities with INPARQUES was
 suspended. One essential project monitoring aspect which was to be completed during the first
 year was the definition of a baseline and the design of specific criteria to measure impact. The
 consultancy was never contracted and presently, the achievement and impact of project
 development objectives cannot be evaluated in a proper and objective manner.

 It was during this phase that the national elections of 1998 brought significant changes in the
 political leadership of the country, which also involved substantive ideological changes. Such
 changes demanded the revision and redrafting of the Constitution which emphasized community
 participation and for the first time recognized the ancestral rights of the indigenous people of
 Venezuela. During this period INPARQUES had three different Presidents and the PCU had two
 different Coordinators.

Second Phase (1999 - September 2000). During this phase, the project was restructured and the
following activities were carried out: (a) the reassignment of US$10 million for disaster relief
(Vargas floods), (b) the reassignment of US$6.8 million for emergency investments in national
parks affected by the disaster and (c) the cancellation of US$8 million from the original loan
amount. This period is also remembered for the extreme volatility in INPARQUES leadership and
also for administrative weaknesses. Key staff trained in managing the loan investment components
during the previous years, were replaced and procurement services contracted to an external
entity unfamiliar with Bank procurement and contracting procedures. The results of the 1999
audit presented to the Bank in September 2000 indicated that the Financial Management
arrangements of the project were not fully in line with Bank requirements. The Bank requested
actions to be taken to address the issues identified and INPARQUES took the necessary actions
to comply with the Bank's Financial Management requirements.             Also during this period a
possible mis-procurement case from 1999 was reported. The investigation took place in 2001 but
did not establish any conclusive evidence to recommend action.

Many activities and programs were slowed down and infrastructure investments were carried out
primarily in the two urban parks located in and near Caracas (P.N. del Este, and P.N. del Avila).
The resources assigned for the SADA-AMAZONAS component within the largest and most



                                                - 7 -

remote national park in the country (P.N.Amazonas) were eliminated from the budget. The
country's economy during this period was affected by a very high inflation rate (59 percent) which
affected the amount of counterpart funds available for investments and operational requirements.
During this period INPARQUES had two Presidents, the PCU had three Coordinators and the
WB replaced Task Managers two times.

Third Phase (October 2000 - June 2004). This was the most successful phase of implementation
for the project, which was characterized by better leadership in INPARQUES and implementation
of a more coherent set of organizational reforms and institutional commitments towards achieving
project goals. Constructive debates were started on sustainable development through ecotourism
and sustainable farming activities within protected areas as well as community participation in
conservation activities. During this period INPARQUES was included in the Government's Six
Year Plan (2002-2007) and thus into national planning and budgetary processes. Efforts were
made to give INPARQUES financial autonomy, or at least partial sustainability, through cost
sharing, improved fee collection and payments for environmental services. Also included in this
phase were the introduction of rational accounting and management systems, the installation of a
Geographic Information System (GIS), and the reorganization of the institution according the
new political mandate (poverty alleviation through sustainable use and community participation).
Considerable advances were also made in fee collection, private concession within protected
areas, community participation in park management (Morrocoy) and in applied research activities.
During this period US$9 million was disbursed. Successive amendments to the loan agreement
allowed the project to be extended from June 2000 to June 2004. INPARQUES was led from
October 2000 to May 2004 by one President, (followed by two interim Presidents to date), one
Minister of MARN and one PCU Coordinator.

Despite these improvements achieved during the third phase, the achievement of overall project
objectives and outcomes for this project are rated unsatisfactory.

The first objective -- strengthening the management of national and urban parks, natural
monuments and wildlife refugees and reserves -- required achievements on many different fronts,
including physical infrastructure, human resources development, strengthening of relations with
surrounding communities and implementation of sustainable activities for resident communities, to
enable the protected areas/parks reach a "consolidated" state. This objective was achieved only
partially, since (a) management infrastructure was completed in a fewer number of protected areas
than expected; (b) human resources were trained in some aspect of park management, however,
continuous changes in leadership affected motivation, increased staff turnover and reduced
productivity; and (c) participatory decision making processes could be practiced with only a few
number of communities, strengthening relations through better communications.                   If
"consolidation" of protected areas was a measure of success under this objective, only a few parks
(mostly urban parks) can be said to have been "consolidated" at levels of 30 percent to 50
percent.

The second objective -- intensifying public environmental research, training and education efforts
-- was defined in qualitative terms and quantitative indicators were not developed to measure the
degree of achievement. Efforts were made especially during the first and third phase of project



                                                - 8 -

implementation (achievement rate of 25 percent) but their impact in terms of park management
and conservation cannot be measured. Baseline studies which were performed for a number of
protected areas were essential inputs for the formulation of management plans and thus
contributed indirectly to better park management.                 Moreover, baseline studies conducted in
protected areas inhabited by indigenous communities, peasants or fishermen contributed in raising
awareness of the human development and socio-cultural issues which need to be addressed by
park management and conservation policies.

The third objective was to improve the economic sustainability of national parks and other
protected areas. The performance indicator to assess effectiveness and impact of this objective
was defined as "the share of INPARQUES' own revenues (or sales) as a percentage of its total
budget". The project success based on this indicator varied across years (actual levels higher than
SAR expected levels in 1996, 1997, 1999, 2001) but was at its lowest level in 2003, at 17
percent versus the SAR expected ratio of 42 percent at project exit (see Table 2 below), thus
failing to reach satisfactory levels of sustainability based on "own revenues."

Table 2

            INPARQUES              INPARQUES           Share of Own Revenues Share of Own Revenues
                                                                                                    Achievement Level
 Year      Own Revenues            Total Budget           in Total Budget       in Total Budget
                                                                                                   (Actual/SAR Expected)
         (Actual in million Bs) (Actual in million Bs)         (Actual)        Expected in SAR

 1996             528                  4,915                   10.7%                  20.6%                52.1%
 1997           1,018                 17,759                    5.7%                  22.9%                25.0%
 1998           1,183                 24,476                    4.8%                  25.3%                19.1%
 1999           2,011                 20,382                    9.9%                  27.6%                35.7%
 2000           2,322                 27,048                    8.6%                  30.0%                28.6%
 2001           2,886                 22,656                   12.7%                  34.0%                37.5%
 2002           2,593                 26,747                    9.7%                  38.0%                25.5%
 2003           2,191                 30,832                    7.1%                  42.0%                16.9%



The project overestimated the potential for developing sources of own revenues through entry
fees, concessions and especially, payment for environmental services (water, hydro-electricity).
Own revenues could not double in seven years as a result of fee collection and payment for
environmental services, because among other factors, the legal framework for environmental
services transactions didn't exist -- and still does not in Venezuela.

The fourth objective -- restoring access to selected national parks and rehabilitating water supply
systems in areas affected by the floods of December 1999 -- was successful if measured in terms
of funds invested versus road rehabilitation, water supply systems maintenance, flood control
measures and slope protection works delivered. Part of the reallocated funds (US$6.8 Million)
was invested in park infrastructure and watershed management measures mostly in the El Avila
National Park. The rest (US$10 million) was used to pay for activities carried out immediately
after the disaster, including rehabilitation of water supply systems in the affected areas and other
disaster relief works related to water supply and sanitation.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A: Park Management and Protection. This component is rated Unsatisfactory. Lack
of impact indicators does not permit an objective evaluation of the effects of investments in


                                                        - 9 -

infrastructure in regard to conservation management within the protected areas chosen and
prioritized for investments. In those few national parks where infrastructure investments were
made, park management capacity has improved compared to pre-project levels. Improved
infrastructure (road access, park ranger posts, signalization, visitor centers and administrative
offices, among others) also enhanced institutional visibility and corporate image especially in those
urban parks located inside and around Caracas.

It should be noted that this component absorbed more than three fourths of the total investment
which required considerable apprenticeship and effort on the part of INPARQUES in terms of
procurement and contracting according to World Bank standards. Moreover, the economic crisis
of the 1990s exacerbated the institutional weakness of INPARQUES in terms of technical
capabilities (design and engineering departments) and ability to plan and build park infrastructure
(construction and maintenance departments). A far-reaching and intensive investment program in
park infrastructure posed obvious challenges. Most of this component's activities were initiated
with considerable delays due to the fact that engineering and architectural studies had to be
contracted and INPARQUES' engineering department had to be strengthened in terms of
supervision and quality control capacity. The PCU administrative staff was also unprepared to
apply procurement and contracting procedures compatible with Bank regulations, among others.
This weakness was so evident even after two years from project startup that a new INPARQUES
administration decided to "outsource" procurement and contracting services altogether.
Unfortunately this change did not help to overcome the shortfalls the project was facing and after
another change in the PCU management, the PCU reassumed this responsibility but with an
increased capacity, effectiveness and transparency. The fire prevention and control subcomponent
was contracted as a "package" and carried out with apparent greater efficiency and effectiveness.

In conclusion, investments in park infrastructure have improved the implementation of
conservation management activities (including installation of park ranger posts at park entrances,
boundaries demarcation and patrolling, training of personnel and implementation of environmental
education and community outreach programs) but failed to reach the SAR expected levels. The
dissolution of SADA-AMAZONAS and PROFAUNA as implementing entities of the
infrastructure component in the protected areas of the Amazon region and the wildlife refugees of
Cuare and Tortuga Arrau, made it impossible to carry out valuable infrastructure investments in
these parks and wildlife refugees. Part of the funds allocated for the protected areas within the
State of Amazonas were cancelled or transferred to the Emergency Recovery program in the
State of Vargas.

Component B: Environmental Research. This component is rated Unsatisfactory. Performance
under this component was affected by the complexity of the task of setting up an array of research
activities to be carried out by a variety of different entities and in accord to Bank procurement
procedures. Although the research activities were reasonably defined, the investigative effort
lacked a logical framework or strategic approach within which to prioritize and focus the research
activities. Moreover, the criteria for participating in the applied research effort were ineffective
when applied at all. Only during the last portion of project implementation was a research trust
fund set up to manage different activities, according to the capacities of the participating entities
and in line with Bank procedures. The results of this effort were studies on social, cultural and



                                                - 10 -

environmental factors in conservation management and valuable baseline studies for specific
protected areas and resource sectors. However, neither their relevance nor their applicability was
prioritized. Additionally, factors such as participation by park staff and the community in the
research project and the validation of results, determination of priorities in terms of park
management, logistics of research in the remote areas (thus high operational costs), were
considered only marginally in the implementation of the research component.

Component C: Environmental Education. This component is rated Unsatisfactory. Environmental
education comprises a set of different activities designed according to the group targeted and the
results expected. It usually involves a considerable amount of ingenuity, creativity and dedication
as it involves aptitude change, cultural change and the corresponding adaptation. The success of
this component was based on the assumed effectiveness of a community outreach program based
on conventional communication and training techniques and INPARQUES' prior experience in
this area. However, by the time the project started in 1996, institutional capacity in environmental
education, corresponding facilities and staff and to a certain extent, institutional credibility
vis-à-vis the communities had diminished considerably. Implementation of this component was
affected by the lack of clear focus and strategic programming which decreased the effectiveness
and efficiency of the environmental education effort.           Another important element of this
component was to provide support to INPARQUES decentralization process, through training
and technical assistance during staff relocation. However, this activity was dependent on the
approval of a decentralized structure for INPARQUES which was proposed but never approved
and implemented.      At the end, a considerable effort in workshops, outreach activities and
improved means of communication used most of the resources available for this component
during the first four years of project implementation.


 Component D: Institutional Development. This component is rated Marginally Satisfactory.
 Institutional Development represents a pivotal component of the project and in general terms, it
 was executed almost entirely in terms of expenditures. However, the impact of the investments
 corresponding to this component in terms of a modern institutional structure especially with
 regard to decentralization, de-concentration and community participation remains a goal to be
 pursued much more extensively. Equipment and staff training have advanced considerably but
 significant infrastructure and personnel training needs remain unmet. Technical assistance
 provided under this component has been instrumental in helping INPARQUES to overcome
 difficult times during political changes and lack of leadership, maintaining a degree of continuity
 of action and stability in direction, especially in regard to the functioning of the PCU. To a great
 extent, technical assistance under this component has helped strengthen the operational capacity
 of INPARQUES President's Office and key departments in the organization. Significant
 activities carried out include: the system­wide Geographic Information System, bidding,
 contracting, disbursement, accounting, auditing and personnel management procedures, cost
 recovery options for national parks and protected areas, among others.

Components added as results of the 2000 project amendment:

Component E Emergency works in selected national parks This component is rated Satisfactory.
INPARQUES spent the resources and carried out the work to fix roads affected by the floods,


                                                 - 11 -

rehabilitate bridges, stabilize slopes and remove debris in the affected Parks.

Component F Water supply systems This component is rated Satisfactory. This component was
carried out by HIDROVEN and was used to pay for activities to undertake emergency repairs in
the water and sanitation sectors in the most affected areas of the states of Vargas and Miranda.
The allocated resources were disbursed and the work performed.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
INPARQUES is the institution responsible for the conservation of natural resources in national
parks and the management of urban recreational parks in Venezuela. Its experience, accumulated
over many years of activity, was good. Nevertheless there was a need for streamlining,
decentralizing and strengthening various administrative, financial and technical functions and
procedures, and this was supported by the project.

As described in Section 4.2, Component D: Institutional Development was considered central for
the success of the project and was aimed at strengthening INPARQUES and creating a modern
institutional structure especially with regard to decentralization, de-concentration and stronger
community participation. The implementation of this component was marginally satisfactory and
has to a great extent supported INPARQUES through turbulent times. Overall, this component
has been critical for INPARQUES continuity and has prepared the basis for INPARQUES future
sustainability.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Since project approval in 1995 Venezuela's political and social environment went through
significant changes and upheaval. This complicated situation delayed the implementation of many
public policies including those related to the execution of the INPARQUES project.

Starting in April 1999 severe rain fall led to massive flooding in the coastal states of Venezuela,
achieving maximum strength in December 1999. The highest impact was felt in the State of
Vargas and in the northeast of Caracas, although damage was also sustained by several other
States. According to government numbers, over 120,000 people were affected by the floods with
some estimates putting the death toll at 15,000 people.

On December 2002 the strike of the oil industry resulted in a serious disruption of the public
finances, leading to a serious shortage of counterpart resources which affected the pace of the
project and the balance between loan and local resources.



                                                     - 12 -

In addition, Bank's supervision team performance (and the staff turnover on the Bank side),
which is a factor outside the control of the government or the implementing agency, has affected
overall project performance, as explained in detail under Section 7 below.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The reorganization of the Federal Government in general, and of the MARN in particular, has
meant constant changes in the direction of environmental institutions such as MARN and
INPARQUES. These changes also produced personnel turnover that negatively affected project
execution and severely delayed implementation schedule. Turnover in leadership and
administrative staff also translated -- and at times with severe consequences, into inadequate
planning of allocation of counterpart resources which in turn delayed project implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

INPARQUES' centralized organizational structure proved too rigid when changes demanded
flexibility and continuity in direction. The decision making process of INPARQUES was
centralized and specific operational tasks delegated to "technical advisors" which at times proved
efficient but did not guarantee continuity and leadership. Partnerships with NGOs were not fully
utilized, hence their potential to contribute to the project activities was not realized.      Staff
involvement, a key element in institutional strengthening was limited to consultation, training and
educational events. In addition, a high turnover rate in senior management and technical staff at
INPARQUES seriously affected project implementation. Only during the third phase of the
project, increased ownership and action from the PCU improved overall project implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:

At appraisal, the cost for the project was estimated at US$96 million, while the actual cost at
closing was US$81.4 million. The difference is due to a US$8.6 million cancellation and a US$6
million undisbursed balance at the end of June 2004. Of the total costs of the project, US$55
million was the projected Bank loan portion, with government counterpart funding of US$40.9
million. The Government was to finance all incremental operating costs, except those related to
the Project Coordination Unit.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Rationale for sustainability rating:Likely

The Bolivarian Government of Venezuela has shown an interest in continuing the institutional
strengthening effort initiated with the INPARQUES project. It is in fact preparing a follow up
operation with the Bank within a broader multisectorial perspective which will include an
INPARQUES component.

Some of the difficulties mentioned throughout this report, depend to a large extent on institutional
stability (at INPARQUES and MARN) and economic growth translated in terms of resource



                                                    - 13 -

allocation to conservation and environmental management activities. Presently, here are reasons
to be optimistic with the sustainability of the project. INPARQUES leadership appears to be
settling for an extended and calmer period ahead and the economic growth (spurred by historically
high oil prices) appears to translate into allocation of resources for institutional strengthening and
environmental management. In addition, INPARQUES budget allocation for 2005 has included
the settlement of the huge labor debt accrued over many years and still includes a modest portion
for "infrastructure and institutional development." It is obvious that to guarantee sustainability
an additional externally funded effort is not enough, but present leadership at INPARQUES has
indicated that it intends to continue along the lines marked by the INPARQUES project. It also
recognizes the negative effect of constant personnel changes and it is dedicated to decentralization
of decision making with a greater role of INPARQUES regional offices in decision making.

Additionally, after years of slow preparation, INPARQUES has approved a GEF-funded
operation in the Canaima National Park which will design and implement an innovative approach
to conservation management involving the indigenous communities in park management. If
successful, this management model will be extrapolated to other protected areas where indigenous
people or traditional communities share an interest in the conservation and sustainable use of the
protected area. If the Canaima-GEF (Expanding Partnerships for the National Park System)
project is any indication, it appears that INPARQUES is definitively interested in continuing its
institutional strengthening effort and in improving its conservation management capacity across
the National Park System in Venezuela.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

There are indications that MARN supports the efforts of INPARQUES to strengthen its capacity
and meet the challenges of its mandate to protect the country's natural and cultural heritage. This
has resulted in the approval of a new INPARQUES budget for 2005 including the settlement of a
long-standing labor debt and additional resources for modest investment in infrastructure and
institutional development.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank overall performance during preparation of this operation is considered Unsatisfactory (U)

At the time of inception, INPARQUES had just played host to the World Congress on National
Parks (1992) and Government support for its mandate was high. This resulted in an optimistic
evaluation of the capacity of INPARQUES, which later proved to be quite weak and caused
major delays in project initiation and implementation. In light of decreasing budget allocations
from the Government the project team should have adjusted project targets and investment
strategy of the loan according to the institutional reality, which at that time started to show
evidence of weaknesses, especially in its operational capacity (engineering and infrastructure
construction departments). The project original implementation assumptions were too ambitious
and the corresponding investment targets were not in line with the country's realities.



                                                  - 14 -

The SAR did not account for the weak management structure of INPARQUES and its lack of
experience in managing the demands (guidelines and procedures) of Bank borrowing. The project
team should have made provisions to foster a better coordination of INPARQUES with the
Finance Ministry and the Planning Ministry who were responsible for counterpart resource
allocation.

7.2 Supervision:

Bank overall performance during supervision is considered Unsatisfactory (U)

The project since the very beginning encountered difficulties in implementation which could have
been corrected, or at least mitigated in part, if critical actions were taken on a timely basis. The
initial learning phase could have benefited from close attention from Bank staff in terms of
procurement procedures, accounting and reporting methods. Accounting errors which slowed
down disbursements could only be corrected after an accounting system, in line with WB
procedures, was installed at INPARQUES in 2000 (four years after effectiveness). Although the
project supervision team did schedule multiple emergency missions during the year 2000 after the
flood disaster of 1999 (which resulted in a revision of the loan allocation and a partial
cancellation), the same concern and intensity of supervision was missing during the critical years
of 1998 and 1999, after the national elections and the revision of the National Constitution, which
brought important political changes and a restructuring of the Government's approach to
development and the environment.

Errors by the PCU and INPARQUES were ignored and corresponding corrective measures not
applied on a timely basis. Conditions for funding and procurement procedures and possible
sanctions when mentioned were not fully enforced. Reporting of supervision progress was not
frequent and thorough enough. At the end (years 2001-2004) INPARQUES and Bank
supervision improved significantly and the teams worked hard and effectively to resolve major
issues. During the last two years of execution procurement procedures and even reporting
routines were assimilated by the executing entity and accepted. But these changes came in too
late to undo what had happened in the past and turn the project around.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

As a result of the performance gaps identified above under sections 7.1 and 7.2, overall Bank
performance is rated Unsatisfactory.

Project design proved too ambitious and did not take into account the political and institutional
reality in which the project would be implemented. After project approval and following the
identification of problems in the first phase of implementation, oversight should have been more
constant and thorough. Seven task managers and five project extensions, without showing
significant results, are signs of an unsatisfactory supervision effort that should have been more
"hands on" in order to identify and correct implementation problems the project was facing.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:




                                                  - 15 -

Borrower overall performance during preparation is considered Unsatisfactory (U)

The preparation of the project was well documented and supported. The list of annexes to the
SAR is extensive and the studies commissioned to support and justify the investment were
exhaustive. However, the preparation phase was centralized at the top of the organizational
structure with limited consultation with field offices and field-based personnel. Decision making
was centered with the Presidency of INPARQUES and high-level technical advisors. Although
institutional roles and responsibilities were clearly outlined in the SAR, internalization of these
responsibilities at start up during implementation was weak. Institutional coordination and
cooperation agreements were written but not enforced. Appropriation of project responsibilities
within INPARQUES as well as with partners outside the organization was not accompanied by
training, communication and monitoring.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government overall performance during implementation is considered Unsatisfactory (U).

Changes in government, the Constitutional revision as well as the political and labor conflicts that
followed were to a large extent responsible for the continuous changes in leadership at
INPARQUES and in MARN. Corrective and/or mitigating actions could have been taken, but
were not or could not be taken at the proper time with the corresponding impact on
implementation performance. The supervisory role of MARN over the implementation of the
project and the performance of INPARQUES should have been stronger. As political stability
and economic recovery have a positive impact on the country, a more constructive political and
institutional context could emerge within which it will be easier to prepare and implement future
Bank operations in the natural resources and conservation sector

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Implementing agency's performance is considered Unsatisfactory (U).

Although institutional weaknesses and difficulties in implementation became evident early during
project implementation, INPARQUES showed significant improvements in performance towards
the end of the project (2001-2004). Institutional strengthening, park management infrastructure
and community participation remain goals to be pursued by future INPARQUES administrations.
Too many changes in INPARQUES affected leadership and continuity in institutional direction
and management approach. Erosion of salaries and compensation for field assignments also
negatively affected performance. But most importantly, limited awareness of the importance of
external funding for conservation management resulted in little or no attention to performance and
impact indicators (i.e., baseline data was never collected and implementation indicators were not
recorded systematically). Finally, concentration of decision making at the top of the
organizational structure not only made project implementation and performance more vulnerable
to changes in leadership, but also alienated competent professional staff to make valuable
contributions to project implementation and performance, while shielding project activities from
constant changes and turmoil.



                                                 - 16 -

An example of INPARQUES' institutional weakness is that the final project audit has not been
finalized yet due to the delays in contracting the audit company. The results of this final audit is
expected to be received during the first quarter of 2005.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

As a result of the performance gaps identified above under sections 7.4, 7.5, 7.6, overall borrower
performance is rated Unsatisfactory (U).

Although in terms of expenditures and investments in infrastructure the project might have
reached the disbursement targets, in terms of impact and outcomes the project was unsatisfactory.
The desired and expected changes in organizational structure, decentralization and
de-concentration of decision making within INPARQUES were not attained and the overall
institutional strengthening effort was only marginally satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


l        Continuity of leadership and permanence of key staff is critical.
         Experiences elsewhere have shown that decentralizing decision making power (especially
         involving field staff) and empowering technical and managerial staff at levels of the
         organization which are less vulnerable to changes in leadership and changes in the political
         context inside and outside the organization, provide a measure of organizational stability
         and managerial continuity.

·        Adequate and timely supervision is essential.
         During implementation of complex projects involving investments in infrastructure as well
         as human resource development, institutional development and supervision is crucial. In
         the case of INPARQUES, the supervisory role of MARN as well as of the Bank should
         have been more evident. MARN could have assisted in eliminating bottlenecks in resource
         planning and disbursements and also brought its experience with multilateral lending
         operations through training and technical assistance. MARN had also a clear responsibility
         in maintaining leadership continuity and ensuring compliance on the part of INPARQUES
         of loan conditions. The Bank, when faced with clear incompliance on the part of the
         implementing agency, should have applied more strictly its leverage and sanction
         accordingly.

·        Institutional capacity depends largely upon the economic and political context and varies
accordingly.
         Institutional weaknesses are exacerbated by political turmoil and economic crisis. The
         devaluation and loss of purchasing power brought about by the economic crisis eroded
         institutional capacity by means of loss of professional staff leaving the institution for
         economic reasons.      Even though an institution such as INPARQUES is generally
         characterized by staff with a higher than usual degree of commitment and mysticism
         ("work in parks and for nature conservation" is still valued beyond the job itself), erosion



                                                - 17 -

       of salaries and lack of non-monetary incentives contribute to weaken the institution's
       capacity to carry out its mandate. Investments in human resources development (training,
       communications) in such conditions are also negatively affected as participation is less
       motivated and receptive. Although it is difficult to predict the course of an economic
       crisis or the impact of political change, these factors should be considered as obvious risks
       in terms of institutional strengthening and complementary non-monetary reward
       mechanisms (ex: promotions), performance incentives (ex: internships, scholarships) and
       recognition schemes (ex: rotations) should be incorporated to the organizational structure.

·      Commitment to project objectives and therefore performance depends upon the active
participation of all levels of the                     organization.
       INPARQUES like similar organization is quite centralized with power and
       decision-making concentrated at the top.          Different attempts at reorganization have
       resulted in reshuffling and renaming of upper management layers or creating "regional"
       offices without real concessions in terms of de-concentrating decision making.           The
       strength of INPARQUES (defined by its mandate) lies in field staff and field operational
       capacity. It follows that decision-making to a large extent should also be delegated to
       field staff and field offices. Regional offices should not be limited to "coordination" but
       also to timely decision-making on management and operational matters.

·      Implementation depends upon effective coordination between the executing agency, the
Planning Ministry in charge of resource        allocation and the Finance Ministry in charge of
actual disbursements.
       Project induction and initial training activities should include representatives from agencies
       such the Planning and Finance Ministries. Whenever possible, a unit specifically set up to
       deal with the project financial, accounting and auditing requirements should be set up
       within these entities. Such a unit supported by the project, should assume responsibility
       over resource planning and allocations as well as disbursements.

·      When multiple agencies are involved in project execution clear understanding of their
respective roles must be written into binding          agreements.
       When specific activities within the project design are assigned to entities outside the
       control of the executing agencies (NGO, other government entities) a condition prior
       should be to underwrite a contract or a letter of understanding stating clearly mutual
       responsibilities, results expected and performance (including indicators and sanctions for
       non compliance). The implementation strategy should also clearly indicate resource flow
       according to results and performance.

In addition to the above detailed project-specific lessons, following are the general lessons drawn
from the Venezuela INPARQUES Project experience that could be useful for preparation and
implementation of upcoming projects:

Project Preparation:

·      Design: Project design should be in line with country priorities and needs, but also should



                                                - 18 -

take into account the policy environment and institutional context. Project objectives and
components should be simple and focused. A complex and ambitious project design, that is based
on the needs of the country but is detached from the political, economic, policy realities and
implementation capacity, could be detrimental to project success.

·       Risk Assessment and Management: A comprehensive, rigorous and realistic assessment of
risks, in terms of country capacity, institutional effectiveness, fiduciary aspects, economic and
financial viability, as well as other exogenous factors should be completed, and mitigating
strategies and action plans to address them as/if they occur, should be incorporated to the project
design and monitored during project implementation. Despite significant risks documented during
several supervision missions the project was kept open and extended 5 times. Project extensions
should only be granted based on realistic action plans with adequate provision to deal with the
risks identified during project preparation and execution.

·       Fiduciary Aspects: Project preparation team should properly assess the procurement and
financial management capacity of the implementing agency, as well as its readiness for
implementation. The team should put in place mechanisms to strengthen weak areas and make
sure that the World Bank Procurement, Financial Management, Disbursement guidelines and
procedures are fully understood by the Borrower. Project implementation could be delayed
significantly if the project implementation unit staff is not equipped with knowledge and skills
required to access, use, and control loan funds.

·       Focus on Results: A good monitoring and evaluation system, with focus on results and
outcomes, should be integral part of the project design. Baseline data for implementation and
impact indicators, that will enable meaningful comparisons and refocusing of project activities as
needed during implementation, should be collected at the preparation stage.

Project Implementation:

·       Staff Turnover: Staff turnover, at the Bank and INPARQUES, was a major problem for
this project. Bank management should ensure continuity in supervision teams to avoid
interruptions or delays in implementation. Similarly, the task team (and management, as needed)
should be in continuous communication/coordination with the Borrower to ensure that managerial
and technical appointments at the project implementation unit are based on qualifications (and are
free of political considerations) and continuity of staffing is maintained throughout implementation
to maintain institutional knowledge and memory and continue capacity building.

·       Bank Supervision: Bank supervision of the project should be continuous, supported by
proper budgets and skill mix. Supervision missions should be properly planned and executed and
interaction with the counterparts should continue outside the formal missions to be able to
provide timely and appropriate support as needed. Follow up of missions should be made through
appropriate channels and at appropriate levels, raising potential issues and seeking guidance from
the management. Candor in supervision reporting (including implementation performance,
progress towards achievement of objectives, overall risks and other performance indicators) is key
for successful project implementation. Management and staff should remain involved and be



                                                 - 19 -

proactive in spotting and addressing problems.

·       Fiduciary Specialists: Fiduciary Specialists should be an integral part of the project team
(as opposed to one-off involvement as needed) to provide required technical support to the
project unit, pinpoint any potential issues and act on them before they become major problems.
This will ensure continuity of implementation and avoid any risks to the Bank's reputation.

·       Focus on Results: Focus on results rather than inputs and activities would maximize
project benefits. Continuous monitoring and assessment of achievements against desired
outcomes would provide the proper direction for the project (in terms of scaling up/down,
restructuring) when changes occur in the environment within which the project is operating.

·       Beneficiaries and Stakeholders: The project's team should work with the counterparts to
ensure that the beneficiaries and stakeholders at large remain involved at the project execution
stage, so that the project will not lose its priority and visibility. With stakeholder support,
implementation could remain on track and achievements could be sustained, even at times of
political/economic turmoil.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1. Etapas en la implementación.
Es importante tener claro en primer lugar, que el proyecto se desarrolla en el marco de dos
gobiernos de ideologías muy diferentes y de dos Constituciones del país, aspectos que tuvieron
grandes implicaciones en el transcurso de la ejecución. En segundo lugar, se considera que para
tener una percepción más objetiva de lo que ha sucedido con el proyecto a lo largo de sus casi
ocho años de ejecución, es conveniente hacer una caracterización resumida de las tres etapas por
las cuales se estima que éste ha pasado. En la primera etapa se inicia el proyecto y termina con
un cambio de gobierno que introdujo una serie de modificaciones importantes en el marco
ideológico, jurídico e institucional del país; en ella hay un proceso lento de ejecución pues además
de ser un lapso de aprendizaje, por la inexperiencia de la institución en el manejo de recursos
multilaterales, y por la magnitud del proyecto que rebasaba la capacidad institucional, durante la
primera mitad del período del proyecto no fue posible iniciar la construcción de obras ya que fue
necesario primero preparar los diseños arquitectónicos y de ingeniería y de resolver problemas
relacionados con la tenencia de la tierra. La segunda etapa fue marcada por la tragedia de
Vargas que afectó en forma importante el proyecto al reorientarse una parte de sus recursos hacia
otros fines relacionados con la emergencia, y porque afectó también la programación a partir de
ese momento; además en esta etapa adicionalmente hubo una cancelación parcial del monto del
préstamo; fue una etapa en donde se originaron serios problemas en la administración del
proyecto, estuvo caracterizada por un ambiente organizacional enrarecido y conflictivo, de
desorden organizacional y administrativo, y de ausencia de planificación y control para guiar y
evaluar la acción de la institución. La tercera etapa se inició con un cambio en la presidencia de
INPARQUES, en la Coordinación de la UCP y prácticamente en todo el equipo de ésta unidad
que en el momento que empezó esta etapa estaba prácticamente desmantelado; en esta etapa se
debió focalizar la acción del proyecto en pocos parques a raíz de la disminución de los recursos
del proyecto, la extremada restricción en los aportes de recursos locales y ante la inminencia de la



                                                   - 20 -

fecha de cierre prevista para éste; es una etapa caracterizada por esfuerzos en materia de
desarrollo organizacional de INPARQUES, y de la profundización de las acciones del proyecto
en el marco de algunos postulados de la Constitución de 1999, como son entre otros la
sustentabilidad y la mayor participación de las comunidades en los procesos que las afectan, así
como en el marco del Plan Nacional de Desarrollo.


2. Los resultados del proyecto.
Los resultados del proyecto se van a analizar desde el punto de vista cuantitativo y cualitativo.
2.1 Resultados cuantitativos del proyecto.
Con base en los indicadores de implementación para los componentes del proyecto, los cuales
fueron calculados por la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto para los períodos 1996-2000 y
2001-2003, se trató de hacer una evaluación cuantitativa del porcentaje de ejecución de cada
componente y para todo el proyecto, para lo cual se recurrió a los indicadores físicos expresados.
Sin embargo, la evaluación resultante se consideró que no era conveniente incorporarla en este
documento pues los resultados se prestaban a confusión por las siguientes razones:
a) El hecho de que no se aplicaron pesos para distinguir entre actividades en lo relativo a la
   magnitud de éstas, llevaba a que estaba igualmente considerada una actividad sencilla de
   capacitación poco costosa y que se realizaba en pocas horas o días, que la construcción de
   una edificación cuya construcción era costosa y duraba muchos meses. Es decir que los
   porcentajes de ejecución promedio se calculaban sin distinguir entre actividades de mucha y
   poca magnitud.
b) Por otro lado, tampoco se podían incluir en esa evaluación16 actividades ejecutadas en el
   período 2001-2003 para las cuales no se especificó antes de iniciar la ejecución, las metas
   previstas.
c) Aún cuando para los componentes "B. Investigación" y "C. Educación Ambiental", los
   indicadores de implementación pudieran dar una idea de que hubo un muy bajo cumplimento
   en la ejecución de ambos, con respecto al componente "D. Fortalecimiento Institucional",
   dada la gran cantidad de cursos de adiestramiento que se dieron que sobrepasaron las metas
   en forma muy importante, hacían ver que este componente D fue cumplido en exceso (267%
   para el período 1996-2003), cuando la realidad no es así. Este excesivo sobrecumplimento en
   este indicador, llevaba a que si se consideraba la ejecución promedio del proyecto para todos
   los componentes, ésta estaba por encima del 100%, lo cual no era congruente con los
   resultados reales del proyecto. Un aspecto similar aunque en menor magnitud se observó en
   los cálculos del componente "A. Administración y Protección de Parques".

2.2 Resultados cualitativos del proyecto.
Son diversos los resultados cualitativos positivos que ha traído el proyecto tanto para
INPARQUES como para el país, ellos son:
·  Ha generado una importante experiencia institucional en la ejecución de proyectos con
   financiamiento multilateral, los cuales tienen mucha mayor exigencia que la ejecución de
   proyectos que utilicen únicamente recursos locales.
·  Permitió insertar a INPARQUES a través del Plan Sexenal 2002-2007, dentro del Plan
   Nacional de Desarrollo del país
·  Ha permitido que INPARQUES, en el marco de los objetivos planteados para la



                                              - 21 -

   modernización de la administración pública por el Gobierno Nacional a través del Ministerio
   de Planificación y Desarrollo, elabore una propuesta de modernización institucional, y que en
   el marco de dicha propuesta avanzara en actividades concretas de modernización y
   fortalecimiento institucional, al definir en forma más clara su misión, rol, organización,
   normas, procedimientos, políticas y estrategias enmarcadas en la nueva constitución. Es decir,
   que el proyecto deja una institución mucho más organizada con unas ideas claras de cómo
   seguir adelante.
·  Fortaleció a INPARQUES en el área de prevención y combate de incendios de vegetación,
   búsqueda, rescate y salvamento.
·  Le permitió a la institución contar con una relevante infraestructura física para vigilancia y
   control, de equipamiento y de radiocomunicaciones, y se ha avanzado en forma muy
   importante en materia de tecnología de la información, todo lo cual fortaleció su capacidad de
   gestión futura.
·  Permitió profundizar en las estrategias y metodologías para la consecución de mayores
   ingresos propios. Como parte de este esfuerzo, se definió un esquema de tarifas basado en la
   Unidad Tributaria, que permiten regular la relación contractual con los concesionarios.
·  Posibilitó desarrollar unas experiencias y metodologías de trabajo que incorporan la
   participación de los diversos actores relacionados con su gestión, que le permiten convertirlos
   en aliados para la conservación y manejo de los parques, tanto nacionales como de recreación.
·  Los estudios e investigaciones realizados en los parques nacionales, han generado para el país,
   un mayor conocimiento tanto de sus ecosistemas naturales como del contexto sociocultural en
   que ellos se desenvuelven.
·  Ha generado una importante relación a través de alianzas con instituciones y empresas del
   sector privado para apoyar financieramente la gestión de INPARQUES.
·  Permitió hacer un esfuerzo importante de información y divulgación orientado a educar a la
   comunidad sobre la importancia que tienen los parques para el país, y sobre el rol de
   INPARQUES.
·  Permitió que la capacidad de gestión desarrollada con el proyecto, y de relación con el Banco
   Mundial y con otras instituciones públicas y de la sociedad civil, le diera acceso para que el
   Fondo Mundial para el Medio Ambiente (GEF), le aprobara unos importantes recursos no
   reembolsables, para desarrollar un proyecto en un Parque Nacional estratégico para el país,
   como lo es Canaima.

2.3 Logro de los objetivos del proyecto.
Los Indicadores de Impacto de base para el año 95 que fueron previstos en el diseño del proyecto
y que debían ser determinados a través de un estudio a realizar al inicio de la implementación, no
lo fueron. Por lo tanto, no se le hizo seguimiento a las mediciones periódicas que estaban
previstas. Por ello, se puede decir en forma general que no existen datos de referencia que
permitan evaluar objetivamente el cumplimiento de los objetivos del proyecto. Sin embargo,
aparte del nivel alcanzado en el cumplimiento de dichos objetivos cuestión que se analizará más
adelante, es importante destacar, que diversas misiones de supervisión de los Gerentes de
Proyecto del Banco Mundial que visitaron el proyecto desde sus inicios, destacaban en las Ayuda
Memorias respectivas, que el proyecto avanzaba en dirección correcta de acuerdo a los objetivos
de desarrollo propuestos, por lo que se puede decir, que no ha habido un problema de
direccionalidad con respecto a los objetivos, sino que habría más bien un problema de magnitud



                                               - 22 -

en su cumplimiento.
Puede decirse también, con los mismos conceptos manejados más arriba en la evaluación de los
resultados, que hubo un cierto nivel de cumplimiento del Objetivo A. El fortalecimiento de la
administración de parques nacionales y urbanos, monumentos naturales y refugios de reserva
silvestre, y del Objetivo B. La intensificación de los esfuerzos de investigación, adiestramiento y
formación ambiental pública, que permiten hacer una evaluación cuantitativa gruesa de ambos.
Con respecto al Objetivo A, se pudiera decir sin temor a dudas que es menor al 30%,
considerando que ya en la Ayuda Memoria de la Misión de diciembre del 2000, se establecía que
de los 20 parques nacionales considerados inicialmente la ejecución se había concentrado en solo
9 y para algunos componentes solo en 7 (variando su nivel de consolidación entre 30 y 50%),
situación que se agudizó en los años siguientes, ya que ante la escasez de recursos y la cercanía
que se preveía con las sucesivas propuestas de fechas de cierre del proyecto, la acción en los
parques se concentró en aún un menor número (tres parques nacionales y uno de recreación),
buscando su consolidación. Por otro lado, hay que destacar, lo cual es muy difícil de medir, que
prácticamente no se avanzó en el proceso de descentralización (desconcentración) de la
institución, lo cual era un elemento clave en el diseño del proyecto.
Con respecto al Objetivo B, se considera, que si es explicado con base en la evaluación de los
datos de cumplimiento porcentual de los Indicadores de Implementación de los Componentes B
(de investigación ambiental) y C (de educación ambiental), su nivel de cumplimiento es menor del
25%. Sin embargo, hay que destacar que existe un aspecto relacionado con la educación
ambiental que no estaba previsto originalmente para medir el impacto del proyecto, que no es fácil
cuantificar, y que fue puesto en práctica en la tercera etapa de implementación, que tiene que ver
con el impacto que pudo tener en la comunidad el uso de los medios de comunicación masivos
como la televisión, con mensajes orientados a crear una conciencia hacia los parques y la gestión
de INPARQUES.
Con respecto al Objetivo C. El mejoramiento de la sustentabilidad económica de los parques
nacionales y otras áreas protegidas, sí es posible hacer unas evaluaciones cuantitativas más
precisas. La información analizada permite evaluar cuantitativamente el cumplimiento de este
objetivo, en al menos una de las tres formas (que se considera que es la más importante) de medir
su impacto, de acuerdo a lo previsto en el SAR del proyecto original para cuantificar el indicador
denominado "recursos propios", la cual era el porcentaje de recursos propios con respecto al
ingreso total anual de la institución.
De la revisión de la información sobre ingresos, se pueden extraer las siguientes conclusiones, que
confirman un bajo cumplimiento del Objetivo C del Proyecto:
·   Los ingresos propios para el año 2003 apenas eran el 17% de lo previsto para ese año, es
    decir que se incrementaron a niveles muy por debajo de los previstos en el diseño del proyecto
    (sin embargo, como elemento de referencia hay que tomar en cuenta que los niveles de
    ingresos propios fijados en el diseño del proyecto eran irreales).
·   Esta situación ha afectado en forma importante la operatividad de la institución.
·   Hasta el año 2001 hubo una tendencia creciente de los ingresos, pero a partir de ese año, la
    crítica situación económica y financiera que ha afectado a personas e instituciones del país, se
    reflejó en la disminución de los ingresos propios.
·   Otro aspecto que ha afectado y que en el futuro afectará la generación de ingresos propios, es
    que en dos de los parques más relevantes, Los Roques y Canaima, los ingresos no le son
    asignados totalmente a INPARQUES, pues en el primero, a raíz de la creación de la



                                                - 23 -

    Autoridad de Área de Los Roques a partir del año1996, los ingresos totales son asignados a
    dicha institución; y en el segundo, el 80% de los ingresos son asignados a los grupos indígenas
    que allí habitan, lo cual se puso en vigencia a partir del año 2000.
·   El proceso inflacionario ha afectado también negativamente la consecución de ingresos
    propios, pues mientras éste se refleja rápidamente en el incremento de los costos de
    funcionamiento de la institución, las tarifas que cobra INPARQUES por sus servicios se
    mantienen muy rezagadas con respecto a la inflación, debido a la política del gobierno
    nacional de minimizar el traslado de los costos crecientes a la población, por considera que
    algunos de los servicios que INPARQUES presta son un beneficio social.

3. Resumen de los factores que han afectado el desempeño del proyecto.
A continuación, con base en el análisis de la información que ha sido sistematizada sobre el
proyecto (Ayudas Memorias de las misiones, documentos diversos de INPARQUES y del Banco
Mundial, entrevistas con diversos actores etc.), se precisaron y describieron en forma resumida los
factores que han afectado la ejecución de este proyecto. Es importante destacar, que la mayoría
de los factores que fueron detectados, son prácticamente los mismos que definieron un estudio
recientemente realizado por un consultor Banco Mundial, Análisis de los factores recurrentes que
han afectado el desempeño de algunos proyectos del Banco Mundial en Venezuela (período
1990-2002). Elaborado por el consultor Miguel Nucete H., Junio 2003. a solicitud del
Representante del Banco Mundial en Venezuela, que recogió los factores que quedaron
plasmados en seis Informes Finales de Ejecución (IFE), que habían sido terminados
recientemente, y que recogían la experiencia de proyectos muy diversos que fueron ejecutados en
el lapso 1990 - 2002, por lo que son representativos de varios períodos de gobierno.
A continuación se presentan los factores que fueron detectados en este proyecto.

3.1 Factores fuera del control del Gobierno y del Banco Mundial.
Existe un factor fuera del control de la institución ejecutora, del Gobierno y del Banco, que se
refiere a la emergencia sufrida en diciembre de 1999 en Vargas y otros estados, que afectó
fuertemente al proyecto a partir del año 2000, sobre todo en ese año.

3.2 Factores sujetos al control del Banco Mundial.
Los factores que más influyeron fueron:
·   El proyecto fue muy ambicioso en sus metas y por lo tanto, en el monto previsto para
    ejecutar. Se considera que en el diseño se le dio poca atención a la capacidad institucional
    existente para ejecutar un proyecto de la complejidad y magnitud del propuesto. Por otro
    lado, los niveles de autofinanciamiento que preveía fueron demasiados optimistas.
·   La supervisión se considera que fue insuficiente durante la mayor parte de la implementación,
    pues no se monitorearon periódicamente los Indicadores de Implementación que el proyecto
    previó, y en la mayor parte de las Ayudas Memorias revisadas sólo se enfatizaba en la
    magnitud de los desembolsos realizados y no había ninguna referencia a los impactos de esos
    desembolsos, que debían ser medidos a través de esos indicadores de implementación y por
    los Indicadores de Impacto.
·   Por otro lado, el Banco nunca logró que se elaboraran los Indicadores de Impacto de base que
    el proyecto preveía debían tenerse durante el año de inicio; pasaron los años, y éstos
    indicadores no se tuvieron, por lo que al terminar el proyecto no hay referencias objetivas para



                                                - 24 -

   medir el impacto del proyecto, al menos en dos de los tres objetivos que el proyecto
   planteaba.
·  El Banco tampoco exigió a INPARQUES (con la excepción de la primera etapa) la
   presentación de otro instrumento de seguimiento como era la entrega de informes de progreso
   trimestrales, que era un requerimiento del convenio entre dicha institución y el Banco;
·  A los convenios con PROFAUNA y SADAAMAZONAS, aparentemente el Banco no le hizo
   seguimiento mientras dichas instituciones existían, de acuerdo a lo previsto en el Convenio de
   Proyecto con INPARQUES, por lo que prácticamente no se ve reflejado en las Ayuda
   Memorias de las misiones.
·  Otra situación que ocurrió en el proceso de supervisión, es que uno de los gerentes de
   proyectos del Banco permitió un manejo administrativo y financiero inadecuado por parte de
   la Dirección de INPARQUES que violentaba algunas normas del Banco. Este problema fue
   detectado por INPARQUES que le informó al Banco, que tomó medidas al respecto.
·  Se considera que hubo problemas con la continuidad de los gerentes de proyectos del Banco
   Mundial, pues durante la vida del proyecto éste tuvo cinco.

3.3 Factores sujetos al control del Gobierno (ente ejecutor y otras instancias de gobierno).
Los factores que más influyeron fueron:
·  El cambio de Gobierno que ocurrió en febrero de 1999, pues se pasó de un gobierno con una
   ideología a otro con una ideología completamente diferente, que cuestionaba lo realizado en
   los diversos períodos constitucionales anteriores, situación que por primera vez ocurría en el
   período democrático que comenzó en 1958;
·  Otro muy relevante fue la extremada inestabilidad política, económica y financiera que ha
   tenido el país en los últimos años también inédita en Venezuela.
·  Hubo cambios frecuentes de ministros del MARN, del Presidente de INPARQUES y de
   Coordinador de la UCP. Durante la ejecución del proyecto hubo seis ministros del MARN y
   seis presidentes de INPARQUES. También hubo cinco coordinadores de la UCP; se considera
   que este fue el factor que más afectó la implementación del proyecto. Para un nuevo
   Coordinador de UCP y sus más cercanos colaboradores, la experiencia señala que la curva de
   aprendizaje toma su tiempo, lo que se convierte en un atraso importante más en un contexto
   en el que también cambió el presidente de la institución.
·  Los objetivos del proyecto fueron demasiados ambiciosos. Personal de INPARQUES también
   participó activamente en el diseño del proyecto, que fue sobredimensionado con respecto a la
   capacidad real de gestión de dicha institución y la de generación de recursos propios.
·  Hubo un cambio de paradigma a partir de la promulgación de la Constitución de 1999,
   relacionado con la mayor participación de los usuarios en los procesos que los afectan, entre
   ellos hay que destacar el rol que ésta le asigna a los indígenas que en su mayoría se encuentran
   en zonas de parques o monumentos naturales; ello obligó a cambios profundos en la gestión
   de la institución
·  Los bajos niveles de sueldos que desde hace unos años tiene la administración pública, que
   cada vez se han ido deteriorando más, se convierten en una limitante fundamental para
   conseguir y mantener personal idóneo, sobre todo en los niveles directivos y profesionales de
   INPARQUES.
·  INPARQUES no pudo desarrollar una adecuada capacidad para implementar un proyecto de
   la magnitud del planteado; inicialmente, hubo un importante retraso en el inicio de la



                                                - 25 -

   implementación, pues la UCP no tuvo la capacidad mínima para iniciar la ejecución, debido a
   la lentitud de INPARQUES en el proceso de contratación de personal (incluso la Presidencia
   de la institución que asumió en ese momento tenía dudas sobre la necesidad y conveniencia de
   crear la UCP Información proporcionada en entrevista con el Coordinador de la UCP de la
   primera etapa.). Además, no contaba con el apoyo logístico mínimo requerido;
   posteriormente, esa capacidad tampoco pudo ser desarrollada de acuerdo a las necesidades del
   proyecto, lo que llevó a reorientaciones de recursos de éste hacia otros proyectos u objetivos,
   por un monto de US$16,8 millones para atender la emergencia de Vargas, y posteriormente a
   una cancelación de US$8,0 millones.
·  Durante un corto lapso, se realizó un manejo administrativo irregular, que involucró tanto a la
   presidencia de la institución como a la coordinación de la UCP, violentando las normas
   establecidas por el Banco para el proyecto en el convenio de préstamo.
·  Por otro lado, aún cuando en la tercera etapa se avanzó en el proceso de modernización de la
   institución, INPARQUES avanzó muy poco en el proceso de descentralización
   (¿desconcentración?) institucional que preveía el diseño original, y que se consideraba que era
   clave para hacer más eficiente el       funcionamiento institucional y por lo tanto, para la
   prestación de un mejor servicio.
·  Al inicio de la implementación, hubo carencia de diseños de las obras previstas, lo que
   ocasionó, conjuntamente con problemas de tenencia en los sitios escogidos, un importante
   retraso, que se estima en más de dos años, para iniciar la construcción de las obras civiles.
·  INPARQUES no le dio la debida importancia al componente de Investigación ambiental por
   lo que durante varios años no se organizó ni hizo las alianzas institucionales adecuadas, lo que
   llevó que al final éste tuviera un desempeño bastante limitado.
·  INPARQUES no le dio la importancia adecuada a la elaboración de los Indicadores de
   Implementación exigidos por el Convenio de Préstamo, sino prácticamente hacia el final de la
   ejecución. Tampoco nunca elaboró los Indicadores de Impacto de base requeridos, ni
   implementó en forma anual la evaluación externa que estaba prevista en el convenio con el
   Banco.
·  En diversos momentos a lo largo de la ejecución, hubo inexistencia o insuficiencia de
   aprobación presupuestaria, y lentitud en la tramitación de desembolsos del Banco Mundial a
   través de la Cuenta Especial, y de recursos locales. Por otro lado, hay que destacar que la
   situación durante el lapso 2001 al 2003 fue crítica por la escasa e inoportuna asignación de
   recursos locales.

4. Sistematización de las experiencias. Lecciones aprendidas.
A continuación se enumeran las lecciones aprendidas de este proyecto:
·  Los cambios introducidos por la Constitución de 1999, y de diversas leyes, así como los
   compromisos internacionales contraídos por el país en las Cumbres de Río y de
   Johannesburgo, y los cambios de paradigmas que han ocurrido al nivel internacional
   analizados en el Congreso Mundial de Parques de Durban en el año 2003, basados en el
   desarrollo sustentable, obligan a revisar el marco legal de la institución, para desempeñar el
   nuevo rol que el país requiere.
·  El Banco debe plantearse en nuestro país, dada la recurrente problemática que afecta el
   funcionamiento de las instituciones ejecutoras del Estado, proyectos que no sean demasiado
   ambiciosos, por lo que debería de tratar de mantenerlos lo más simple posibles. En este



                                              - 26 -

  contexto, sería muy importante que el equipo que diseñe un nuevo proyecto, cuente con un
  experto en materia institucional, que evalúe a fondo la capacidad de la institución ejecutora, y
  considere los riesgos que existen con los cambios en los diferentes niveles de dirección
  relacionados con el proyecto.
· En situaciones donde se está diseñando un proyecto para una institución sin experiencia en el
  manejo de las normas del Banco, o en donde se exijan importantes cambios organizacionales,
  debería incluirse en el diseño del proyecto, o ser un requisito previo a la efectividad, o al
  menos un requisito que se debería de cumplir con un máximo de seis meses después de que
  ésta se dio, bajo pena de suspender los desembolsos, la presentación de la propuesta de la
  nueva organización, la cual debería ser aprobada por el Banco.
· Igualmente, debería ser un requisito previo a la efectividad, la organización de la UCP que lo
  coordinará, con la logística básica requerida para funcionar, y un personal que tenga al menos
  un entrenamiento básico en la normativa del Banco. La experiencia indica, que un proyecto
  que arranca de cero es poco probable que pueda cumplir con las metas y plazos previstos en el
  estudio de factibilidad.
· En caso de que se inicie un proyecto que requiera la construcción de obras de ingeniería, el
  Banco durante el proceso de formulación debería solicitar y verificar la información sobre la
  existencia de los proyectos y de la situación de la propiedad de las tierras en donde se van a
  construir, considerando que ambas son una fuente muy importante de retraso en la
  implementación. Una vez cuente con dicha información, deberá considerarla en los plazos
  programados para iniciar la construcción de las primeras obras.
· Se considera fundamental, que tanto los gerentes de proyectos del Banco como los
  coordinadores de las UCP que vayan asumiendo dichas responsabilidades una vez que el
  proyecto se inició, que analicen con detenimiento tanto el estudio que dio origen al préstamo,
  como el Convenio de Préstamo y cualquier otro documento que lo sustente, así como lo
  tratado en las Ayuda Memorias, con el objeto de tener la "memoria institucional" básica del
  proyecto, pues diera la impresión que en algunos casos no se maneja con propiedad esta
  información fundamental. El Banco debería proveer asistencia técnica para que el equipo de
  proyecto del país pueda adueñarse del proyecto lo antes posible. Los talleres de inicio del
  proyecto deberían prestar mucha más atención a las explicaciones necesarias para que los
  miembros del equipo de proyecto entiendan la "lógica básica" que fundamenta el proyecto.
  Unas simulaciones de reconstrucción del marco lógico se considera que resultaría productivo.
· El Banco debe hacer un esfuerzo mayor por compartir "las buenas prácticas" que ha
  acumulado a través de los años en diversos países del mundo. La gestión fundamentada en
  datos e información oportuna es valorada por cualquiera que pretenda ser un buen gerente.
· No se debe tratar de implantar avances tecnológicos, sin evaluar la capacidad institucional de
  asimilarlos;
· No se debe tratar de implantar una tecnología (ejemplo en informática), que el proveedor no
  pueda demostrar que funciona en algún otro lugar que pueda ser verificado.
· En caso de que se requiera montar un sistema (ejemplo, sistema administrativo), se debe de
  mantener en paralelo el sistema antiguo hasta que el nuevo esté funcionando adecuadamente.
· Aún cuando se está consciente que el Banco no es coejecutor del proyecto, y que el
  responsable es el gobierno, se considera que fue demasiado permisivo en diversos momentos
  de la implementación con las exigencias que el convenio de préstamo o el convenio de
  proyecto hacían a INPARQUES, relacionadas con la presentación por parte de ésta, de los



                                             - 27 -

  informes trimestrales, los Indicadores de Implementación y los Indicadores de Impacto de
  base, además del informe de la instancia de evaluación independiente; se considera asimismo
  que el Banco debió haber sido más exigente al respecto, considerando que ello afectaba
  negativamente la marcha del proyecto.
· Un aspecto sobre el cual es necesario reflexionar, se refiere al uso indiscriminado de
  consultores o la contratación de personal de planta de INPARQUES a través de recursos del
  proyecto, ya que la excesiva utilización de consultores o de personal contratado, generó
  diversas situaciones que afectaron al proyecto, llegándose a decir que ello más que fortalecer
  institucionalmente a INPARQUES lo debilitó. En primer lugar, el diseño preveía la necesidad
  de contratar diverso tipo de personal de planta que INPARQUES debía ir pasando
  progresivamente a su nómina, lo cual debido a la deficiencia crónica de recursos de la
  institución prácticamente no se hizo. En segundo lugar, la debilidad técnica de la institución
  para servir de contraparte y asimilar los estudios e investigaciones contratadas, y la falta de
  continuidad de muchos de los técnicos, hicieron que dichos muchos de ellos, algunos de muy
  buena calidad, tuvieran poco o ningún impacto en el proceso de toma de decisiones de la
  institución. Aquí cabrían dos recomendaciones, en primer lugar que a menos de que sea
  sostenible en el tiempo con recursos locales, no se debería de contratar personal de planta con
  recursos del proyecto; en segundo lugar, es que es necesario sacar el mayor provecho posible
  de dichos estudios de buena calidad para la formulación de INPARQUES II, por lo que sería
  entonces necesario revisarlos y decidir cuales estudios serían útiles.
· Es preocupante la situación de los sueldos y salarios que tiene la institución que limitan la
  posibilidad de que el personal idóneo que ella tiene se mantenga, y de que se pueda captar
  personal de calificación, tanto a nivel gerencial como profesional y técnico. Es fundamental
  afrontarlo, pues sin un personal idóneo y motivado, INPARQUES no podrá cumplir la
  importante misión que tiene; por ello será necesaria mucha creatividad para tratar de afrontar
  con éxito este problema.
· INPARQUES debe reposicionarse ante la opinión pública, fundamentalmente con los
  dirigentes políticos y de la sociedad civil, para que sin olvidar otros de los importantes
  servicios que la institución presta, mediante la utilización de estrategias de comunicación
  adecuadas enfatice en un aspecto crucial como es que en los parques nacionales se origina el
  agua que abastece a más del 60% de la población nacional, y casi el 30% del agua utilizada
  por todas las obras hidroeléctricas del país. Hay otros aspectos que se consideran conveniente
  destacar y dejarlos como lecciones aprendidas, pues pueden ser de utilidad para la supervisión
  de la implementación de proyectos futuros y en especial del proyecto INPARQUES II, los
  cuales fueron propuestos en el estudio arriba mencionado:
  5. "El Banco deberá prestar un especial cuidado a la supervisión del proyecto,
      considerando que lo más probable es que exista una alta rotación del personal directivo
      y técnico de la UEP. Al respecto, se considera que el Banco debería en primer lugar
      analizar las implicaciones de adoptar una posición firme con respecto a la sustitución de
      personal, con el objeto de que si finalmente éste va a ser sustituido, el sustituto tenga un
      perfil mínimo adecuado que el Banco debería aprobar, y en caso de que no se cumpla,
      que exista la posibilidad de suspender los desembolsos para ese proyecto. Un mecanismo
      para garantizar un mínimo de continuidad pudiera ser la utilización de contratos para el
      personal con un período mínimo de contratación de dos años. En segundo lugar, el
      Banco, ante cambios en el personal, deberá estar pendiente de apoyar al nuevo en



                                              - 28 -

   materia de capacitación y asesoramiento técnico, con el objeto de garantizar la
   continuidad de las operaciones del Proyecto. Se considera fundamental que el Banco
   fortalezca la capacidad técnica de la sede en Caracas En conversaciones sostenidas por
   el consultor con Coordinadores de las UEP, algunos sienten la necesidad de contar con
   un mayor apoyo técnico, ya que las misiones (usualmente dos al año), no son suficientes
   para resolver la gran cantidad de situaciones que se presentan en la implementación de
   un proyecto, más si éste es complejo. Sugieren la necesidad de fortalecer la capacidad
   técnica de la sede de la Misión Residente como hace años estaba, con el objeto de recibir
   el apoyo de ésta para resolver directamente las situaciones que se presenten o que ésta
   las tramite rápidamente a Washington, lo cual se les hace mucho más viable, para
   apoyar a los Gerentes de Proyectos en la supervisión.
6. Es necesario que el Banco promueva un programa permanente de construcción de las
   capacidades de implementación de sus proyectos, orientado a personal del MPyD, del
   Ministerio de Finanzas, de las Unidades Ejecutoras y de las Oficinas de presupuesto de
   los Ministerios de Adscripción y otros entes ejecutores. Al respecto, es importante
   destacar que existen recursos pertenecientes al país que suman unos 14,8 millones de
   US$, en el Interest Subsidy Fund, parte de los cuales pudieran ser utilizados en este
   programa de capacitación tal y como ha sido propuesto al Ministro de Planificación y
   Desarrollo.
7. El Banco deberá hacer todo el esfuerzo para que los Gerentes de Proyecto tengan la
   mayor permanencia posible, y en caso de un cambio inevitable, debería tratar de que
   exista la mayor continuidad posible, para lo cual se debería prever al menos una visita
   conjunta del Gerente de Proyecto entrante y del saliente, para que el primero se
   familiarice con situaciones, personas o experiencias que no es fácil transmitir en un
   informe que el primero pueda leer.
8. El Banco debería exigir que para cada año estén disponibles los recursos de
   contraparte; en caso contrario suspendería los desembolsos del proyecto que no los
   tenga."




                                         - 29 -

- 30 -

- 31 -

- 32 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable

10. Additional Information




                                             - 33 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/Impact Indicators
NOTE: The SAR recommended that the baseline and the targets for the impact indicators be
determined through a specialized consultancy during the first few months of the project
implementation. The consultancy was never contracted and targets to measure impact were not
defined specifically. Monitoring of impacts by objectives was not possible.

Project Objectives Indicators                Measures                                        Targe Perfor-
                                                                                             t     mance
(A) Strengthen                               ·    Number of violations fined as % of
Conservation and   Effectiveness of Control  estimated number of violations
Protection of                                ·    Number of guard posts per 1000 km of
Vulnerable Areas                             perimeter
                   Fires                     Area burnt per park per Million US$ installed
                                             fire control capacity
                  Encroachment              Number of new squatters and new area
                                            encroached (urban and rural) per park and guard
                                            post
                  Garbage/Solid Waste       Garbage collection effort (person/days) per 1000
                                            visitors
                  Biodiversity              Number of new indicator species that became
                                            endangered
                  Landscape                 Area of park under recovery programs as a
                                            proportion of total area to be recovered
                  Carbon Stocks             Estimated biomass per park
                  Water Quality            ·      Water contamination by pollutants
                                           ·      Peak run-offs as percentage of total flow
                                            and rain fall
                  Erosion                  ·      Volume of soil discharged per annum
                                            relative to amount of rainfall
                                           ·      Sedimentation volume in dams downstream
                                            relative to rainfall
                  Recreation               ·      Number of visitors
                                           ·      Expenditures per visitor
                                           ·      INPARQUES revenue per visitor
                  Participation             Percentage of NGO, villages, communities,
                                            municipalities and local entities represented in
                                            participatory workshops
                  Decentralization         ·      Number of regional Offices remaining to be
                                            established
                                           ·      Number of Agreements with Municipalities
                                            and State governments
                  Staffing                  Park rangers and Technical staff per 1000 km2
(B) Intensify                                Number of reports filed in INPARQUES
Public             Publications              relative to total reports
Environmental
Research,
Training and
Education Efforts



                                                   - 34 -

                    Research funds, volume    ·   Volume of external research funding
                    and diversity of research ·   Number of researchers and institutions
                                              involved
                    Impact of Research       ·    Number of internal/external
                                             regulations/directives changed based on research
                                             results
                    Environmental            ·    Performance of target sample group as per
                    Awareness                hypothesis
                                             ·    Number of people reached
                                             ·    Number of press reports on areas managed
                                             by INPARQUES
(C) Improve the                               ·   Own resources generated relative to
Economic            Own resources             targets by source
Sustainability of                             ·   Percentage of own revenues in total
National Parks                                receipts
and other                                     ·   Own resources per park
protected areas



        Output Indicators (1996-2003)
                                                                                   Performed    Difference
  Component /Target                                        Units        Results   (preliminary estimated vs.

                                                                       Expected      results    performed
                                                                                  1996-12/2003
                                                                                        )
A.      Strengthening of Parks
      Management and Protection
            (National Parks)
                 Administration
                 Superintendent Building                  number          10           19           +9
                 Administrative Offices                   number          22            7          -15
                 Cumulative Administrative Staff          number          64           91          +27
                 Protection
                 Guard posts                              number          136          26          -110
                 Observation Towers                       number           6            6           0
                 Access Controls                          number          16           41          +25
                 Transport (aggregated)                   number          205          215         +10
                 Cumulative Park guard staff              number          141          41          -100
                 Interpretation/Education
                 Visitor's Centers                        number          10           16           +6
                 Information Centers                      number          24            3          -21
                 Recreation
                 Recreation Areas                         number          37            2          -35
             (Fire Prevention and Control)
                 Infrastructure
                 Principal Base Camps                     number           9            1           -8
                 Auxiliary Base Camps                     number          13            3          -10
                 Observation Towers                       number          20            1          -19


                                                    - 35 -

                   Incremental Vehicles          number     75    13     -62
                   Cumulative Personnel       person/day   5760   140   -5620
                   Equipment (aggregated)        number     9      9      0
      (Wildlife Refuges)
          Administration
          Administrative Offices                 number     1      0     -1
          Protection
          Guard posts                            number     5      1     -4
          Access Controls                        number     1      1     0
          Transport (aggregated)                 number     9      0     -9
          Park Guards                            number     8      0     -8
          Interpretation/Education
          Information Centers                    number     2      0     -2
          Improved Management
          Coordination Meetings                  number     20     0    -20
          Integrated Management Plans            number     10     0    -10
      (Recreational Parks)
          Basic Services
          Water Treatment                       hectares   150     1    -149
          Electrical Systems                    hectares    94     1     -93
          Irrigation                            hectares   165    30    -135
          Cultural Attractions
          Amphitheater                           number     3      0     -3
          Children's Games                       number     3      0     -3
          Green Area Development                hectares    4      6     +2
          Lagoon Restoration                     number     5      0     -4
          Animal Exhibit Restoration             number     12     0     -12
          Interpretation/Education
          Education Centers                      number     7      0     -7
          Interpretive Programs                  hectares  123    147    +24
B. Environmental Research
          Establishment of Research Stations     number     5      1     -4
          Rapid Ecological Assessments           number     10    11     +1
          Thematic Maps                          Parks      8      8      0
          Water Quality Studies                  number     5      0     -5
          Park Management Applied                number     25    22     -3
          Research (North Orinoco)
          Park Management Applied                number     11    n/a    n/a
          Research (Amazon Park)
          Wildlife Refuges Applied Research      number     11     1     -10
          and Monitoring
C. Environmental Education
          Community Workshops                              196     7    -189
          Training of Volunteers and             number    160    15    -145



                                           - 36 -

             Workshops with NGO on Park
             Protection
             Training of Educators and               number     203   253    +50
             Volunteers to work with Park users
             Education Activities with Children,     number    3400   395   -3005
             Students, Teachers, and other
             visitors to National Parks
D. Institutional Development
             Building/Remodeling of Regional         Square    2570   1802   -768
             Offices and Training Facilities         Meters
             Training Courses on:
                      Management &                   number    48      32    -16
                      Administration
                      Internal Control               number     16     1     -15
                      Planning and Budgeting         number     24     4     -20
                      Contracting of Civil Works     number     15     0     -15
                      National Park Management       number     100    24    -76
                      Urban Park Management          number     34     2     -32
                      Environmental Education        number     11     3      -8
                      Fire Control Park              number     10     1      -9
                      Management Applied
                      Research
                      Environmental Impact           number     11     0      0
                      Assessment
                      Computer Training            staff/days  910     57    -853
             Technical Assistance on:
                      Administration & Financial   man/years   44,5    90   +45,5
                      Management
                      Project & Park               man/years    2,9    79   +76,1
                      Management
                      Research & Training          man/years   10,4   4,1    -6,3
                      Community Participation      man/years   48,5   10,2  -38,3
                      Financial Sustainability:
                      Service Charges and          man/years    2,9    37   +34,1
                      Tariffs
                      Mobilization of Resources:
                      Grant Financial Assistance   man/years    2,0   4,0    +2,0
                      Short-Term Consultancies     man/years    6,0   22,0  +16,0




                                               - 37 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component and Emergency Allocations
                                 Appraisal        Revised      Latest Estimate  Percentage of
          Component               Estimate        estimate       US$ Million     Appraisal
                                US$ Million  (December 2000)   (December 2003)   (Dec. 2000)
A.      Park Management
·       National Parks              57.2
·       Recreational Parks          14.9
·       Wildlife Refuges            1.5
 Subtotal Park Management           73.6            57.8            27.2            47.0
B.      Environmental Research      7.9             7.85             5.3            67.5
C.      Environmental Education     3.6             3.55             2.8            78.8
D.      Institutional               10.8             9.9            13.3           134.3
Strengthening
 Total Baseline Costs               95.9            71.1            48.6            68.3
         Emergency Park                              6.8             2.3            33.8
        Infrastructure
         (INPARQUES)
          Emergency Water                           10.0            10.0           100.0
        Structures
          (HIDROVEN)
 Cancellation                                        8.0             8.0           100.0
 Total Project Cost                 95.9            95.9            68.9            71.4



Project Financing by Component (at appraisal)
                                Bolivarian              World              Total
                                Government     %         Bank     %                     %
                                of Venezuela
Park management
       National Parks               27.4       47.8       29.8   52.2       57.2       59.6
       Recreational Parks           6.9        46.5       8.0    53.5       14.9       15.6
       Wildlife Refuges             0.8        52.9       0.7    47.1        1.5       1.6
 Subtotal Park Management           35.1       47.7       38.6   52.3       73.6       76.8
A.      Environmental Research      0.4        5.0        7.5    95.0        7.9       8.2
B.      Environmental Education     0.4        9.9        3.2    90.1        3.6       3.8
C.      Institutional               5.2        48.0       5.6    52.0       10.8       11.3
Strengthening
 Total Disbursement                 41.1       42.8       54.9   57.2       95.9      100.0




                                             - 38 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The establishment of protected areas has inherent benefits by itself. Several of these areas contain
critical watersheds of major rivers and storage reservoirs which are significant for power,
agricultural and water supply and carry an important recreational value if managed in a sustainable
manner.

The full value of the benefits of this project is hard to calculate, mainly because the national parks
have already been in place and therefore only the benefits of incremental conservation can be
counted in a strict net value calculation. However, there is evidence, to suggest that the project,
although marginal has contributed to the management and protection of national parks and thus it
can be stated that the cost of these efforts are in line with the benefits accrued.

Despite its small size Venezuela contains a vast array of net-tropical ecosystems and is thus
considered to be among the world's 10 most important sites of biological diversity, which by its
own nature is not quantifiable. Hence the protection of this global asset is of paramount
importance for the global environment and would carry important unquantifiable benefits, such as
carbon sequestration and sustainable use of biodiversity resources.

From a local perspective, the establishment of protected areas can be quantified through the
calculation of the estimated present value of the benefits of the protected areas under
INPARQUES under a discount rate of 10 percent, could range from a over US$185 million to
US$312 million.      The contribution to these benefits consisted in its capacity to finance
investments and to build capacity that allowed INPARQUES to support the protection of
Venezuela's national parks. In addition other benefits, although difficult to quantify are also
worth mentioning, such as the increase in tourism and other marketable products.




                                                  - 39 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year    Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/18/1994                  3    ECONOMIST (3)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              2/11/1995                   4    ENV. SPECIALIST (2),
                                               ECONOMIST (2)

 Supervision
              07/04/1995 (I)              3    ENV. SPECIALIST (1);             S              HS
                                               ECONOMIST (2)
              07/29/1995 (proc.)          4    ECONOMIST (1),                   S              HS
                                               PROCUREMENT
                                               CONSULTANT (1),
                                               DISBURSEMENT
                                               CONSULTANT (1),
                                               PROTECTED AREA
                                               SPECIALIST (1)
              10/14/1995 (II)             1    ECONOMIST (1)                    S              HS
              10/26/1996 (III)            2    ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST           S               S
                                               (1); ECONOMIST (1)
              7/19/1997 (IV)              1    SR. ENV. SPECIALIST (1)          S               S
              3/20/1998 (V)               1    SR. ENV. SPECIALIST (1)          S               S
              09/26/1998 (VI -            3    SR. ENV. SPECIALIST (1),         S               S
              MTR)                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1),
                                               ENV. EDUCATION
                                               SPECIALIST (1)
              03/25/1999 (VII)            2    SR. ENV. SPECIALIST (1);         S               S
                                               ENV. SPECIALIST (1)
              09/26/1999 (VIII)           6    ENV. SPECIALIST (1);             S               S
                                               PROGRAM COORDINATOR
                                               (1), POLLUTION MGMT.
                                               SPECIALIST (1), ECONOMIST
                                               (1), CONSULTANT (1), CIVIL
                                               SOC. SPECIALIST (1)
              02/04/2000                 13    SECTOR MANAGER (3);              S               S
              (EMERGENCY)                      TEAM LEADER (1);
                                               CONSULTANTS (3); LEAD
                                               SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                                               DIRECTOR (1); ENV.
                                               SPECIALIST (1); SR. URBAN
                                               SPECIALIST (1); SR. SOCIAL
                                               DEV. (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                               OFFICER (1);
              04/12/2000                  6    SECTOR MANAGER (2);              S               S
              (EMERGENCY)                      CONSULTANT (2); LEAD
                                               WATER AND SANITATION
                                               SPECIALIST (2);



                                                - 40 -

               05/04/2000 (IX)           3    TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                              FORESTRY EXPERT/FAO (1);
                                              CONSULTANT (1)
               12/12/2000 (X)            2    TASK MANAGER (1); ENV.            U    S
                                              SPECIALIST (1)
               03/23/2001                1    FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)          U    S
               (FINANCIAL)
               03/30/2001                1    PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST            U    S
               (PROCUREMENT                   (1)
               )
               08/08/2001 (XI)           3    ENV. SPECIALIST (1), CIVIL        S    S
                                              SOCIETY SPECIALIST (1),
                                              FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
               05/23/2002                1    FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)          S    S
               (FINANCIAL)
               11/29/2002                1    TEAM LEADER (1)                   S    S
               04/25/2003 (XII)          5    ENV. SPECIALIST (2), CIVIL        S    S
                                              SOCIETY SPECIALIST (1),
                                              SOCIAL SPECIALIST (1),
                                              PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                              (1)
               06/19/2003                1    TEAM LEADER (1)                   S    S
               12/05/2003                2    TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                              INSTITUTIONAL
                                              DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                                              (1)
               04/22/2004                1    TEAM LEADER (1)                   S    S
               06/24/2004                1    TEAM LEADER (1)                   U    U

 ICR
               N/A



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                   No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                3.3                           6.8
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   36.3                         132.8
  Supervision                            187.0                         625.2
  ICR                                       5.1                          24.9
  Total                                  231.7                         789.7




                                              - 41 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 43 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Bank preparation documents

Venezuela - Interim Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), Report No. 16471 of April 8, 1997 and Report
No. 25125 of November 18, 2002. The World Bank

Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), Report No. 13974 of May 12, 1995. The World Bank.

Memorandum and Recommendation of the President, Report No.P6566 of May 12, 1995. The World
Bank.

Identification Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, Back-to-Office-Report. The World Bank.

Preparation Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World Bank.

Pre-appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World Bank.

Agreed Minutes of Negotiation. The World Bank.

Suplemental Agreed Minutes of Negotiations. The World Bank.

Bank project implementation documents

Loan Agreement dated October 12,1995. Between the Republic of Venezuela (the Borrower) and
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank.) The World Bank.

Amendments to the Loan Agreement including Memoranda to the Country Director. The World Bank

Statement of Mission Objectives, Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, Management Letters and
Project Status Reports of all the Supervision Missions. The World Bank.

Borrower project implementation documents

Informes de Avance.Project Implementation Unit.




                                                  - 44 -

- 45 -

