Page  1
June 14,2000
His Excellency 
Dr. José Alejandro Rojas 
Minister of Finance 
Avenida Urdaneta Edificio Ramia
Piso 9 Caracas 
República Bolivariana de Venezuela
Dr. Eddy Cordova 
Presidente 
Instituto Nacional de Parques Distribuidor de Santa Cecilia 
Edificio Sur Museo de Transporte 
Caracas 1071 
República Bolivariana de Venezuela
Re:
Loan No. 3902\1eVE (Inparques Project)
Amendment to the Loan and Project Agreements
Dear Sirs:
1.
We refer to the Loan Agreement between the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela (the 
Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), 
and the Project Agreement between the Bank and Instituto Nacional de Parques 
(INPARQUES), both dated October 12, 1995, as amended. Whenever used in this letter, 
the terms defined in the Loan Agreement have the same meaning as set forth therein.
2.
We are pleased to inform you that, as requested by the Minister of Planning and 
Development in the letter sent to the Bank on February 29, 2000, the Bank agrees to 
amend the Loan and Project Agreements in order to provide support for the Borrower's 
efforts to repair or rehabilitate facilities damaged by the floods that occurred in 
the northeast coastal area of Venezuela on December 15, 1999.
3.
For this purpose, the Bank hereby agrees that:
(a)
no further activities need to be carried out by the Borrower or INPARQUES 
for the implementation of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project after June 30, 2000;
(b)
in respect of eligible expenditures for the execution of Parts A, B, C 
and D of the Project made before the close of business on June 30, 2000 (i.e. payments 
made or payments due for goods, works and services that have been provided prior to 
the close of business on June 30, 2000), the Bank will honor withdrawal applications 
that are received at the Bank's headquarters prior to the close of business on October 
31, 2000, it being understood that the bank will not honor any withdrawal applications 
with respect to Parts A, B, C and D of the Project received after October 31, 2000;
(c)
the works for water supply systems, described below in the proposed 
amendment to the Loan Agreement, have already been completed; and
(d)
the Loan and Project Agreements be further amended as follows:
Loan Agreement
(i)
In Section 1.02, a new definition is added as paragraph (y) to 
read as 
follows:
"(y) 'HIDROVEN' means Hidrol6gica Venezuela, CA., the Borrower's water 
corporation."
(ii)
Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) above, Section 2.03 is 
modified to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date 
Page  2
as the Bank 
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date."
(iii)
Section 2.08 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 2.08. The following persons are designated for the purposes of 
taking any 
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 
2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions: (a) the 
President of INPARQUES, and any 
person he or she shall designate in writing, with 
respect to any action under Parts A 
through E of the Project; and (b) the 
President of HIDROVEN, and any person he or she shall 
designate in writing, with 
respect to any action under Part F of the Project."
(iv)
Section 3.01 (a) is amended to read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, 
without any limitation or 
restriction upon any of its other obligations under 
this Agreement: (a) the Borrower shall 
cause INPARQUES to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all 
the obligations of INPARQUES therein set 
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, 
facilities and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable INPARQUES to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance; and (b) the Borrower 
represents that HIDROVEN has carried out Part F of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, and 
environmental practices."
(v) 
Section 3.03 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth 
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the 
General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans 
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance 
and land acquisition, 
respectively) shall be carried out by INPARQUES in respect of Parts A 
through E of 
the Project, and by HIDROVEN in respect of Part F of the Project."
(vi)
A new Section 4.02 is added to read as follows:
"Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause HIDROVEN to:
(a)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance 
with sound 
accounting practices its operations, resources and 
expenditures related to Part F of 
the Project;
(b)
have the records and accounts referred to in (a) above audited in 
accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(c)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than June 
30, 2001, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(d)
such other information concerning such records and accounts, as 
well as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably 
request."
(vii)
Schedule I to the Loan Agreement is amended as follows:
(a) 
the table in paragraph 1 is amended as per Attachment I to this 
letter; and
(b) 
paragraph 4 is amended to read as follows:
"4. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of  statements of expenditures under contracts for goods, works and 
consultants' services which 
are not subject to prior review by the Bank pursuant 
Page  3
to the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank may specify by notice to the 
Borrower."
(viii) Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows:
(a) 
the first paragraph is modified to read as follows:
"The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a) 
strengthening the 
management of national and urban parks, natural monuments and 
wildlife refuges and reserves; 
(b) intensifying public environmental research, 
training and education efforts; (c) 
improving the economic sustainability of 
the national parks and other protected areas; and 
(d) restoring access to Selected 
National Parks and rehabilitating water supply systems in 
areas affected by the 
floods which occurred on December 15, 1999."
(b)
New Parts E and F are added to the Project, to read as follows:
"Part E: Emergency Works in Selected National Parks
Carrying out of emergency works in Selected National Parks affected by 
the floods 
which occurred on December 15, 1999, consisting of debris removal, 
road and bridge 
rehabilitation, and slope stabilization.
Part F: Water \1eSupply Systems
Repair and rehabilitation of water supply systems in areas in the States 
of Vargas 
and Miranda affected by the floods which occurred on December 15, 1999."
(ix)
In Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement, a new Section III is added to 
read as in 
Attachment H to this letter.
Project Agreement
In Sections 2.01 (a), 203 (a) and (b) (i), 2.04 (a) and (b), 2.05 (a) and (b), 
2.06 (a) and (b), 2.07, 2.09 (a) and 4.01, the word "Project" is hereby replaced by 
"Parts A through E of the Project".
If you agree with the proposed amendments, please sign and date the three 
counterparts of this letter in the space provided below, and return one fully executed 
counterpart original to us. The amendments set forth in this letter shall enter into 
effect upon receipt by the Bank of said duly executed counterpart original.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Andrés Solimano 
Director 
Country Management Unit Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED: BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
By /s/ Jose Alejandro Rojas Ramires
Authorized Representative
Date:
July 20, 2000
Page  4
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE PARQUES
By /s/ Eddy Cordova
Authorized Representative
Date:
August 17, 2000
Attachment I
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
“Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works (other than
18,000,000
65%
under Categories 5 and 6)
(2)
Goods (other than under
11,500,000
100% of foreign
Categories 5 and 6)
expenditures and
65% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ services
8,200,000
100%
including training and
studies
(4)
Operating expenditures
  500,000
100% until withdrawals
under this category shall
have reached an aggregate
amount of $150,000;
thereafter 75% until
withdrawals under
this category shall
have reached an
aggregate amount
of $300,000; and
thereafter 50%
(5)
Goods and civil works
10,000,000
85%
for Part F of the Project
(6)
Goods and civil works
 6,800,000
85%
for Part E of the Project
(7)
Unallocated
0
TOTAL
 55,00,000”
Attachment II
"Section III. Procurement of Goods and Works under Parts E and F of the Project
Part A:
General
Goods and works under Part E and F of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in 
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
Page  5
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $500,000 and $3,000,000 equivalent 
per contract, respectively, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed\1eprice contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods and works costing less than $300,000 and $1,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, respectively, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured through 
direct contracting, whenever any of the circumstances set forth in paragraph 3.7 of 
the Guidelines shall occur.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for Part E of the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works under Part E of the Project shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to any contract under Part E of the Project, to be procured pursuant to 
Part B of this Section.
3.
Post Review
With respect to any contract not governed by paragraph 2 above, the procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply.
