Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3902 VE
                              Project Agreement
                             (Inparques Project)
                                   between
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                                     and
                        INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE PARQUES
                           Dated October 12, 1995
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3902 VE
                              PROJECT AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated October 12, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE PARQUES (INPARQUES).
       WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Venezuela (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to fifty-five million dollars
($55,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that INPARQUES agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in
this Agreement;
       WHEREAS INPARQUES, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                                 Definitions
       Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE II
                          Execution of the Project
       Section 2.01. (a) INPARQUES declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices
and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
       (b)    As part of, and without limitation or restriction to
the above,  INPARQUES shall enter into the PROFAUNA Agreement
and the SADA-AMAZONAS Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, INPARQUES shall not amend, abrogate, waive or
fail to enforce the Participation Agreements or any part thereof.
       Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the works, goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement.
       Section 2.03. (a) INPARQUES shall carry out, or cause to
be carried out, the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
       (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, INPARQUES shall:
             (i)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable
                   to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later
                   than six (6) months after the Closing Date or
                   such later date as may be agreed for this
                   purpose between the Bank and INPARQUES, a plan
                   for the future operation of the Project;
             (ii)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
                   exchange views with INPARQUES on said plan; and
           (iii)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due
                   diligence and efficiency and in accordance
                   with appropriate practices, taking into
                   account the Bank's comments thereon.
       Section 2.04. (a) INPARQUES shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.
       (b)   INPARQUES shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the performance by INPARQUES of its obligations
under this Agreement.
       Section 2.05. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 2.04 of this Agreement, INPARQUES shall furnish to the
Bank:
       (a)   not later than January 31, April 30, July 31 and
October 31 of each year of Project execution, a quarterly
progress report on the Project, of such scope and detail as the
Bank may reasonably request, including, inter alia: (i) a
Page  3
section detailing progress in implementation of the Project;
and (ii) specific and justified proposals for adjustments in
Project implementation based on the then current results; and
       (b)   not later than March 31 of each year of Project
execution, for its review and approval, a proposed annual
operating plan providing for the activities, implementation
schedule, physical targets and a proposed budget in respect of
the Project during the upcoming year.
       Section 2.06. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 2.04 of this Agreement, INPARQUES shall:
       (a)   Not later than May 31 of each year during the
execution of the Project, starting in 1996, hold annual reviews
jointly with the Bank and the Borrower, such reviews to be
based on the reports referred to in Sections 2.05 and 2.09 of
this Agreement and to focus, inter alia, on the following
items: (i) evaluation of the progress in execution and in the
achievement of the objectives of the Project based on, among
other factors, monitoring indicators acceptable to INPARQUES
and the Bank; (ii) discussion of the proposed annual operating
plan for the upcoming year; and (iii) any changes in Project
implementation that may be necessary.
       (b)   If as a result of any of the above annual reviews,
progress in the execution of the Project or in the achievement
of the objectives of the Project is not satisfactory to the
Bank, INPARQUES shall promptly take or cause to be taken all
such remedial action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be
needed to achieve such objectives or to carry out efficiently
the Project.
       Section 2.07. INPARQUES shall: (a) maintain an appropriate
organizational structure, functions and staff for the efficient
implementation and supervision of the Project; (b) promptly
inform the Bank of any change in its organizational structure
or functions; and (c) without limitation or restriction to
paragraph (a) above, maintain the Project Unit during the
execution of the Project with organizational structure,
functions and staff acceptable to the Bank.
       Section 2.08. INPARQUES shall carry out the Financial Plan
and the Decentralization and Administrative Reform Plan in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
       Section 2.09. INPARQUES shall: (a) on a yearly basis,
request an independent evaluation committee (the Independent
Evaluation Committee) comprised of qualified experts in the
field of park management and related matters, including
representatives of relevant and prominent non-governmental
organizations, to monitor and evaluate, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, the implementation of the
Project; and (b) not later than March 31 of each year, starting
in 1996, submit to the Bank a copy of the report containing the
findings and recommendations of the Independent Evaluation
Committee.
                                 ARTICLE III
                   Management and Operations of INPARQUES
       Section 3.01. INPARQUES shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and with due regard to
environmental and ecological factors, under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
       Section 3.02. INPARQUES shall at all times operate and
maintain its buildings, offices, machinery, equipment and other
property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all
Page  4
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
sound engineering and financial practices.
       Section 3.03. INPARQUES shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other adequate provision,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a) INPARQUES shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including separate records and accounts for the Project.
       (b)   INPARQUES shall:
                 (i)    have the records and accounts referred to
                        in paragraph (a) above and its financial
                        statements (balance sheets, statements of
                        income and expenses and related statements)
                        for each fiscal year
                        audited, in accordance with appropriate
                        auditing principles consistently applied,
                        by independent auditors acceptable to the
                        Bank;
                (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
                        but in any case not later than six months
                        after the end of each such year: (A)
                        certified copies of its financial
                        statements for such year as so audited; and
                        (B) the report of such audit by said
                        auditors of such scope and in such detail
                        as the Bank shall have reasonably
                        requested; and
               (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                        concerning said records, accounts and
                        financial statements as well as the audit
                        thereof, as the Bank shall from time to
                        time reasonably request.
                                  ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination;
                         Cancellation and Suspension
    Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
    Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of INPARQUES thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify INPARQUES thereof.
    Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                          Miscellaneous Provisions
    Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
Page  5
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                   248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.             82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
    For INPARQUES:
          Instituto Nacional de Parques
          Distribuidor de Santa Cecilia
          Edificio Sur Museo del Transporte
          Caracas 1071
          Venezuela
    Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of INPARQUES, or by INPARQUES on
behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken
or executed by the President or such other person or persons as
the President shall designate in writing, and INPARQUES shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
    Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                     Regional Vice President
                                             Latin America and the Caribbean
                        INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE PARQUES
Page  6
                        By /s/ Luis Raul Matos Azocar
                                                   Authorized Representative
