Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3902 VE
                               Loan Agreement
                             (Inparques Project)
                                   between
                            REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated October 12, 1995
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3902 VE
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated October 12, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
VENEZUELA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
    (B)   The Project will be carried out by Instituto Nacional
de Parques (INPARQUES) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
INPARQUES the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement;
    WHEREAS the Borrower hereby represents to the Bank that the
execution of this Agreement has been duly authorized by the
Borrower's Law "Ley que Autoriza al Ejecutivo Nacional para la
Contratacion y Ejecucion de Operaciones de Credito Publico
Durante el Ejercicio Fiscal 1995" published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette, Extraordinary Issue No. 4831 dated December
29, 1994;
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Page  2
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
INPARQUES;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a
member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purposes of any
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if
such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
    (c)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
    under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
    inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3
    of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)   "Annual Operating Plan" means any of the annual
operating plans (planes operativos anuales) referred to in
Section 2.05 (b) of the Project Agreement and which plan has
been approved by the Bank, as such plans may be revised from
time to time by agreement between the Bank and INPARQUES;
    (b)   "Charter" means the Borrower's Ley del Instituto
Nacional de Parques dated July 3, 1978 and published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette extraordinary issue 2290 dated
July 21, 1978 and any other legal norms, including laws,
decrees, resolutions and bylaws, related to INPARQUES and its
operations;
    (c)   "Central Bank" means the Borrower's Banco Central.
    (d)   "Decentralization and Administrative Reform Plan" means
the plan of actions and timetable therefor, satisfactory to the
Bank, to decentralize technical and administrative functions
within INPARQUES, as such plan of action is set forth in the
document entitled "Plan de Descentralizacion y de Reforma
Administrativa de INPARQUES", dated October, 1993 and attached
to the letter from INPARQUES to the Bank dated February 10,
1995;
    (e)   "FAC" means the Borrower's Fuerzas Armadas de
Cooperacion;
    (f)   "FAC Agreement" means the agreement, dated December 10,
1993 entered into between INPARQUES and the Borrower, through
FAC, providing, inter alia, for the arrangements concerning the
Page  3
protection of national parks and natural monuments included
under Part A of the Project;
    (g)   "Financial Plan" means the plan of actions and
timetable therefor, satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure
INPARQUES' financial sustainability, as such plan of action is
attached to the letter from INPARQUES to the Bank dated April
24, 1995;
    (h)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commenc-
ing on January 1 and ending on December 31;
    (i)   "INPARQUES" means the Borrower's Instituto Nacional de
Parques, National Institute of Parks, created by the Borrower's
Ley del Instituto Nacional de Parques, National Institute of
Parks Law, dated July 3, 1978 and published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette extraordinary issue 2290 dated July 21, 1978
as such law is amended from time to time;
    (j)   "Legislation" means the Borrower's Ley Organica del
Ambiente, dated June 7, 1976 and published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette issue 31.004 dated June 16, 1976; Ley Organica
para la Ordenacion del Territorio, dated August 11, 1983 and
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette extraordinary
issue 3238 dated August 11, 1983, and any other laws and
regulations, including leyes, decretos, resoluciones, related
to the Borrower's environmental sector;
    (k)   "MARNR" means the Borrower's Ministerio del Ambiente y
de los Recursos Naturales Renovables, the Ministry of
Environment and Renovables Natural Resources;
    (l)   "Participation Agreements" means collectively the
PROFAUNA Agreement, SADA-AMAZONAS Agreement and the FAC
Agreement; and "Participation Agreement" means any one of the
referred agreements;
    (m)   "PROFAUNA" means MARNR's Servicio Autonomo para la
Proteccion, Restauracion, Fomento y Racional Aprovechamiento de
la Fauna Silvestre y Acuatica del Pais, Autonomous Department
for the Protection, Restoration, Development and Rational
Utilization of the Wild and Aquatic Fauna, created by the
Borrower's Decreto 277, dated June 7, 1989 and published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette extraordinary issue 4106 dated June
9, 1989;
    (n)   "PROFAUNA Agreement" means the agreement satisfactory
to the Bank, to be entered into between INPARQUES and MARNR,
pursuant to paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
providing for the participation and assistance of MARNR,
through PROFAUNA, in the execution of Parts A.3, B.6 and Part
C of the Project;
    (o)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and INPARQUES of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
    (p)   "PCU" means the administrative unit established within
INPARQUES pursuant to the letter from INPARQUES to the bank
dated February 10, 1995, and which unit shall be in charge of
the overall coordination of the execution of the Project;
    (q)   "Regional Offices" means the regional offices (oficinas
regionales) of INPARQUES and "Regional Office" means any one of
the referred offices;
    (r)   "SADA-AMAZONAS" means MARNR's Servicio Autonomo para el
Desarollo Ambiental del Estado de Amazonas, Autonomous
Department for the Environmental Development of the State of
Amazon, created by the Borrower's Decreto No. 272 dated June 7,
1989, and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette
Page  4
extraordinary issue 4106 dated June 9, 1989;
    (s)   "SADA-AMAZONAS Agreement" means the agreement
satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered into between INPARQUES
and MARNR pursuant to paragraph 3 (d) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, providing for the responsibilities of MARNR, through
SADA-AMAZONAS, in the execution of Part B.4 of the Project;
    (t)   "Selected Monuments"  means the monuments agreed
between INPARQUES and the Bank as set forth in the letter from
INPARQUES to the Bank of even date herewith;
    (u)   "Selected National Parks"  means the national parks
agreed between INPARQUES and the Bank as set forth in the
letter from INPARQUES to the Bank of even date herewith;
    (v)   "Selected Urban Recreational Parks"  means the urban
recreational parks agreed between INPARQUES and the Bank as set
forth in the letter from INPARQUES to the Bank of even date
herewith;
    (w)   "Selected Wildlife Refuges"  means the wildlife refuges
agreed between INPARQUES and the Bank as set forth in the
letter from INPARQUES to the Bank of even date herewith;
    (x)   "Special Account"  means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of fifty five million dollars
($55,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of works, goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordnace with the provisions of Schedule 5 of this
Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
Page  5
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable
during such Interest Period.
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                on the date immediately preceding each date
                specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                Agreement is signed.
          (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                interest rates determined otherwise than as
                provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
        (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or
                the second six months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
          principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
          of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
          Quarter."
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.08. The President of INPARQUES is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
Page  6
this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan
Agreement, shall cause INPARQUES to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
INPARQUES therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable INPARQUES to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
    (b)   Without limitation to the provisions in paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to INPARQUES, on a timely basis, as budgetary
allocations.
    (c)   Without limitation or restriction upon paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall, through PROFAUNA, SADA-AMAZONAS and
FAC, assist INPARQUES in the execution of Parts A.3, B.6 and C;
B.4; and A of the Project, respectively.
    (d)   The Borrower shall, through PROFAUNA, SADA-AMAZONAS and
FAC, duly perform all its obligations under the Participation
Agreements. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce
the Participation Agreements or any part thereof.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
    Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall
be carried out by INPARQUES.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with sound accounting practices, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                evidencing such expenditures are retained, until
                at least one year after the Bank has received the
                audit report for the fiscal year in which the
                last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment
                out of the Special Account was made,
        (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to
                examine such records.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) (i) of this Section, including
                those for the Special Account, for each fiscal
                year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                auditing principles consistently applied, by
                independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
Page  7
          (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six months after the end
                of each such year the report of such audit by
                said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                as the Bank shall have reasonably requested,
                including a separate opinion by said auditors as
                to whether the statements of expenditure
                submitted during such fiscal year, together
                withthe procedures and internal controls involved
                in their preparation, can be relied upon to
                support the related withdrawals; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                concerning said records and accounts and
                the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                time to time reasonably request.
                                  ARTICLE V
                            Remedies of the Bank
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   INPARQUES shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
    (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that INPARQUES will
be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
    (c)   The Charter or the Legislation shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the
operations or the financial condition of INPARQUES or the
ability of INPARQUES to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
    (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of INPARQUES or for the suspension of its
operations.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower; and
    (b)   The events specified in paragraph (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by INPARQUES, and is legally
binding upon INPARQUES in accordance with its terms.
    Section 6.02. The date January 10, 1996 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  8
    Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Hacienda
          Direccion General
          Sectorial de Finanzas Publicas
          Edificio Norte, Piso 5
          Centro Simon Bolivar
          Caracas 1010, Venezuela
                                                Telex:
                                                24215 HDACP
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                        Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                        248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.                  82987 (FTCC)
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
                        By /s/ Luis Raul Matos Azocar
                                                   Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                     Regional Vice President
                                             Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated               % of
Page  9
                           (Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works              31,500,000           65%
(2) Goods                    11,500,000           100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures and
                                                  65% of local
                                                  expenditures
(3) Consultants'              8,500,000           100%
    services
    including
    training and
    studies
(4) Operating                   500,000           100% until
    expenditures                                  withdrawals
                                                  under this
                                                  category shall
                                                  have reached an
                                                  aggregate
                                                  amount of
                                                  $150,000;
                                                  thereafter 75%
                                                  until
                                                  withdrawals
                                                  under this
                                                  category shall
                                                  have reached an
                                                  aggregate
                                                  amount of
                                                  $300,000, and
                                                  thereafter 50%.
(5) Unallocated                3,000,000
                              __________
        TOTAL                 55,000,000
                              ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
    (c)   the term "Operating expenditures" means salaries of PCU
staff, office supplies and publications for the PCU and travel
expenditures of the PCU staff in connection with the
supervision of the Project.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000,
may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after January 1, 1993; and (b) payments made for expenditures
in respect of the Project unless such expenditures are included
in an Annual Operating Plan; (c) payments made for expenditures
under Parts A.3, B.6 and C of the Project unless the PROFAUNA
Agreement has been duly executed, and (d) payments made for
expenditures under Part B.4 of the Project unless the SADA-
AMAZONAS Agreement has been duly executed.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
Page  10
made on the basis of statements of expenditures under contracts
not exceeding the equivalent of: (i) $500,000 for works; (ii)
$200,000 for goods; (iii) $100,000 for services of consultant
firms; and (iv) $30,000 for services of individual consultants,
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in:
(a) strengthening the management of national and urban parks,
natural monuments and wildlife refuges and reserves; (b)
intensifying public environmental research, training and
education efforts; and (c) improving the economic
sustainability of the national parks and other protected areas.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Strengthening of Parks Management and Protection
1.  Strengthening of the management and protection of the
Selected National Parks and Selected Monuments through means,
inter alia, of: (a) the construction of basic facilities for:
(i) park administration and protection such as warehouses,
residential facilities, boundary demarcation, inspection and
control posts; (ii) environmental education and interpretation
such as visitors' and interpretation centers, interpretative
trails and signs and observation towers; (iii) tourism and
recreation such as recreation area development, access road
rehabilitation and kiosks; and (iv) regional offices; (b) the
establishment of recreational areas; (c) the acquisition and
utilization of vehicles and field and office equipment; (d)
employment of incremental staff; and (e) an aerial surveillance
and logistic's program in respect of the Selected National
Parks and Selected Monuments in the State of Amazonas.
2.  Strengthening of the management and protection of the
Selected Urban Recreational Parks through means, inter alia,
of: (a) the carrying out of engineering studies and the
development and restoration of basic park infrastructure; (b)
construction and equipping of visitors' and information
centers; (c) the acquisition and utilization of equipment for
the carrying out of education and recreational activities; and
(d) employment of incremental staff.
3.  Strengthening the management and protection of the Selected
Wildlife Refuges through means of, inter alia: (a)
infrastructure investments for administrative, management and
educational activities; (b) the acquisition and utilization of
equipment for administrative, research and field operations;
and (c) employment of incremental staff for management and
educational activities.
4.  Strengthening of the management and protection of the
Selected National Parks through means of, inter alia, the
establishment of about nine principal camps and about eight
auxiliary camps for fire protection, including the acquisition
and utilization of equipment for fire prevention, and control
and rescue operations; acquisition and utilization of vehicles
for fire combat, the construction of administrative offices,
residential quarters, and garage and storage facilities; and
the employment of instructors and fire combat personnel.
Part B:   Environmental Research
    Strengthening environmental research efforts to increase the
availability of natural and social science information for
effective management of national parks, natural monuments and
Page  11
wildlife refuges in Venezuela, through means of, inter alia:
1.  The construction and operation of five stations to support
research activities in the Selected National Parks.
2.   Establishment of a database on current information on
national parks; rapid ecological and social assessments in the
Selected National Parks; and the production of thematic maps
and of geographic data bases for the Selected National Parks.
3.  Studies on: (i) environmental matters in national parks
management such as the impact of tourism and slash and burn
agriculture; (ii) topics related to the livelihood of local
communities residing within or around national parks and their
impact on such parks; (iii) the local and international value
of the environmental services provided by parks and protected
areas; and (iv) policy instruments for capturing the economic
value of protected areas and for generating revenues to finance
parks management.
4.  Studies for the preparation of management plans and on
socio-environmental matters related to the Selected National
Parks and the Selected Monuments in the State of Amazonas.
5.  Monitoring of physical and biological processes including
water quality and other related studies in the Selected
National Parks.
6.  Studies on wildlife population and management programs in
the Selected Wildlife Refuges.
Part C:   Environmental Education
    Expansion and establishment of educational activities in
urban recreational parks, national parks and wildlife refuges
to strengthen INPARQUES' decentralization program, and increase
the involvement of local community groups, non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) and educational associations, through
means, inter alia, of acquisition and utilization of
educational and planning equipment for INPARQUES' central
office; infrastructure investment such as visitors centers, and
information centers; carrying out of training programs; and
employment of incremental staffing.
Part D:   Institutional Development
    Strengthening the institutional capabilities of INPARQUES
through means of, inter alia:
1.  Acquisition and utilization of office equipment and
infrastructure construction to support the decentralization and
administrative reforms of INPARQUES.
2.   Rehabilitation of the Rancho Grande training center to
serve as a training forum for INPARQUES' personnel.
3.  Training activities of INPARQUES' personnel at all grades
and levels in connection with the implementation of the
Decentralization and Administrative Reform Plan.
4.  Technical assistance in connection with INPARQUES'
decentralization process and the establishment of modern and
more efficient management and control systems, environmental
research, public environmental education and promotion of
community participation in park management and carrying out of
studies on: (i) management related areas such as administrative
and financial procedures and cost recovery options for national
and recreational parks; and (ii) other areas related to
protected areas and natural resources as agreed between
INPARQUES and the Bank.
Page  12
5.  Operation of the Project Unit.
                                    * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                            Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                      (expressed in dollars)*
On each April and October 15
    beginning on October 15, 2000
    through October 15, 2009                    2,750,000
    On April 15, 2010                           2,750,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                           Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                    The interest rate (expressed as a
                                    percentage per annum) applicable
                                    to the Loan on the day of
                                    prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                       0.20
    before maturity
More than three years but                       0.40
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                         0.73
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
Page  13
More than 11 years but not                      0.87
    more than 13 years
    before maturity
More than 13 years before                       1.00
    maturity
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.      Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
    Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.  The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
    (a)   Grouping of contracts
    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent
or more each.
    (b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods
    The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  National Competitive Bidding
    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$11,900,000, and civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $1,500,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $43,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and
3.4 of the guidelines.
2.  International or National Shopping
    Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $1,700,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.  Procurement for Small Works
    Works (including repair to existing facilities and
installation of equipment), estimated to cost $250,000
equivalent or less per contract, and not to exceed $5,900,000
in the aggregate, shall be procured under lumpsum, fixed price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from
three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
Page  14
invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable
to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest
price quotation for the required work, and who has the
experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
Part D:      Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
    All procurement for goods, and works under Part C.1 of this
Schedule shall take place on the basis of standard bidding
documents satisfactory to the Bank.
1.  Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.  Prior Review
    With respect to each contract for goods and works procured
under the procedures referred to in Part B.1 of this Schedule;
the first two contracts for goods and civil works procured
under the procedures referred to in Part C.1 of this Schedule
and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more and each contract for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
3.  Post Review
    With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.     Employment of Consultants
1.  Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 [(the Consultant Guidelines)].  For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank
shall be used.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to:  (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $30,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to
prior Bank review shall not apply to:  (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts
for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising
the contract value to $30,000 equivalent or above.
Page  15
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1
through 4 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
    (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been dully opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b) (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the
             Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
             deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as
             the Bank shall specify.
        (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
             Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
             and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
             this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of             which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
             each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of
             the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
             deposit into the Special Account such amount as the
             Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
             shown by said documents and other evidence to have
             been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
             expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Page  16
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c) if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c) The Borrower may, up notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
Page  17
