Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16781
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
HEALTH AND POPULATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(CR. 221 1-TO)
June 25, 1997
Human Development 3
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CtiRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Juine 19, 1997)
Currency Unit                                                                             CFAF
US$                                                                                580.40 CFAF
CFAF i miilion                                                                      US$1,722.95
SDR I                                                                                   US$1.39
UJs$ T                                         =                                        SDR .72
WEIGHTS AND M.IEASURES                                  FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Metric System                                                        January I - December 31
AB3BREVIATIONS AND A(CRONYMS
AfDB            African, Developaient Bank
ATBEF           Togolese Association for Family Welfare
CTCS            Intermiinistcrial Trechnical Committee of Coordination and Monitoring
CTD             Intrasectoral Management and Supervision Coinmittee
ENAM            National School foi Medical Assistants
ENSF            National Mid-wives Sch1ool
El!             Europeai Uion
GTZ             Geseilsci'-alt fur Wirtschaftlincie Zusammenarbeit - Germran agency for technical
cooperation.
HPSAP           Health and Population Sector Adjustment Program
iCR             Impiermentation Completion Report
IDA             Internaiional Development Association
KfW             Kreditanstalt ftu Wiederaufbau, German agencY for financial cooperation
MH              Minisfry of Hlealthi
NGO             Non-governmental Organization
PER             Public Expenditure Review
PFP             Policy Framework Paper
PIP             Public Investment Program
SDR             Special Drawing Rights
SECAL           Sectoral Adjustmeiit Loap
UNFPA           Unitedi NaLiioas Population Fund
UNICEF          United Nations Children's Fund
USAID           United States Agency for International Developmenit
WHO             World llealtti OirLanization
V'ice l resldent                        .lJean-Louis Sarbib
Direr.tr                                 Theodore Ahlers
Technical  lanager:                           Helena Ribe
I eam  L.eader                          Bruna Vitagliano



TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE                                                                                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................................... . i
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ................................ I
I. INTRODUCTION  .............................................. 1
A. Macroeconomic Setting ...........................................................l
B. The Bank's Role in the Country and in the Sector ..........................................................lI
II. PROGRAM  OBJECTIVES .............................................. 1
A. Original Program  Objectives ...........................................................I
B. Expected Outcomes ..........................................................                                                                2
C . The   Risks ...........................................................2
III. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS ................. ................. 3
A. Improving the Strategic Framework and National Policies .........................................................                           4
B. Strengthening General Sector Management .........................................................                                            4
C. Strengthening  Sector Financial Management .........................................................5
D. Improving  Service Delivery .........................................................                                                        7
E. Strengthening Personnel Performance and  Management .........................................................                               8
IV. FACTORS AFFECTING PERFORMANCE .............................................  8
A. Difficult Political Environment and Unfavorable Economic Situation .................................................8
B. Ministerial Instability and Weak Management Capacity at the Ministry of Health ...............................9
C. The Role of Program  Monitoring  Institutions .........................................................................9
D. Community  Participation ........................................................................ 10
V. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE ................................................ 10
A. Bank Performance ........................................................................                                                  10
B. Borrower Performance ........................................................................ I I
VI. PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY AND IMPLICATIONS FOR FUTURE
OPERATIONS  .......................................................... 11
VII. KEY  LESSONS LEARNED .......................................................... 12
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES  ..........                                                 ................................................ 14
Table  1: Summary of Assessments .......................................................................... 15
Table 2: Related Bank Credits ........................................................................ 16
Table 3: Program  Timetable ........................................................................                                          17
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ........................................................... 17
Table 5: Policy Matrix of Anticipated Actions: Planned and Actual ....................................................... 18
Table 6: Studies Included  in the Program ........................................................................ 21
Table 7: (A) Program  Costs and (B) Financing ........................................................................ 21
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants ........................................................................ 22
Table 9: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs ........................................................................ 24
Table  10: Bank Resources: Missions ........................................................................ 25
APPENDIXES:
A. Completion Mission Aide-memoire
B. Summary of Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
C. Matrix of Health Program Targets
D. Health and Population Sector Expenditures, 1990-1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
HEALTH AND POPULATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(CR. 2211-TO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Health and Population
Sector Adjustment Program (HPSAP). A Credit to support the Program in the amount of
US$14.2 million equivalent (SDR 10.2 million) was approved on January 23, 1991 and made
effective on March 31, 1992.
The Credit was closed on June 30 1996, after a one-year extension from the original
closing date (June 30, 1995). The first tranche of SDR 2.85 (US$4.0 million equivalent) was
released upon effectiveness; subsequent tranches (two of SDR2.85 million and one of SDR
1.47 million) were released on May 25, 1994, October 4, 1995, and June 5, 1996.
The ICR was prepared by Fily D'Almeida (RMTO) and Bruna Vitagliano (AFTH3),
with assistance from Ross Pfile, Johanne Angers, and A. Edward Elmendorf. It was reviewed
by Helena Ribe (Technical Manager, AFTH3), and Jerome Chevallier (Technical Manger,
AFTS3).
Preparation of this ICR was begun in November 1996. It is based on the Report and
Recommendation of the President, supervision reports, correspondence between the
Borrower and the Bank, and internal Bank memoranda. The Borrower prepared its own
evaluation of the Program and commented on the draft ICR; a summary of the Borrower's
evaluation is included in this report. The full report by the Borrower is available upon
request from the Africa Information Services Center.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
HEALTH AND POPULATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(CR. 2211-TO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    The Bank's Role in the Country and in the Sector. The Bank has sought to support the
Government's efforts to promote equitable and sustainable growth and development. This has
involved a multifaceted approach, comprising policy dialogue, buttressed by economic and sector
work, lending for both projects and structural adjustment, and mobilization of donor support for
Togo. Since the early 1980s the Bank has played an important role in initiating and sustaining the
policy dialogue with the Government. Through a series of structural adjustment credits, the Bank
has been in regular contact with the Government on its overall strategy and specific policy priorities.
This dialogue has been reflected in Policy Framework Papers (PFP), which have also served to
ensure consistency between World Bank and International Monetary Fund programs. The Health
and Population Sector Adjustment Program (HPSAP) complemented the work undertaken under the
SAC IV operation; the HPSAP was approved in January 1991.
2.    Objectives of the HPSAP.  The key objective of the HPSAP was to support the
implementation of a comprehensive package of sector policy reforms in the area of population and
health aimed at assuring a satisfactory level of primary health care and family planning services to
the population at large by focusing on systemic and fundamental constraints on good service
delivery. As articulated in the President's Report, the Program intended to address, in the short to
medium term, pervasive morbidity and mortality resulting from inadequate treatment and prevention
of tropical communicable and parasitic diseases and increase current use of family planning. To
achieve these results, quick-disbursing funds were provided to support efficiency gains and
institutional change, on the grounds that the sector policy reforms would be at short-term risk
without this financial support. As described in the Credit Agreement, over a four-year period the
Program was to: (a) institute better sector planning; (b) reform institutional deficiencies within the
Ministry of Health (MH) and at regional levels; (c) improve personnel and financial management in
the sector; and (d) institute cost recovery and improve beneficiary participation in management of
services. The policy measures incorporated in the Program were expected to reverse a deterioration
in the quality of basic health services and gradually increase their accessibility to the general public,
particularly in rural areas and among the most deprived groups. The African Development Bank,
Germany, and USAID also supported the policy reform program through parallel funding.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    Tranche Reviews and Implementation Schedule. The first tranche was released upon
effectiveness in March 1992. An extended delay in effectiveness resulted from political tensions in
the country and the consultations needed to meet the very substantial conditions: establishment of a
financial management and accounting system satisfactory to IDA, budgetary allocations satisfactory
to IDA, and staff redeployment to five regional directorates; the emerging political problems may
also be partly responsible. Soon after effectiveness Togo's economic and financial performance
started to deteriorate as a result of protracted political crisis. The crisis began in late 1991 and
continued until the end of 1993. The situation was aggravated by the suspension - as a result of the



ii
crisis - of external aid by several major donors to Togo. The resulting absence of a macroeconomic
framework satisfactory to IDA precluded release of the second tranche during that period. Following
the January 1994 CFAF devaluation, the Government reached agreement with the Bank and the Fund
on a medium-term PFP; in the PFP the Government committed itself to allocating adequate
budgetary resources to health and education, with the objective of raising the quality and coverage of
services to the pre-crisis level. Implementation of the reforms under the HPSAP resumed, and the
second tranche was released in May 1994. The closing date of the Credit was extended from June
30, 1995 to June 30, 1996; this was justified oni the grounds that the Government had made an effort
to carry out the agreed program of reforms in spite of the political difficulties, that the reforms were
still incomplete, and that the extension would allow the Bank to continue the dialogue initiated with
the Government on a number of health issues following the CFAF devaluation. Reviews of progress
in implementing the Program were held in February and May 1995, and the third and fourth tranches
were released in October 1995 and June 1996, respectively.
4.     Achievement of Objectives. Togo's protracted economic and social crisis severely affected
the execution of the Program and its achievements. When the Bank resumed lending in 1994,
following a two-year suspension, a new medium-term framework for the health and population
sector had to be developed, as the previously agreed plans no longer provided relevant guidance on
appropriate budgetary allocations, given Togo's much worsened economic and financial situation.
During discussions in 1995, agreement was reached on the level of the health sector allocation for
the 1996 budget and on revised Public Investment Program (PIP) allocations for the sector. The
Government undertook to increase public spending for health as a share of total budgetary
expenditures from six percent to the 1991 level of 7.2 percent, and to limit investment spending to
the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure. A medium-term financing plan for the sector was
prepared in the context of a Public Expenditure Review (PER) in 1995/1996.
5.    In spite of the crisis, some policy reforms were achieved. Regional and prefectoral health
directorates were established, in line witlh the objective of progressively decentralizing the
management of the health system. Much remains to be done, however, to make them fully
operational. A new program budgeting system was adopted in 1995 with the aim of ensuring that
funds were allocated according to norms and criteria established in the operational strategy. A cost
recovery program, developed to mobilize additional resources for sector operations, was successfully
introduced in over 80 percent of the country's public sector health facilities. Steps were taken to
make more affordable essential generic drugs available to the population, particularly those living in
rural areas. Finally, family planning services were expanded through both the Government and the
NGO network. The contraceptive prevalence rate for modern contraception, which was four percent
at the time of the 1988 Demographic and Health Survey (DHS), is now estimated at nine percent.
6.     One important objective of the HPSAP was the development of a sustainable essential drug
procurement system. To this end, the Program supported the abolition of the monopoly of the
public drug procurement agency, TOGOPHARMA, on the import and distribution of drugs and its
restructuring into an essential generic drug purchasing agency. Because of the government's
reluctance to reduce the size of TOGOPHARMA's personnel, IDA pushed for the establishment of a
new essential drug buying agency with a statute based on a partnership among interested parties--the
Government, the donors, and the communities (the latter through management committees at
peripheral health facilities). A draft statute of the new purchasing agency is currently being studied
by the Bank, while TOGOPHARMA has been included in the privatization program agreed between
the Government and the Bank within the framework of public enterprise reform.



iii
7.    Key Factors that Affected Achievement of Major Objectives. In retrospect, the HPSAP
was too ambitious. It intended to carry out important long-term health reforms and to achieve
substantial improvements in numerous health and social indicators in the short to medium term. The
adjustment Program placed considerable emphasis on the reorganization of the MH, expecting that it
would set off a major improvement in the overall performance of the health sector. The reasons why
this did not occur provide useful lessons for IDA's future interventions in the health sector: (i) At the
time of the preparation of the Program, the MH lacked health economists, planners, managers, and
administrators capable of managing the planning, programming, and budgeting of the essential
activities. Thus, the MH and the Bank had to rely mostly on external consultants for the preparation
work. This resulted in a Program which the MH never fully internalized nor was able to manage. (ii)
The key positions created under the reorganization of the MH were never filled with competent staff,
nor was sufficient technical assistance provided to train staff to eventually take over these positions.
The shortage of staff became even more acute over the years as personnel who retired were not
replaced. (iii) Too much attention was placed on the formal reorganization of the MH, without taking
into account the considerable authority for decisions affecting the health sector resting with the
Ministries of Finance (which decides the amounts and the intersectoral allocation of resources, and
significantly influences their intrasectoral allocation) and Planning (which prepares the PIP, mostly
on the basis of political considerations and with little regard for the recurrent cost implications of the
investment decisions). (iv) Key stakeholders, such as local communities and NGO, were never fully
engaged in the Program. Community participation was limited to involvement in cost recovery.
8.    Togo's prolonged political and social turmoil compounded the above problems: between
1992 and 1996 five different ministers headed the Ministry of Health; also, its name even changed
according to the circumstances. Senior personnel in the Ministry also changed when a new Minister
was appointed. Others left the country because of the political situation. These frequent changes
considerably affected both the will and the ability of the Government to carry out health and
population sector policy reforms. With the sharp decline in the economy, financing for the health
sector was drastically reduced; MH recurrent spending fell from CFAF 5.0 billion in 1991 to CFAF
2.2 billion in 1993. The effects of this situation can be seen in dilapidated, underequipped and
understaffed health facilities; in a chronic shortage of vaccines, drugs and other essential medical
supplies; and in a widespread perception of a downward trend in the utilization of health services.
9.    An adjustment operation, with its emphasis on one-time, centrally driven policy decisions,
was not the most appropriate instrument for ensuring execution of the numerous policy measures and
institutional changes which had been identified as key to successful implementation of health reform.
A series of investment operations, coupled with continuous policy dialogue and careful monitoring
of sectoral issues, would have been more appropriate. The staff in Togo's MH agree with this
assessment, which is the most important lesson learned from the operation.
10.   Performance of the Borrower and the Bank. The Borrower's performance was severely
affected by the near civil war atmosphere that prevailed in Togo in 1992 and 1993. The two
committees (Comite Technique de Coordination et de Suivi, and Comite Technique des Directeurs)
that were created to ensure inter- and intrasectoral collaboration and monitor and supervise the
implementation of the reform program never met during the HPSAP implementation period. The
enduring weakness of the center pushed the newly established regional and prefectoral directorates to
become more self-reliant. Most have managed, and continue to manage, without much assistance
from Lome, relying on cost recovery as their only source of funds for non-personnel recurrent
expenditures. Thus, a disorderly and disorganized decentralization of public sector health care



iv
services has occurred. It is now appropriate for the authorities, with Bank support, to build on and
reinforce the positive aspects of this experience.
11.    The performance of the Bank was satisfactory: Supervision missions took place regularly at
a rate of two per year. Even during the period of prolonged crisis, the dialogue was maintained
through the Resident Mission. The Bank also maintained a dialogue with the other donors and
invited them to join supervision missions. When the policy dialogue resumed in 1994 after almost
two years of suspension, it would perhaps have been more sensible to transform the adjustment credit
into an investment operation. In informal discussion between the MH and Bank staff, in practice the
Credit was in part handled as an investment operation: At the Government's initiative, half of the
amount of the third tranche was earmarked for the purchase of urgently needed essential generic
drugs.  International competitive bidding for pharmaceuticals procurement was introduced, and
purchases were made at prices substantially lower than estimates.
12.    During and after the long socio-political crisis, the IDA Credit was a major source of funds
for Togo's health sector. The situation in the sector would have been much worse had the IDA funds
not been available.
Sustainability and Key Lessons for Future Operations
13.    Sustainability. The HPSAP drew attention to the extent of the problems in the health sector,
and to the necessity of allocating adequate resources to respond to the needs of the population.
However, because of the financial crisis, the Government has been unable to maintain a minimum
core program of services in the sector. Although some resources were mobilized through cost
recovery, they are insufficient to ensure sustainability of reform. Given the current fiscal constraints,
the Government would find it extremely difficult to fill the financing gap of a reasonable minimum
package of services without very substantial external support. Thus, sustainability in the Togolese
health sector does not mean phasing out donor support and its analysis on the basis of traditional
one-by-one investment project finance. Instead it requires a realistic evaluation of the nature, cost,
and size of the country's health sector program, combined with an objective assessment of current
and potential Government, beneficiary, and donor financial and other contributions, including the
most appropriate areas for donor financing and their duration.
14.    The experience under the HPSAP has significantly influenced the preparation of a new
health sector decentralization project. A participatory approach has been adopted for the preparation
of the new operation, to build ownership. A major preparation role has been entrusted to working
groups established around priority themes, such as institutional reforms, human resources, cost
recovery, community participation, and the involvement of the private sector. The groups are
composed of ministry officials and representatives of a wide spectrum of stakeholders such as the
donors, NGO, the faculty of medicine, private medical and pharmaceutical associations, and
traditional medicine. -A consensus has developed among the working groups on the need to carry out
an effective decentralization of the health system and encourage greater participation of the
communities in decision making. The Government has adopted this as its strategy. The next IDA
operation would be used to pilot-test the operational feasibility of providing a sound package of
essential health services on an organized, decentralized basis within a prudent financial framework.
In the new operation, considerable emphasis is being placed on (i) rationalizing and strengthening
the decentralization process, by shifting planning of detailed health services, budgeting and financial
management to the districts and by increasingly involving the communities; (ii) supporting NGO and
other private health providers, whose activities will be integrated in the district work plans; and (iii)



v
promoting sound health behaviors and demand for appropriate health services through information,
education, and communication (IEC) activities.
15.   The HPSAP sought to address the problem of the penury of health personnel at the periphery
through the redeployment of staff. This proved very difficult to implement. Under the new
operation, the MH intends to handle the management of human resources at the decentralized level,
through local contracting of staff. As the decentralization of the health system progresses, the role
of the MH will need to change and more emphasis will need to be given - as was intended under the
HPSAP - to health policy formulation, standard setting, supervision, monitoring and evaluation.
IDA will help strengthen the MH to carry out these responsibilities, but needs to be careful to avoid
unintentionally stimulating efforts at recentralization of responsibilities for service delivery under the
guise of institutional development.
16.   The HPSAP was the first Bank-financed operation in the health sector in Togo. A number of
important lessons can be drawn from the experience:
a) The inadequacy of adjustment lending as a vehicle to address health sector issues and long-term
institutional development problems. An adjustment operation with its tranche release mechanisms
focuses the attention of decision-makers on one-time decisions, while the health sector needs a
sustained dialogue and more attention to sectoral rather than macroeconomic issues. A series of
investment operations would most probably have been more adequate instruments for achieving the
sound policy and institutional reform objectives of the HPSAP.
b) The importance of country strategy and strategy coordination in cases of civil strife. Greater
consideration might have been given, for example, to cancellation of the second through the fourth
tranches of the SECAL, but work under way which led to the CFA devaluation effectively precluded
such action.
c) The importance of modesty and realism in reform programs in an institutionally weak sector such
as health. Reading over the Government's statement of health programs and objectives, one cannot
help but be struck by its excessively ambitious character, particularly under an adjustment Program
which was to be implemented in a four-year period.
d) The importance of identifying and involving key stakeholders. In a capacity building effort it is
important to understand who are the key stakeholders and who is involved in the decision-making
process. Excessive emphasis was placed on the formal reorganization of the MH without taking into
account that the MH had limited control over its own budget. The role of communities as important
stakeholders was not sufficiently taken into account under the Program. Community participation
was limited to cost recovery, while the Program should have envisaged ways to further involve
communities in the management of peripheral health facilities.
e) The importance of ownership of the adjustment operation by the Borrower. Reforms of the
magnitude envisaged under the HPSAP need a long process of consensus building extending from
preparation through execution. It appears that not much consensus building took place during
preparation. Because of MH weakness, excessive use was made of consultants, with the result that
the HPSAP was never fully internalized. Indeed, its execution was beyond the capacity of the
Togolese civil service.



vi
]) In an environment facing severe financial and human resource constraints, a phased
implementation reduces risks offailure A phased approach, with a more modest start and a greater
focus on priorities, would have been more appropriate than the HPSAP in view of the financial and
human resources constraints faced by the country.
g) The importance of practical, operational decentralization. The Government realized at the end of
the Program that it needed to carry out an effective decentralization of the health system and achieve
effective community management of health services in order to overcome the crisis affecting the
health sector. Such decentralization would need to focus more than in the past on effective
utilization of health services by the affected population, rather than only on their supply.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
HEALTH AND POPULATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(CR. 2211-TO)
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.   INTRODUCTION
A. Macroeconomic Setting
1.   In the early 1980s Togo faced a severe fiscal and balance of payments crisis, due to
inadequate macroeconomic policies and a decline in phosphate, cocoa, and coffee prices. To
address its economic problems, Togo entered into a series of structural adjustment programs
supported by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. These adjustment efforts
were generally successful in improving economic performance. Reforms pursued focused on
agricultural pricing and marketing policy, restructuring the public enterprise sector and
improving resource allocation and efficiency; and promoting industrial sector exports. The
three-year long political crisis which started in late 1991, however, led to a significant
deterioration of Togo's economic and financial performance. Government revenues dropped
52 percent in 1992-93, while external arrears rose to CFAF 31 billion, approximately 15
percent of GDP. This situation was aggravated by the suspension of external aid.
B. The Bank's Role in the Country and in the Sector
2.    The Bank's involvement in Togo has been wide-ranging, involving a mixture of
investment and adjustment lending. The Health and Population Sector Adjustment Program
represents the Bank's first sector adjustment operation in Togo and the first operation in the
health sector. Through implementation of specific institutional reforms, the Program aimed
at improving the delivery of primary health care and family planning services. The Program
also addressed sector financial management issues, such as maintenance of minimum core
expenditures in the sector, institution of a three-year rolling investment budgeting process in
the sector, mobilization of additional resources through cost-sharing, and institution of a new
program budgeting system.
II.   PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
A. Original Program Objectives
3.    The principal original objective of the Health and Population Sector Adjustment
Prograrn was to support the implementation of a vast program of reforms in the health and
population sector, with a view to improving the level of primary health care services and
family planning to the population, especially in the rural areas. The reform program intended
to reduce, in the short and medium term, morbidity and mortality which resulted from



2
inadequate treatment and prevention of tropical communicable and parasitic diseases, and to
increase utilization of family planning services. More specifically, the Program aimed at
helping the Government to: (a) improve sectoral planning; (b) eliminate institutional
weaknesses in the Ministry of Health and at the regional level; (c) improve personnel and
financial management in the sector; (d) establish cost recovery; and (e) strengthen beneficiary
participation in the management of health services.
4.    The reforms to achieve the adjustment objectives were centered around five priority
axes: (a) improvement in the strategic framework and overall policies, (b) strengthening of
the overall management of the sector, (c) strengthening of the financial management of the
sector, (d) improvement of service delivery, and (e) strengthening of the effectiveness and
management of personnel. The implementation of these reforms was supported by an IDA
Credit, which was released in four tranches. The first tranche was released on Credit
effectiveness (March 31, 1992).  The remaining three tranches were released upon
satisfactory fulfillment of the specific tranche release conditions.  The tranche release
conditions included: (i) the implementation of a macroeconomic framework consistent with
Program objectives; (ii) progress in key areas, including the reorganization and strengthening
of the MH, establishment of an appropriate system of procurement and distribution of drugs,
including adequate mechanisms for cost recovery, and improved access to family planning
services; and (iii) allocation of budget resources from the national budget agreed with IDA.
The President's Report stated that the Government would increase public sector health
expenditures by an average of 7.5 percent each year from 1991-1994. These financial
commitments were intended to help sustain the rhythm of the reforms and strengthen the
sustainability of the health and population sector institutions. Yet the Government's fiscal
effort for health (see Appendix D) fell by 57 percent from 1991 to 1993, but increased nearly
200 percent from 1993 to 1994.
B. Expected Outcomes
5.    According to the President's Report, the Progran was to contribute to improving the
well-being and productivity of the Togolese population by improving health service delivery
and by increasing access to services by underserved groups. The population were to become
aware of the constraints of high rates of population growth and of their negative
consequences on economic development. It was also expected that the performance of the
health system would improve, thanks to: (a) better planning; (b) more effective institutional
arrangements at the national and regional levels; (c) improved personnel and financial
management; and (d) efficient cost recovery and beneficiary participation in service
management.
C. The Risks
6.    Three risks were described in the President's Report, along with the measures taken to
address them. The risks, the measures taken, and the results may be summarized as follows:
(a) Government commitment might wane during implementation, which was thought to have
been managed by national consensus during preparation, institutional arrangements for



3
monitoring, and macroeconomic and sectoral conditionalities; during execution, of course,
Government commitment did wane, under the stresses of political crisis. (b) Government
may lack the institutional capacity to implement the Program, which was thought to have
been addressed adequately by the establishment of frequent reviews by the Comite Technique
de Coordination et de Suivi (CTCS), through training and TA support, and through
workshops and planned IDA monitoring; here, too, capacity was weakened rather than
strengthened, during the period of Program execution, but probably it was weakened
substantially less than it would have been in the absence of the Program. (c) Poor
macroeconomic performance may affect resource allocation to the sector or interfere with the
proposed reforms. This was thought to have been managed by conditionality linking sector
performance to performance at the macroeconomic level, and strong donor commitment.
7.    With hindsight it is clear that all three risks became realities. The measures taken to
manage them were not adequate, nor - in practice - could they have been adequate to manage
the challenges which arose. The risk that Togo might fall into civil strife, and that GDP
might collapse, was not specifically identified. This risk clearly overwhelmed all the other
risks, and called for alternative responses by the Bank on a country-wide basis; one such
action taken was to increase the financing percentage of projects in the portfolio of ongoing
operations.
III. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
8.    The Credit for the Health and Population Sector Adjustment Program became
effective on March 31, 1992. By that time the country was already well into a serious socio-
political crisis.  This crisis considerably delayed effectiveness and weakened the
Government's already limited capacity to manage effectively development programs and
policies. The spirit behind, and much of the letter of the commitments given by the
Government in its socio-health policy letter, did not survive the crisis which shook the
country. The nine-month general strike (November 1992 to July 1993) initiated by the
political parties of the opposition, and by the unions, hindered the operation of public
services, including health services, and demobilized the personnel directly in charge of the
execution of the Adjustment Program.
9.    Two institutions were created to monitor and coordinate the different activities
foreseen under the Program, the Interministerial Technical Committee for Coordination and
Monitoring of the Health and Population Program (CTCS) and the intrasectoral Management
and Supervision Committee (Comite Technique des Directeurs--CTD). Neither of these
bodies was ever able to function properly. Consequently, the overall Program could not be
executed with the required rigorous management. The status of execution of the different
specific Program priorities set out in the Matrix of Program Targets (see Appendix C) shows
that certain sub-programs were neglected or obtained very modest results. Program activities
which targeted improvements in specific areas of the health sector and their actual status can
be found in the Policy Matrix of Anticipated Actions (see Table 5).



4
A. Improving the Strategic Framework and National Policies
10.  In 1990, the Government adopted a population policy. Its goals were to sensitize the
people to the risks associated with rapid population growth, to increase access to farnily
planning services, and to improve the primary health care services in order to combat
morbidity and mortality. During the same period, the Government also adopted a general
health sector policy to address the basic primary health care needs of the population at the
national, regional, and peripheral levels, as well as an operational strategy. The policy
document and the strategy based on this policy were to guide all investments in the sector,
and formed the basis for the Adjustment Program.
11.   A number of positive results were achieved from 1991 to 1996. With the support of
USAID and the cooperation of several national and international NGO, the Government
intensified the implementation of the national family planning program; this was anticipated
specifically in the conditions for release of the second tranche, which called for achievement
of satisfactory progress in improving access to family planning services and primary health
care. More than one hundred health posts were equipped and their personnel trained in
family planning techniques. The national NGO ATBEF (Association Togolaise pour le Bien-
Etre Familial--The Togolese Association for Family Welfare) trained and deployed nearly 40
"nmotivators" in farnily planning throughout the country, joining the 200 agents trained by
specialized services. Between 1992 and 1994, US$200,000 worth of contraceptives and
condoms were distributed each year in urban centers and in certain rural zones. Policies,
standards, and procedures for family planning were developed and provided to the technical
services. Teaching of family planning was introduced in training programs at the National
Mid-Wives School (Ecole National des Sages-Femmes--ENSF) and at the school for medical
assistants (Ecole Nationale des Auxiliaires Midicaux--ENAM). These efforts helped raise
the prevalence rate of modem contraceptives from four percent in 1988 to an estimated nine
percent in 1996. With the support of certain donors (mainly GTZ of Germany and the French
Cooperation), the primary health care services improved in the Central and Plateaux Regions.
However, the success could have been greater if some other highly active donors in the sector
(such as the EU and KfW) had not suspended or reduced their assistance due to the socio-
political crisis.
12.   Additional successes of the Adjustment Program are discussed further below.
Particular highlights concern pharmaceuticals, where competitive bidding was introduced and
the monopoly of the parastatal TOGOPHARMA was ended. A final, and by no means small,
achievement was supporting and preventing further deterioration in the Togolese health
system through a period of crisis.
B. Strengthening General Sector Management
13.  In its 1991 Health Policy Paper, the Government committed itself to restructuring the
Ministry of Public Health by redefining functions and responsibilities at the regional and
central level. As executing functions were to be decentralized at the regional and prefectoral
levels, the tasks of the central units were redefined to emphasize planning, coordinating,



S
monitoring, and evaluation. Five central directorates were established within the General
Directorate of Public Health: Primary Health Care, Family Health, Planning and Personnel
Training, Administrative and Financial Affairs and Phannaceutical Services. The Directorate
of Planning and Personnel Training was expected to play an important role in the
implementation of the reform program. However, because of human resource constraints,
including the lack of a Director for a number of years, it never functioned properly. Also the
other Directorates were affected by important human resource constraints. At the peripheral
level, five Regional Health Directorates and 30 Prefectoral Directorates were established.
The reorganization implied the organized, systematic transfer of day-to-day management
from central to regional and prefectoral units, thereby laying the groundwork for progressive
decentralization of the public sector health care services. The function and responsibilities of
the peripheral units vis-a-vis the center were, however, never clearly defined. Lack of
budgetary resources was a major obstacle for these units to effectively improve the delivery
of health services at the peripheral level. The extreme weakness of the center obliged the
peripheral units to become self-reliant, utilizing whatever financing they could collect at the
local level.
14.   As indicated above, two structures were created to ensure inter- and intrasectoral
coordination: the Technical Committee of Coordination and Monitoring (CTCS) of the
Health and Population Program and the Technical Committee of Directors (CTD). The
former was to bring together staff from several ministries and even from outside
organizations, such as the Chamber of Commerce, Agriculture, and Industry of Togo. The
role of the CTCS was to monitor the effective implementation of the measures and actions
foreseen under the Adjustment Program in order to guarantee their coherence and
compatibility with the overall objectives of the sectoral policies. It was also to monitor the
use of external aid in order to avoid duplication and to assure coherence among the health
programs and projects financed by various donors. However, throughout the execution of the
Program the CTCS never met, and coordination at the interministerial and donor levels took
place on an ad hoc basis, mostly organized by the donors through their local offices. Within
the Ministry the heads of the programs planned and executed their activities, in cooperation
with donors, according to their availability, financing, and individual vision. The Technical
Committee of Directors never met, either.
C. Strengthening Sector Financial Management
15.   The Ministry of Health adopted a new program budgeting process to ensure that funds
were allocated according to established norms and criteria. To this end, the General
Directorate of Health developed, in collaboration with the Directorates of the Treasury and
Budget, a procedural guide and models of program budgets for each level of service. The
adoption of the program budgeting system was useful in determining the funding needed to
implement the different priority programs. It was first used during the preparation of the
1996 health budget, and enhanced the capacity of the MH to defend its expenditure proposals
during budget discussions with the Ministries of Finance and Planning. However, the manual
handling of operations inhibited the verification of available information in a timely manner



6
and resulted in considerable delays in the centralization and analysis of the data on budget
execution.
16.   In 1991 the Government instituted a three-year rolling investment budgeting process
for health services. With the exception of 1992 and 1993, the health sector PIP was annually
discussed and agreed with IDA. Investment expenditures in 1994 and 1995 were in line with
the agreed proposals. Discussions on the 1996 PIP led the Government to delete an
important construction program  of new health facilities, and to give priority to the
rehabilitation and re-equipping of existing health infrastructure. Throughout the consultations
with the authorities on the health PIP, IDA expressed reservations about certain projects such
as the construction of new health centers and hospitals, which had been retained in the
program for purely political reasons. The staff asked that they be removed from the PIP, on
the grounds that more efficient uses of investment funds for health improvement were
available; The 1996-98 health PIP was found satisfactory, and a new PIP is currently under
review.
17.   Before execution of the Program began, the Government agreed, in its health and
social policy statement and in the policy matrix included in the President's Report, to
maintain a minimum core of expenditures in the health sector to protect indispensable social
services. It also agreed to increase the allocation for non-wage operating expenses from 24
percent of sector expenditures in 1990 to 35 percent in 1994. These measures were to be
monitored annually by the CTCS and reviewed jointly with IDA.  However, these
understandings were not always respected, particularly in 1992 and 1993, when only 20
percent and less than 10 percent respectively, of the planned funds were disbursed for non-
wage operating expenses. Faced with budgetary difficulties, the Government continued to
pay salary expenses, but reduced the provisions for operating expenses. However, the
resources of the IDA Credit helped maintain certain essential services, especially the
provision of pharmaceuticals. In effect, a system of informal earmarking of Credit funds
evolved in consultation with IDA; this permitted the Togolese authorities to ensure the
availability of at least limited amounts (see Appendix D) of liquid resources for health
services at a time of great illiquidity.
18.   Mobilization of supplementary resources for the health sector was possible primarily
because of the introduction, in 1990, of a cost-recovery system under the Bamako Initiative.
This system of community financing, which was introduced with the financial and technical
support of UNICEF, was first tested in 200 of the 400 dispensaries. In 1994 it was expanded
to about 80 percent of the public sector health care facilities in the country. Management
Committees, which include community representatives, were established at the level of
peripheral health facilities to handle cost recovery and drug revolving funds. However, this
system of financial management was never fully implemented. Despite this highly irregular
situation, most health facilities were able to retain the vast majority of their receipts;
disappearance of funds was kept to a minimum. In December 1995, the Ministry of Health
estimated that the communities had contributed about four percent of total health sector
spending.



7
19.   Despite cost recovery and IDA funding, financial resources for the health and
population sector declined dramatically during execution of the Adjustment Program. As
detailed in Appendix D to this report, actual expenditures - from Government funds and
donors - were only 40 and 20 percent, respectively, of programmed expenditures in 1992 and
1993; by 1994, thanks to support flowing after the CFAF devaluation, the figure rose to 83
percent.
D. Improving Service Delivery
20.   As a result of the IDA Credit, assistance from other donors, NGO, and certain
religious orders, the MH was able to rehabilitate and equip health facilities in a few regions
of the country, notably in the Plateaux (French Cooperation), Central (KfW-GTZ), and
Maritime (GTZ and religious missions) Regions. The support of WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA,
AfDB, the World Bank and international and national NGO was instrumental in maintaining
a minimum level of maternal and child health services, family planning, AIDS control, and
health education. However, these efforts were not sufficient to improve the quality of health
services. Because of reduced budgetary allocations and other disruptions, at the time of the
completion mission the bulk of the health facilities were in a state of deterioration, and
needed urgent repairs. Even in areas where donors helped to rehabilitate health facilities and
provide drugs and other needed inputs, the level of utilization of health services remained
low.
21.   While little viable data are available, health indicators appear to have deteriorated
during the crisis. The child mortality rate is estimated at 137 per 1,000, while maternal
mortality is now estimated at 600 per 100,000 live births. Morbidity remains high and is
characterized by the predominance of infectious and parasitic diseases, with malaria at the
top affecting almost 40 percent of the population. Other predominant illnesses include
diarrhea, respiratory ailments, malnutrition in children, and HIV whose prevalence is
estimated at 5 percent of the adult population. In contrast to the decline in other areas, in
STD/AIDS control the Government made notable progress. Training has been organized for
health personnel and teachers (250 socio-health staff trained in 1996); condom distribution to
persons who are seropositive and to those at risk has reached 50 percent of its objective;
sensitization campaigns in the media and sensitization meetings for decision-makers have
also been organized. Much remains to be done, however, and the Government has planned
several activities which will be executed in the coming years to remind the population of how
to manage the risks associated with these diseases.
22.   Public sector health facilities were authorized, as of the end of 1990, to retain 20
percent of the receipts of the sale of drugs to finance recurrent costs. The remaining 80
percent was used to establish and operate drug revolving funds. The lack of a system for the
regular supply of drugs, however, prevented many health facilities from replenishing their
stocks. To remedy the situation, in cooperation with the Bank, the Government decided to
earmark under the second and third tranche US$3 million, or approximately 21 percent of the
total IDA credit for the purchase of essential drugs; the procurement of these drugs through
international competitive bidding resulted in estimated unit cost savings of 20 percent. In the



8
particular circumstances prevailing in Togo, this action represented an appropriately flexible
response by the Borrower and the Bank.
23.   In addition to the purchase of drugs, the Ministry of Health began a series of activities
leading to better regulation of the pharmaceutical sub-sector: development of a national
therapeutic guide and a guide for use of essential drugs; revision of the list of essential drugs
and the national nomenclature; development of texts regulating the opening of
pharmaceutical depots; development of a national pharmaceutical policy, and the
establishment of pharmaceutical legislation. Under the letter of development policy which
accompanied the Economic Recovery and Adjustment Credit approved by the Board in 1996,
the Government also revised the pharmaceutical law and adopted a regulatory framework for
the import and distribution of drugs, as a condition for second tranche release it is adopting a
price structure for drugs and pharmaceutical products acceptable to IDA. To ensure a regular
supply of essential generic drugs to the country, the Government is establishing a central
drug purchasing agency, CAMEG. The statute of this agency, based on a partnership among
interested parties, namely, the Government, the donors, and the communities, has been
drafted and submitted to IDA for comments.
E. Strengthening Personnel Performance and Management
24.   Little progress was achieved in the area of personnel, due to the weakness of the units
in charge of personnel management and in-service training, and the flight of many public
sector staff from Togo during the crisis. In-service training continued to be managed ad hoc
by the different donors in the context of their operations. Achievements in the area of
personnel management include: the development of personnel norms, and qualitative and
quantitative studies on the redeployment and motivation of personnel, with particular
reference to the personnel of TOGOPHARMA.
IV.   FACTORS AFFECTING PERFORMANCE
A. Difficult Political Environment and Unfavorable Economic Situation
25.   Implementation of the Health and Population Sector Adjustment Program began in
1992 in a particularly difficult political and social context. Beginning in November 1992, the
general strike by the opposition parties and unions paralyzed the public administration and all
economically active sectors for nine months. The economic and social infrastructure was
considerably affected and started to deteriorate. During the period of strife, the bilateral
donors and the European Union suspended their assistance to the country in the hope that it
would push the authorities to accelerate the pace of political reforms. The political events
had a deep effect on the economic situation. Between 1991 and 1993, real GDP dropped
nearly 22 percent. The fiscal situation deteriorated, and receipts and investment expenses fell
by approximately 62 percent and 75 percent, respectively. To finance fiscal deficits, the
Government accumulated internal and external payment arrears and relied on advances from
public enterprises. Due to a lack of funds, the physical infrastructure was not maintained.
This situation gravely compromised access to and use of public sector health services and



9
undermined implementation of the institutional reforms envisaged in the Sectoral Adjustment
Program.
B. Ministerial Instability and Weak Management Capacity at the Ministry of Health
26.   One of the primary objectives of the adjustment Program was to help reorganize and
strengthen the Ministry of Health both at the central and peripheral levels. This objective
however, could not be achieved. The implementation of the entire adjustment Program
suffered from considerable ministerial instability. Between March 1992 and the end of June
1996, five different ministers were appointed to head a Ministry whose name also changed
according to the circumstances (Ministry of Public Health in 1991, Ministry of Health and
Population in 1992, Ministry of Health, Population and National Solidarity in 1994, Ministry
of Public Health in 1995, and Ministry of Health in 1996). The frequent change of the person
in charge of the Ministry also affected the continuity in the commitments made by the
Government to execute reform measures.
27.   At the time of Program preparation, the Ministry of Health lacked health economists,
planners, managers, and administrators capable of managing the planning, programming, and
budgeting of the essential activities. External consultants were hired to assist the Ministry
finalize the preparatory studies and implement the program.  Technical support on
procurement was recruited during execution, to help with what became the successful
launching of international competitive bidding for pharmaceuticals.  The shortage of
qualified personnel became increasingly acute over the years, as Ministry of Finance
decisions required that retiring personnel not be replaced; their positions were simply
abolished. About 800 persons left the Ministry of Health between 1992 and 1996 and were
not replaced. The shortage of staff affected both central and peripheral units, where trained
personnel were increasingly replaced by untrained staff.
C. The Role of Program Monitoring Institutions
28.   Representing many ministries and professional organizations and responsible for
monitoring the implementation of the measures and actions related to the Adjustment
Program, the CTCS never functioned throughout the entire implementation of the Program.
Also, the Coordination Committee of the central services activities of the General Directorate
of Health remained inoperative for the duration of Program execution, so that the consensus
necessary to continue the rhythm of reform failed to be sustained. The reforms never
received the needed boost, as emphasis by public officials was placed more on the resolution
of daily administrative problems. The head of the General Directorate of Health was the only
person who could make decisions, and he made them on the spur of the moment, without
necessarily referring to the strategies and action plans of the Program. This situation had its
origins in the political and civil uncertainties prevailing in Togo.



10
D. Community Participation
29.   The Program envisaged considerable NGO, beneficiary, and community involvement
in the management of health programs and problems. The decentralization of the health
system at the regional and prefectoral level and the establishment of health management
committees at the level of peripheral health facilities were expected to serve this purpose. In
reality, communities and NGO were only marginally associated with the execution of the
reform program and failed to act in concert with the Ministry to resolve sectoral problems.
As a result, the beneficiaries distanced themselves from the public sector health system
instead of joining together to play a role complementary to that of the state.
V.   BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
A. Bank Performance
30.   The Sectoral Adjustment Program was the Bank's first operation in the health and
population sector in Togo, and apparently the first and nearly the only health, nutrition and
population SECAL.  The Program  was prepared when the Government indicated
commitment to sector reforms, including participation of beneficiaries. The Bank responded
by facilitating the engagement of technical support for the design of the Program.
Consultants financed by the Bank reviewed sectoral policies, evaluated the maternal and
child health, the family planning, the community development and women's programs, and
the costs and expected outcomes of the reforms.  Because of the local institutional
weaknesses, the preparation process was mostly led by the consultants. The Ministry was
neither in a position to internalize the preparation process, nor to ensure the daily
management of the Program required to maintain the course of the reforms.
31.   Bank supervision missions took place regularly, at a rate of two per year. Even at the
height of the socio-political crisis, contact was maintained with the Government through the
Resident Mission. The Bank also maintained a permanent dialogue with the other donors in
Lome, and invited them to join supervision missions and other meetings held in conjunction
with the monitoring of the Program. WHO, and U2NICEF (and until 1994, USAID) were
involved and participated in the supervision missions. During the course of supervision, for
fully understandable reasons relating to facilitating the release of the tranches, the Bank
placed too much emphasis on the tranche release conditions (sector allocations to the State
budget, triennial PIP review) and not enough on the institutional reforms. However, the staff
were creative and flexible in working with the Borrower informally to adapt the use of Credit
funds for purposes which have some similarity to project finance: Specific items were
chosen, particularly pharmaceuticals, of special importance for health services, and the Credit
funds were reserved by the Government to finance them, even though the formal
requirements of the Credit did not foresee this.
32.   The Bank's Resident Mission played an essential role in the monitoring of the
Program by organizing periodic discussions with the technical services of the sector and the
donors' local representatives. These meetings were useful in hastening the preparation of



I1
documents necessary for tranche releases and encouraged the Ministry to review its activities
in light of priorities.
B. Borrower Performance
33.   The Ministry of Public Health and other Togolese agencies concerned had great
difficulty in mastering the Program and in maintaining the pace of reforms, as they lacked the
necessary human resources in the areas of planning, programming, budgeting, and the
management and the political will that might have been generated by greater continuity of
senior officials. The control and monitoring mechanisms did not function, and no activity
report was ever submitted to the Bank in spite of the multiple reminders made by the
supervision teams and by the Resident Mission. Furthermore, due to a severe cash shortage,
the budgetary allocations to the sector were not matched by actual disbursement of the
necessary resources to cover operating and maintenance costs. In 1993, for example, the
budget allocation for material was only one-third of its 1991 level; furthermore, only 53
percent of this drastically reduced level was actually spent. Thus, the macroeconomic
difficulties had a negative impact on the Program and resulted in some activities being not, or
only partially, implemented. Overall, the intersectoral coordination, monitoring, and
management of the Program were weak.
VI.  PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY AND IMPLICATIONS FOR FUTURE OPERATIONS
34.   The HPSAP helped the Government, and more precisely the Ministry of Health, to
recognize the extent of the sector's problems and the necessity - of allocating adequate
resources to respond to the needs of the population. This recognition is reflected in the
Government's allocating, during the program implemenitation period, approximately 25
percent of the recurrent health budget to non-salary operating expenses. However, because of
resource constraints, the Government commitment failed to be respected in practice.
35.   The involvement of the communities in the financing of the sector has become a
reality and should be consolidated and expanded in the future. Even if, during the execution
of the Adjustment Program, the coordination mechanisms between the different agents and
partners (communities, NGO) did not function as envisaged, the presence of the latter in the
field remains active.
36.   The institutions established in the context of the I'rogram to coordinate interventions
in the sector and to regulate the activities of the central, regional, and prefectoral structures,
represent a framework which could be mobilized, provided that the political willingness
exists and that sufficient leadership is provided by the Ministries of Health, Economics,
Planning and Finance. What is needed is a clear and continuing commitment to hold periodic
meetings and the engagement of one service to assumn' an active role as secretary. The
program budgeting approach adopted in 1995 should assist the Ministry of Health to evaluate
needs, to establish priorities, and to allocate resources.



12
37.   Donor support to the health sector was coordinated at the time of Program preparation
but failed to be sustained during execution. During the period of socio-political strife, a
number of donors decided to leave the country. Those that remained intervened directly to
relieve suffering among the poorest segments of the population through the provision of
vaccines, medical supplies, and other essential drugs.
38.   The experience of the HPSAP has convinced the Government and IDA of the need to
try a new approach to health services delivery, focusing on the implementation of a package
of essential health services, the establishment of well managed district health teams, the
integration of the services provided within a district, the establishment of a system of referral
and counter-referral, the strengthening of supervisory and training activities, support to NGO
and other private health providers, and social mobilization of communities. The new
approach is expected to be pilot-tested in five districts in the next IDA-financed health
project. Examination of the reasons for low utilization of existing capacity will be needed.
As a result of the HPSAP experience, particular attention is planned to be given, under the
new operation, to establishment and operation of an adequate financial management system
for both dispensaries and district hospitals. This would aim to ensure that the use of cost-
recovery funds is effective and transparent, that there is adequate control of the cost-recovery
process, and that imprest accounts are established at the level of the districts and managed
adequately and efficiently. The mobilization of the population in support of their own health
services which took place during the HPSAP period should be considered an important step
forward, and be used as a building block for future projects in the sector.
39.   The HPSAP sought to address the problem of the penury of health personnel at the
periphery through the redeployment of staff. This proved very difficult to implement. Under
the new operation, the MH intends to handle the management of human resources at the
decentralized level, through local contracting of staff. As the decentralization of the health
system progresses, the role of the MH will need to change and more emphasis will need to
be given - as was intended under the HPSAP - to health policy formulation, standard setting,
supervision, monitoring and evaluation. IDA will help strengthen the MH to carry out these
responsibilities, but needs to be careful to avoid unintentionally stimulating efforts at
recentralization of responsibilities for service delivery under the guise of institutional
development.
VII. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
40.   The HPSAP was the first Bank-financed operation in the health sector in Togo. A
number of important lessons can be drawn from this experience:
a) The inadequacy of adjustment lending as a vehicle to address health sector issues and
long-term institutional development problems. An adjustment operation with its tranche
release mechanisms focuses the attention of decision-makers on one-time decisions, while the
health sector needs a sustained dialogue and more attention to sectoral rather than
macroeconomic issues. A series of investment operations would most probably have been



13
more adequate instruments for achieving the sound policy and institutional reform objectives
of the HPSAP.
b) The importance of country strategy and strategy coordination in cases of civil strife.
Greater consideration might have been given, for example, to cancellation of the second
through the fourth tranches of the SECAL, but work under way which led to the CFA
devaluation effectively precluded such action.
c) The importance of modesty and realism in reform programs in an institutionally weak
sector such as health. Reading over the Government's statement of health programs and
objectives, one cannot help but be struck by its excessively ambitious character, particularly
under an adjustment Program which was to be implemented in a four-year period.
d) The importance of identifying and involving key stakeholders. In a capacity building
effort it is important to understand who are the key stakeholders and who is involved in the
decision-making process. Excessive emphasis was placed on the formal reorganization of the
MH without taking into account that the MH had limited control over its own budget. The
role of communities as important stakeholders was not sufficiently taken into account under
the Program. Community participation was limited to cost recovery, while the Program
should have envisaged ways to further involve communities in the management of peripheral
health facilities.
e) The importance of ownership of the adjustment operation by the Borrower. Reforms of the
magnitude envisaged under the HPSAP need a long process of consensus building extending
from preparation through execution. It appears that not much consensus building took place
during preparation. Because of MH weakness, excessive use was made of consultants, with
the result that the HPSAP was never fully internalized. Indeed, its execution was beyond the
capacity of the Togolese civil service.
f) In an environment facing severe financial and human resource constraints, a phased
implementation reduces risks offailure. A phased approach, with a more modest start and a
greater focus on priorities, would have been more appropriate than the HPSAP in view of the
financial and human resources constraints faced by the country.
g) The importance of practical, operational decentralization. The Government realized at
the end of the Program that it needed to carry out an effective decentralization of the health
system and achieve effective community management of health services in order to overcome
the crisis affecting the health sector. Such decentralization would need to focus more than in
the past on effective utilization of health services by the affected population, rather than only
on their supply.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
HEALTH AND POPULATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(CR. 2211-TO)
PART 11: STASTISTICAL ANNEXES



15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial         Neglible        Not applicable
Macro Policies                                      El                El
Sector Policies                     EEl                                                 El 
Financial Objectives                E               El                                  E0
Institutional Development                           i                                   El
Physical Objectives                 a               o                oE
Poverty Reduction                   El                                El                El
Gender Issues                       i                :0
Other Social Objectives             E               E                                   El
Environmental Objectives            E                a                ol
Public Sector Management            E               E                                   E0
Private Sector Development                          E                 El
Other (specify)                     i               i                                   E0
B. Project Sustainability              Likely                   Jnlikely                 Uncertain
Ol                                                  El 
Highly
C. Bank Performane                      Satisfatorv           Satisfaetoy                 Deficient
Identification                      El                                                  E l
Preparation Assistance              E                        E3                         E
Appraisal                           E                                                   El
Supervision                         E                                                   El
Highly
D. Borrower Performane                  Satisfactory          Satisfactory               Deficient
Preparation                         I                                                   El 
Implementation                      E                        El
Covenant Compliance                 E                                                   El
Operation (if applicable)           E                                                   El
Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome                Satisfactory          Satisfactory               Deficient
O                        El 



16
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Credit            Purpose                                        Year of Approval   Status
Preceding Operations
Cr. 2174          Vocational Education Training                         1991        Ongoing
Cr. 2171          Power Rehabilitation                                 1991         Ongoing
Cr. 2018          Pre-Investment Project                               1989         Ongoing
Cr. 1993          Grassroots Development Initiative                    1989         Ongoing
Cr. 1929          Cotton Sector Development                            1988         Ongoing
Cr. 1861          Transportation Rehabilitation                        1988         Ongoing
Following Operations
Cr. 2849          ERAC (Economic Reform Adjustment Credit)             1996         Ongoing
Cr. 2752          Education                                            1995         Ongoing
Cr. 2620          Lome Urban Development                               1994         Ongoing
Cr. 2367          Togo/Benin Engineering                               1992         Ongoing



17
Table 3: Program Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                    Date Planned             Actual Date
Identification (Executive Project Summary)            February 1988           February 19, 1987
Preparation                                           January 1989            October 15, 1987
Appraisal                                             June 1990               June 27, 1990
Health and Social Sector Policy Statement                                     December 15, 1989
Negotiations                                          January 1991            January 14, 1991
| Board Presentation                                  February 26, 1991       February 28, 1991
Signing                                                                       March 18, 1991
Effectiveness                                         May 1991                March 31, 1992
First Tranche Release                                 May 31, 1991            March 31, 1992
Second Tranche Release                                April 28, 1992          May 31, 1994
Third Tranche Release                                 April 28, 1993          October 4, 1995
Fourth Tranche Release                                April 28, 1994          June 5, 1996
Credit Closing                                        June 3(, 1995           June 30, 1996
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97
Appraisal estimate                  4.00    4.00    4.00    2.20
Actual                              1.82    2.22    4.06    0.00    4.16    2.41
Actual as % of estimated            45.5    55.5    101.5  0.0
Date of final disbursement                       August 30,1996



Table 5: Policy Matrix of Anticipated Actions*: Planned and Actual
Policy Objectives    Measures: Action Area    Measures: Planned                                          Monitorable Actions:
Planned                    Timing                     Actual
Sector Management   Strengthen personnel        Institute in-service     Report on staff deployment and in-   Annually from     Report not received. Training began
capacities                 training program         service training                     1991             in February 1992; Deployment began
prior to March 1992.
Review progress on reorganization of    Second tranche  MSP reorganized as of February
the MSP                              (expected April    1992; prior to Tranche Release in
1992)            May 1994
Sector Financial     Improve sector financial   Institute better         Institute financial management and   Credit            Instituted as of January 1992
Management           Management and             budgeting, accounting,    accounting system                   Effectiveness     according to letter 89/92/MSPIDGS.
accountability             and financial control                                        (expected May      System was developed in early 1992
1991)            and was supposed to be tested in a
few health centers. However,
because of the political crisis, it was    cc
never fully implemented.
Institute a three-year  Review PIP for the sectors           Annually from     Done
rolling investment                                           1991 for each
budgeting process                                            tranche
Institute program       Prepare annual program budgets, review   Annually from  Done
budgeting               of level and composition with IDA;   1991 for each
rcview actual budgetary expenditures    tranche
for past year
Mobilize additional        Institute cost recovery  Establish mechanism for cost recovery    Second Tranche    Mechanism established prior to May
resources for sector       activities                                                   (expected April    1994.
operations                                                                               1992)
Monitoring and evaluation reports on  Annually from    First evaluation of cost recovery was
cost recovery                        1992              undertaken in 1995.
Promote private and     Legislative texts on NGO/Private Sector  1991          Private sector and NGO played a very
NGO participation in    participation in sector                                marginal role in the program.
service delivery
*Compiled from the Policy Matrix (Action Plan--Annex 2) of the Report and Recommendation of the President, January 23, 1991.



Policy Objectives    Measures: Action Area    Measures: Planned                                            Monitorable Actions:
Planned                     Timing                     Actual
Improve the coverage                             Maintain minimum core   Review of budgetary allocation for non-  Annually from   Budgetary allocations for non-wage
and quality of service                           of expenditures in the   wage expenses and for essential drugs    1991 for each  expenditures were undertaken,
sector                  (as part of the annual budget review  tranche           however, funds were not provided.
above)
Implementation of staffing plan for  From 1991         As of February 1992, Govemment
Regional Directorates                                  provided written evidence that all
Regional Directors had taken up their
functions.
Expanded Family Planning    Increase coverage and   Satisfactory report on execution of   Second tranche    Coverage increased through the
quality of Family       Family Planning and PHC               (expected April   intervention of USAID, UNFPA, and
Planning Services                                             1992)             IPPF. Contraceptive prevalence
increased from 4% to 9% in 1995.
Maintain regular supply of    Establish an essential  Review essential drugs list and     Annually from     Review done in February 1994; in
essential generic drugs    drug procurement         procurement practices                 1991              February 1995 agreement to earmark
capability                                                                      US$2 million of the Third Tranche
for Essential Drugs. Improved
procurement practices led to
substantial savings.
Promote increased use of   Intensify population and   Review health education program     Annually from     Not carried out.
upgraded services          health education         performance                           1991
Strengthen Primary Health    Establish diagnostic and   Therapeutic guidelines. Essential drugs   Januar 1991  Guidelines and lists completed in
Care                       prescription guidelines    lists                                                 January 1992
Rehabilitate rural      Beneficiarv evaluation                November 30,      Not carried out.
facilities and services                                       1993



Policy Objectives    Measures: Action Area    Measures: Planned                                               Monitorable Actions:
Planned                      Timing                      Actual
Upgrade staff performance    Institute a computerized    Implementation of Staff Deployment  Credit             Staff Deployment completed in
personnel management    Plan. Up-to-date personnel records and   Effectiveness     February 1992. System introdued
svstem                   defined functions                      (expected May      and Personnel records updated as of
1991)             Jul) 1992.
Train staff of Personnel    Reports on stafftraining            Annually from      Staff training took place primarily
Division and Kev                                                1992               through donor programs.
Program Managers and
supervisors
Institute regular in-    Report on in-service training and      Third tranche      Satisfactory progress made to meet
service training for staff   performance of statf              (expected April    Tranche Release condition.
in the sector                                                   1993)
CD



21
Table 6: Studies Included in the Program
Study                 Purpose as defined at              Status              Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
June 1995:        Proposal to restructure TOGOPHARMA as      Completed    Plan for restructuring proposed,
a national center for the supply of essential            including financing arrangements
generic drugs, under the proposed Health                arnd timeline. Analysis not used as
Project (FY98)                                          plan was dropped from proposed
project. A new drug purchasing
agency (CAMEEG) will be
established under a planned new
project as TOGOPHARMA will
undergo privatization.
Table 7A: Program Costs
Appraisal            Actual/Latest
Estimate (USSNI)    Estimate (US$M)
Category                                                (April 15, 1997)
1. Goods & Services                                                  11.11
2. Petroleum Products                                                 0.00
3. Refinancing of PPF 448                                             2.84
SA*-A BCEAO                                                           0.72
SA-P BIAO                                                             0.00
Total (for all categories)            14.2                           14.67
*Special Account
Table 7B: Program Financing
Appraisal Estimate                Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$M)                              (US$M)
Source              Local       Foreign      Total       Local      Foreign      Total
Costs       Costs                    Costs       Costs
IBRD/IDA                                                14.2                             14.672
Total                                                   14.2                             14.672



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
SELECTION NO.                   COVENANT                        STATUS                  COMMENTS                   ACTION TAKEN OR
OF                                                  C=ln Compliance                                              REQUIRED
CREDITILOAN                                               NC=Not In Comp.
AGREEMENT                                                 NYD=Not Yet Due
2.01 (b)           Make deposit into, and payments out of           C
the S.A. in accordance with DCA.
3.01 (a)           The Borrower and the Association shall           C
from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and
the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
3.01 (b)           Prior to each such exchange of views, the        C
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.              _
3.02               Except as the Association shall otherwise        C
agree, procurement of the goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3.03 (a)           The Borrower shall maintain or cause to          C
be maintained records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the expenditures financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
3.03 (b)(i)        The Borrower shall: (i) have the records         C
and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section, including those for the
Special Account, for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistenly applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the
Association.



I SELECTION NO.                  COVENANT                       STATUS                  COMMENTS                  ACTION TAKEN OR
OF                                                 C=In Compliance                                            REQUIRED
CREDIT/LOAN                                              NC=Not In Comp.
AGREEMENT                                               NYD=Not Yet Due                        .__..
3.03(b)            (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as     C
available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such
year, a certified copy of the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested;
3.03 (b)(iii)     (iii) furnish to the Association such other     C
information concerning said records and
accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
3.03 (c)           Maintain or cause to be maintained,            C
Records and accounts reflecting statement
of expenditures.
3.03 (c)(iii)      Enable the Association's representatives       C
to examine such records.
3.03 (c)(iv)       Ensure that such records and accounts are      C
included in the annual audit and that the
report of such audit contains a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
statement of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, had procedures and
internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support
the related withdrawals.
3.04               The Borrower shall carry out a survey of      NC           Togo's prolonged political and
the beneficiaries of health services to                    social turmoil prevented the
determine how they perceive the                            carrying out of the survey.
effectiveness of services being provided to
them and submit the results of said survey
to the Association by November 30, 1993.



24
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                 Planned                    Actual
Project Cycle
Staff        US$          Staff        US$
Weeks                     Weeks
('000)                    ('000)
Preparation to appraisal   Not Available  Not Available  36.1      64.3
Appraisal               Not Available  Not Available  73.8        142.3
Negotiation through     Not Available  Not Available  25.8         51.4
Board approval
Supervision                14.0         34.3          63.6        127.9
Completion                  10.0         15.2         10.6         14.3
TOTAL                                               199.3        400.2



25
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
rating
Stage of               Nmber  Days  Spcialized
project cycle  Month/  of        in     staff skills       Impl.    Dev.
Year    persns   field  reprsented          status    obj.  Types of Problems
Supervision
9/91        1       5    Sr. Pop/HIth Spec.  2        2
1/92        I       5    Sr. Pop/Hith Spec   2        2
11/93       3       3    Sr. Pop/Hlth Spec   4        4      Political and social upheaval
PHN Spec.
Mgmt. Spec.
2/94        1       3    Sr. Pop/Hlth Spec   3        3      Political and social upheaval, CFAF
devaluation
2/95        2       14   TL/PHN Spec        S         S      Previously agreed plans no longer
Pharm. Spec                        provided relevant guidance on
appropriate budgetary allocation.
5/95        3       6    TLUPHN Spec        U         S      Implementation of a number of project
Pharm. Spec.                       components could not be carried out
Physician                          or was insufficiently implemented.
11/95       4       16   TL/PHN Spec                         Need to prepare new medium-term
Pharm. Spec.                       financial framework for the sector.
2 Physicians     _
3/96        3       19   TL/PHN Spec        S         S
Pharm. Spec.
Physician                         _
Mid-Term      N/A
Evaluation 



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
HEALTH AND POPULATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(CR. 2211-TO)
APPENDIXES



Appendix A
REPUBLIQUE TOGOLAISE
PROJET D'AJUSTEMENT SECTORIEL SANTE ET POPULATION (CR. 2211-TO)
Mission de Preparation du Rapport d'Achevement du Projet
(Octobre 1996)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    En marge des travaux de preparation du Programme de Relance du Secteur de la Sante
(cf. Aide-Memoire separe du 25 Novembre 1996), une mission de la Banque Mondiale
comprenant Mme Bruna Vitagliano, Chef de Mission, et Monsieur Fily d'Almeida, Charge
d'Operations Principal A la Mission Residente a, du 28 au 30 Octobre 1996, eu des seances de
travail avec les autorites togolaises au sujet de la preparation du rapport d'achevement du projet,
conformement aux dispositions prevues en ce sens par I'Accord de Credit 221 I-TO. L'objectif
des discussions etait de faire le point sur 1'etat de preparation du rapport d'achevement A la
lumiere des informations fournies aux responsables togolais au cours de la mission de
supervision du Credit 221 1-TO de Fevrier-Mars 1996.
2.    La mission tient a remercier tous ceux qu'elle a rencontres dans le cadre de ses travaux,
en l'occurrence S.E. Monsieur le Ministre de la Sante et ses collaborateurs, les representants des
Ministeres du Plan et de I'Am6nagement du Territoire, de l'Economie et des Finances, et de la
BCEAO pour la collaboration dont elle a beneficie de leur part. Elle remercie egalement les
representants de la Mission Francaise de Cooperation, de l'OMS, de l'UNICEF, de l'Union
Europeenne, de la GTZ, des ONG Iles de Paix et Care International avec qui elle a eu des
echanges de vue tres fructueux.
Situation du Credit 2211-TO
3.    Conformement aux previsions, le Credit 221 1-TO a ete cl6ture par la Banque le 30 Juin
1996. Les demandes de retraits de fonds pour le decaissement de la 4eme tranche d'un montant
de 2,2 millions $EU ont ete soumises par la BCEAO avant la date de cl6ture. La mission a ete
informee par les responsables des ministeres de la Sante et des Finances et de la BCEAO, que
1'etat d'avancement des programmes appuyes par le credit ne pouvait pas permettre I'absorption
des fonds decaisses avant le 31 Decembre 1996. La mission a repondu que comme il s'agit d'un
appui au budget du Ministere de la Sante, it appartient aux autorites competentes togolaises de
trouver une solution A ce probleme sur la base des dispositions relatives au budget et A la



comptabilite publique en vigueur au Togo. La mission a neanmoins insiste sur l'obligation pour
le Gouvemement de transmettre un rapport d'audit final sur le compte special ouvert a la
BCEAO avant fin Decembre 1996.
Preparation du Rapport d'Achevement
4.    La mission a note que le Ministere de la Sante n'a pas produit de rapport provisoire
d'achevement contrairement a ce qui a et convenu au cours de la mission de Fevrier-Mars 1996.
Aussi, au cours d'une reunion pleniere organisee au Ministere de la Sante et reunissant les
representants du Gouvemement et les bailleurs de fonds, la mission a-t-elle reexplique a ses
interlocuteurs les objectifs du rapport d'achevement: il s'agit d'amrliorer la qualite des
operations financees par la Banque et de renforcer les capacites de l'emprunteur a concevoir et
executer des projets comme celui concerne. Plus specifiquement, pour ce qui conceme les projets
d'ajustement sectoriel, il s'agit d'evaluer les progres enregistres dans la mise en oeuvre des
mesures de politique et des refommes institutionnelles, et d'apprecier si les reformes sont
appropriees pour resoudre les problemes identifies. Le Gouvemement et la Banque doivent
preparer chacun de son c6te un tel rapport dont le contenu doit s'articuler autour des points ci-
apres: a)- presentation des objectifs ; b)- realisation des objectifs ; c)- facteurs essentiels ayant
affecte le projet ; d)- durabilite du projet ; e)- evaluation des performances de la Banque ; f)-
evaluation des performances de l'emprunteur; g)- evaluation des resultats enregistres ; h)- future
operation; i)- principales le,ons a tirer du projet.
5.    Le Ministere de la Sante a indique que toutes les informations et donnees necessaires ont
deja ete recueillies apres consultation et enquete sur le terrain. II revenait tout simplement a la
Cellule de Coordination du projet de les compiler et de mettre en forrne le rapport. Compte tenu
du retard considerable enregistre par rapport au dMlai fixe dans I'Accord de Credit, la mission a
suggere qu'une equipe technique de 3 membres comprenant des representants des ministeres de
la Sante, de l'Economie et du Plan soit mise sur pied pour assister la Cellule de Coordination du
projet dans la production du rapport provisoire qui devra etre soumis a l'IDA pour commentaires
avant finalisation. II a ete convenu de commun accord que l'equipe en charge produira un
document de 10 pages qui devra etre transmis a l'IDA pour observations le 12 Decembre 1996 au
plus tard. L'IDA devra faire parvenir ses observations au Gouvemement avant le 20 Decembre
1996 pour permettre a celui-ci de finaliser le rapport et de le transmettre i l'IDA le 30 D6cembre
au plus tard.
6.    Le Ministre de la Sante, a qui la mission a fait part de ses preoccupations, a promis de
suivre personnellement la redaction du rapport pour assurer qu'il soit transmis dans les delais
convenus. II a tenu a remercier la Banque pour la disponibilite dont elle a fait preuve dans les
discussions et souhaite que le retard enregistre par son departement n'affecte point le rythme de
preparation du nouveau programme de relance du secteur de la sante.



i. Appendix B
Summary of the Government's Report on
Program Implementation--Credit 2211-TO
According to the Government's report, there were both internal and external
factors which affected the outcome of the project. Internal factors included coordination
and execution units (CTCS, CTD) which never played an active role in the
implementation of the project, and the delays and lack of qualified personnel in the
coordination secretariat. In addition, a lack of required guiding principles, including
delegation of authority and inadequate means, coupled with resistance to change, resulted
in not fully achieving decentralization. Personnel problems, including a shortage of
qualified personnel, especially in management and accounting, greatly affected the
project's execution.   This lack of accounting professionals has prevented the
implementation of the new decentralized central accounting system. The management
tools in the health centers are hardly used, if at all, which has cleared the way for
irregularities due to a lack of supervision. In order to sustain the system, a solution to this
problem must be found quickly. Finally, a solution to the medical stock problem must be
found in order to stop the frequent stock shortages.
External factors also played a role in the slow execution of the project. One of
these factors is the persistent economic crisis, which was further aggravated by the
January 1994 devaluation of the CFAF. Additionally, the socio-political crisis which
paralyzed the administration, slowed the project's implementation and again plunged the
sector into an emergency situation. As a result, the project objectives were reviewed and
modified in December 1994, and a large part of the credit was earmarked for vaccines and
medications in order to maintain coverage, and curative and preventative services.
Finally, in order to overcome the problem of a personnel shortage, a portion of the credit
was used to recruit contractual personnel. The Government report insists the project's
activities will be maintained, and that cost recovery was the most successful of the
project's activities. Cost recovery allowed for a rapid implementation of a new
community finance policy, and acts as a means of guaranteeing improved quality and
ensuring sustainability.
Several lessons can be learned from this project:
* Politico-administrative decentralization is necessary to allow for improved
functioning of the health sector and especially the health districts.
* Personnel shortages in the sector are a serious handicap which slows the
implementation of reforms and hinders the realization of certain objectives.
* Improved budgetary and accountability practices have led to better budgeting and
activities management.
* The sector needs the Government to be pro-active with regard to policy-making.
* Simplified administrative procedures, especially with regard to procurement
procedures, would eliminate the administrative red tape and facilitate decision
making.
The full French text is available, upon request, from the Africa Information Services Center of the World
Bank.



MATRIX OF HEALTH PROGRAM TARGETS
PROGRAM*                                  OBJECTIVE*                                           STATUS
Maternal and Child Health Care,    Reduce the maternal mortality rate from 500 to 250 per    Only pre-crisis statistics are available, so it is impossible
Family Planning, and Nutrition     100,000 live births, by 1995.                     to provide a quantitative assessment. Some training was
Reduce instances of anemia among pregnant women   provided to healthworkers to improve their handling of
from 46% to 10%, by 1995.                         deliveries, referral for prenatal care, tetanus
immunization, handling of risk cases, etc. However,
Improve the quality and increase the frequency of  indicators of maternal mortality and morbidity have not
monitoring of pregnancies for 70% of expectant mothers,  improved and there is anedoctal evidence that the
by 1995.                                          situation may have worsened following the three years of
Provide better delivery and postpartum care for 40% of    political/social turmoil.
mothers, by 1995.
Increase the use of modem contraceptive methods from    Use of modern contraceptive methods increased from 4%
5% to 15%, by 1995.                               in 1990 to 9% in 1995. About 50% of health facilities
currently provide FP services. The Government has
integrated STD and AIDS control into the MCH and FP
program and is currently preparing a national
reproductive health program.
Promote proper nutrition from 50% of children up to age   Current data on child nutrition are unavailable, however,
5, and monitor their physical development.        child malnutrition appears to have worsened with the
Reduce the prevalence of protein-calorie deficiencies  sharp deterioration of the economy.
among children up to age 5 from 25% to 20%, by 1995.
Reduce the manifestations of severe nutritional
deficiencies, by 1994, and the physical deformities they
cause, by 1999.
Evaluate the prevalence of vitamin A deficiency and
develop a program to eliminate this endemic problem.
Study the different causes of acute respiratory infections   Activities undertaken include: training of health workers,
(19991) as a step toward selecting appropriate treatments,  epidemiological surveys in two districts, purchase of 100
by 1995.                                          stethoscopes, rehabilitation of the building housing the
program, and purchase of a vehicle for the program.
Reduce the mortality rate from diarrheal diseases by  500,000 ORS packets were distributed to dispensaries in
70%, by 1995.                                     1995. Efforts were made to improve epidemiological
surveillance. No impact on indicators was found.
*Compiled from the Health and Social Sector Policy Statement (Annex 1(b)) of the Report and Recommendation of the President, January 23, 1991.
Appendix C



2
PROGRAM                                    OBJECTIVE                                              STATUS
Maternal and Child Health Care,     Increase vaccination coverage (measles, diphtheria,  Vaccination coverage is now estimated to be down to
Family Planning, and Nutrition      tetanus, poliomyelitis, pertussis, and tuberculosis) from  40% due to a lack of vaccines.
(continued)                         52% to 90%, by 1994.
Increase vaccination coverage of women of childbearing
age from 62% to 90%/o, by 1994.
School and University Health        Set up a system for monitoring the prevalence of diseases  Activities carried out include: (i) survey of the health
Program                             in schools and universities.                        situation in schools; and (ii) the situation of vaccination
Set up a system for the annual checking of the health of   in 16 schools.
4,000 children attending pre-school establishments.
Train 27 prefectural medical directors, 123 inspectors,
1,000 teachers, 6 medical assistants, 94 nurses, 39 social.
workers, and 39 hygiene workers by providing two
seminars per year.
Evaluate the epidemiological situation in schools in 1992.
Malaria Control Program             Reinforce malaria control measures as part of the primary  Current data on malaria incidence and treatment are
health care delivery system by increasing access to  unavailable. Local manufacturing of bednets started in
diagnosis and to early and appropriate treatment from  1995. A center for bednet impregnation was set up in
33% to 70% of sufferers, by 1995.                  Lome in 1995. Laboratory materials and drugs were
Reduce severe cases, complications and the mortality rate  purchased for the program. A number of IEC activities
from malaria, particularly among children up to age 5  were launched via radio, TV, and seminars.
and pregnant women by 50%, by 1995.
Campaign against TB and Other       Increase the number of patients in treatment from 500 a    Training of mobile teams was carried out from 1992-95.
Respiratory Diseases                year to 3,000, over the 1991-1994 period.           140 doctors, 170 nurses, and 50 laboratory technicians
Reduce the rate of abandonment of treatment by 25%, by  were trained. 1,137 new cases of TB and 1,300 cases of
1994.                                              leprosy were identified during the period 1992-94. Other
data are unavailable.
Improve the compilation statistics on the 2,000 patients
who are in treatment.
Reduce the manifestations of severe deficiencies and the
resulting abnormalities by 50%, by 1995.
Appendix C



3
PROGRAM                                     OBJECTIVE                                              STATUS
Program to Control Sexually         Inform, sensitize, and educate the population regarding    Intensive IEC campaigns were launched with donor
Transmitted Diseases and AIDS       their adoption of behaviors likely to reduce sexually  financing. Epidemiological surveillance has been
transmitted diseases and AIDS.                      intensified. Materials, condoms, etc. cover about 50% of
Prevent the transmission of HIV through blood       the need. Blood screening to aid in the prevention of
transfusions.                                       transmission of HIV through blood transfusion has
reached 50%. 350 social workers and teachers were
Provide care for individuals testing HIV+.          trained to provide HIV/AIDS counseling.
Provide counseling for family members of persons with
AIDS.
Incorporate measures for the control of sexually    Major constraints to this measure are the extreme
transmitted diseases and AIDS into the primary health  weakness of the health care system, and its lack of human
care delivery system.                               and material resources.
Improve knowledge of the epidemiological situation in    Epidemiological surveys have been carried out and a
this field and set up a system of epidemiological research.  surveillance system for risk groups has been put in place.
Provide training for health and social sector personnel  This has improved knowledge of HIV prevalence in the
employed in the campaign against sexually transmitted  country.
diseases and AIDS.
Dental and Oral Health Program       Evaluate the prevalence of dental caries and periodontal   The preparation for an epidemiological survey was
diseases and identify the major causes.             completed (sampling undertaken, questionnaire
completed, and material for survey acquired). Insufficient
financial resources prevented carrying out the prevalence
survey. Existing dental services have received some
material and equipment. An IEC document has also been
finalized.
Design and institute a dental and oral health policy  This program as well as other programs listed in this
(1991).                                             matrix have suffered considerably from a lack of
Increase accessibility to and availability of dental  resources. Executed as vertical programs, they depend
services.                                           almost exclusively on donor assistance.
Sensitize the population to the need for dental and oral
hygiene.
Increase the number of dental consultations from 50,000   This has not been achieved.
to 175,000 by 1995.
Create 15 dental clinics at prefecture level by 1994.  2 new dental services were opened at the prefectoral
(district) level.
Appendix C



4
PROGRAM                                   OBJECTIVE                                            STATUS
Campaign against Onchocerciasis    Break the onchocerciases transmission chain with   Onchocerciasis is receiving attention from the
ivermectin                                        international community. Surveillance, treatment, and the
Train four physicians and 10 nurses in the specialty of    fight against the vector continue satisfactorily.
ophthalmology, by 1994.                           Devolution - enlarged to trypanosomiasis and guinea
,                          ~~~~~~~~~~worm - receives limited support.
Retrain nurses and midwives in using--and providing
instruction in the use of--preventive care against eye
diseases.
Reduce the current prevalence rates of blindness due to
neonatal conjunctivitis by 50%.
Provide systematic antiseptic treatment of all newborns,
beginning in 1991.
Campaign against Cardiovascular    Evaluate the general prevalence of cardiovascular  Support received for this program has allowed
Diseases                           diseases in the population at large (1991-1992).  identification of major cardiovascular diseases in the
Propose a plan for a campaign against complications  country, evaluation of the prevalence of cardiovascular
from cardiovascular pathology.                    diseases, acquisition of diagnostic and treatment
materials, and preparation of a national policy for
I addressing cardiovascular diseases.
Environmental Sanitation           Test the quality of water obtained from all locally used    No activity appears to have been undertaken in this area.
sources so that appropriate steps can be taken where they
are unsafe.
Begin setting up trash removal systems in the country's
four major urban areas.
Community Development Program      Strengthen 1,500 existing CVDs (Village Development    1,500 CVD have been strengthened through training.
Committees) in 1991.                              About 2,880 new CVDs have been established and 300
Promote the creation of 2,880 new CVD.            trainers in community development have been trained.
Train 300 Community Development Trainers.         Village production groups have received support and
access to appropriate technology. Institutional capacity
Create groupings/associations for production purposes    for community development has been strengthened.
and use of appropriate kinds of technology.
Literacy and Adult Education       Set up centers at CVD level.                      Literacy activities have been carried out and 300 new
Program                                                                              literacy centers have been established.
Appendix C



5
PROGRAM                                   OBJECTIVE                                            STATUS
Juvenile Support Program           Provide educational programs to assist minors with  810 youngsters have been assisted under this program
behavioral problems in re-entering the mainstream of  and 1,325 youngsters who received training in crafts have
education and production.                         been assisted in their search for a job.
Educate young people for family life.
Integration of Women in            Increase women's participation in development by   The General Directorate for Promotion of Women carried
Development                        creating a social and cultural environment that    out a decentralization of its activities and strengthened
encourages them to broaden their horizons and look  their management and coordination at the regional and
outside their usual environment.                  district levels. An effort has been made to improve the
Promote access for women to the means of production for economic and legal situation of young women in rural
crop growing, livestock raising, and artisanal activities.   areas.
Increase women's productivity.                    Most of the activities expected to be carried out with
support of the IDA Credit have only partially
Reduce the illiteracy rate among women from 71% to  materialized.
65% by 1995.
Provide advisory/supervisory services for rural women.
Ensure that all development projects include a women's
development component.
Educate women and couples to make more active use of
family planning services in the interests of lower mother
and infant mortality rates, birth spacing, and he welfare
of both women and the family.
Alleviate the burden of domestic chores.
Provide greater access for women to formal and informal
training at all levels.
Provide training for women heads of
groupings/associations in the management of
development activities and ensure their access to
advisory/supervisory services.
Improve the compilation of statistics on women.
Provide training for urban women in business
management so that they are better equipped to run
income-generating activities.
Appendix C



6
PROGRAM                                   OBJECTIVE                                            STATUS
Essential Generic Drugs Program    Reorganize and streamline the system by which essential  Considerable action has been carried out in this area. The
pharnaceutical goods are supplied, by 1993.       1929 pharmaceutical legislation was revised to take into
Ensure that essential generic drugs are permanently  account the procurement of essential generic drugs. A
available at the lowest possible cost from all publicly-run  pharmaceutical policy was also prepared with the support
health facilities, by 1994.                       of IDA and WHO. A proposal to restructure
TOGOPHARMA has been dropped, and the Government
Decentralize the essential drugs distribution, warehousing  has instead agreed to establish a new purchasing agency
and control system, down to the community level (1991-  for essential generic drugs. A draft statute of this new
1993).                                            agency, based on a partnership among interested parties--
Improve inventory management and introduce an     the government, the donors, and the communities--has
inventory replenishment system, by 1993.          been prepared and has received the comments of IDA and
other donors. About US$3 million of the IDA funds
under the adjustment Credit were used to purchase
essential generic drugs.
Cost Recovery Program              Design, test and evaluate a cost-recovery system in  Cost recovery has been carried out with support of both
publicly-run health facilities, 1991-1993.        the IDA-financed operation and UNICEF's Bamako
Institute user participation n the financing of recurrent    Initiative. It is now effective in about 80% of health
costs, 1991-1993.                                 facilities. Funds collected through cost recovery have
allowed peripheral health facilities to continue their
Increase the flow of financial resources to the sector so    activities during the prolonged crisis.
that better health coverage will be available from the
beginning of 1993.
Sensitization, Education, and      Sensitize the population to the need for prevention of  There is no comprehensive IEC strategy for health in the
Information                        transmittable disease, 1991-1994.                  country. IEC activities have been limited to FP and
Educate the population in prevention methods, 1991-  HIV/AIDS control; weaknesses in donor cooperation
1994.                                             have limited other IEC activities. A national Health
Promote community health, particularly in nttalandperiEducation Service has been established but is very weak.
Promote community health, particularly in rural and peri-
urban areas, 1991-1994.
Promote better utilization of healti services and family
planning throughout the population, 1991-1994.
Design and prepare activities to educate young people for
family life, 1991-1994.
Arrange for participation by NGO in the national family
planning program (continuing).
Appendix C



7
PROGRAM                                   OBJECTIVE                                            STATUS
Sensitization, Education, and      Support health ad social sector programs with      No activity appears to have been undertaken in this area.
Information (continued)            sensitization and education activities focused on health
and social matters (continuing).
Develop sensitization and education materials for use by
the various service departmnents of the Ministry of Public
Health (continuing).
Strengthen the capacity of the National Health Education
Service to provide better education for the population in
health, social and family planning matters (continuing).
Collaborate with the Ministry of Information in
sensitizing community groups to the goals, strategies and
programs associated with the national population policy
(continuing).
Institutional Reform Program       Rehabilitation of health infrastructure (dispensaries,  Rehabilitation, thanks to donor assistance, took place in
medico-social centers, prefecture hospitals, and regional  the following regions: Plateau (French Cooperation),
hospital centers)                                 Central (KfW-GTZ), and Maritime (GTZ and religious
missions). However, rehabilitation on the scale
envisaged under the program was limited due to financial
resource constraints, as most donors pulled out of Togo
during the politicalfinancial crisis.
Restructuring of the headquarters and regional    Partly carried out.
departments of the Ministry of Health, in accordance with
the new organization chart approved
Establishment of a National Maintenance and Repair  A component of the AfDB project, it was not carried out
Service, as per the new Ministry of Health organization    as AfDB suspended financing for almost 4 years.
chart
Strengthening of planning/programming/coordination  Not carried out because of lack of financial and human
activities throughout the health and social field  resources.
(recruitment/training of planning specialists, creation of a
technical conrmittee consisting of department heads and
of a technical committee for program coordination and
I monitoring
Appendix C



8
PROGRAM                                    OBJECTIVE                                              STATUS
Institutional Reform Program        Strengthening of financial management               Not carried out because of lack of human resources.
(continued)                         (recruitment/training of technical specialist, 1991-1993,
and introduction of a cost and stock accounting system.
Strengthening of personnel management and          Not carried out because of lack of human resources.
enhancement of capabilities (introduction of a personnel
management system and training programming measures)
Appendix C



TOGO HEALTH AND POPULATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
HEALTH AND POPULATION SECTOR EXPENDITURES, 1990-1996
(in Millions of Current FCFA)
1990            1991                    1992                    1993                    1994                 1995          1996
Actual  Actual Budget   PR    Actual Budget   PR    Actual Budget   PR    Actual Budget   PR    Actual  Budget  Budget
Governmental Financing
I MSP/MASCF Recurrent Expenditures          4,785   4,996   4,871   5,933   4,323   5,156   6,348   2,191   3,096   6,856   6,399  6,663   7,397    6,194    6,593      7,010
2 MSP/MASCF Investment Expenditures           475    212    259   1,345         0      0   1,446     127    225    1,554       93    239   1,671       936    1,107       701
Total Govemnient effort                   5,260   5.208   5,130   -,278  4.323   5.156   , _94   2,31-  3.32)   8,410   6,492  6,901   9,068        ,130    '          7_-
Non-Governmental Financing a/
4 IDA                                         311      88    838   1,200   1,434   1,534   1,200    229    712   1,200    1,752  2,687        600    2,349    2,352     1,205
5 Other Donors                                402     158   1,800   4,174      1 1   2,491   5,108     0   2,113    2,603   2,400  3,759   2,067    4,333    5,300      5,357
Total Non-Go'ernmnental Financing           -12    246   2,638   5.3-4  1,445   4.025   6,308    229   2,825   3.803   4.152  6,446   2,66         6.682    ,652      6,562
Total Public Sector Expenditures for
Health and Population                     5,973   5,453   7,768  12,652   5,768   9,181  14,102   2,546   6,146   12,213  10,644 13,348  11,735   13,812   15,351    14,272
Ratio&
IDA Finartcing/Total Expenditures           5%      2%     11%      9%    25%    17%        9%      9%    12%      10%      16%    20%      5%      17%      15%        8%
OtherDonorsFinancing/TotalExpenditures      7%      3%    23%    33%        0%    27%      36%      0%    34%      21%     23%    28%    1%        31%      35%       38%
Governmental Financing/Total Expenditures  88%    95%    66%    58%    75%    56%          55%     91%    54%      695'.   61%    52%      77%      52%      50%1      54%
n.a. = not available
PR = President's Report No. P-5395-TO-Health and Population Sector Adjustmnent Programr as designed.
at Resources from cost recovery were programmed for 1992-1994 at 260 million FCFA, 669 million FCFA, 1,089 million FCFA, respectively.
Actual resources from cost recovery have been estimated at about 800 million FCFA for the period 1991-1995.
Source: Presidents Report No. P-5395-TO of January 23, 1991 and Togo: Public Expenditurea Review, Febtuary 1997.
Ministgre de la Santc Ervalwation des activitrs de soins, de gestion et definancemnent comninoataire. Aoiit 1996.
Appendix D



I



IMAGING
Report No.:          16781
Type:      ICR



