Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RepotNo. P-5395-TO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 10.2 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TOGO
FOR A POPULATION AND HEALTH SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
JANUARY 23, 1991
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank au_torization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           e           CFA Franc (CFAP)
US$ 1                   -           CFAF 260 (January
1991)
CFAF 1 Million          -           US$3846
SDR 1                               USS1.4035
MEASURES
lI m                .O9 yd.
1 m2        -     10.76 sq. ft.
I km2       -      0.38 sq. mi.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
MSP         Ministry of Public Health
HASCF       Ministry of Social and Women's Affairs
MCH1FP      Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning Services
UNFPA       United Nations Fund for Population Activities
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
IPPF        International Planned Parenthood Federation
TOGOPHARMA Office National de la Pharmacie
PHC         Primary Health Cere
GTZ         German Technical Cooperation
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
CTCS        Comite Technique de Coordination et de Suivi,
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
EC          European Community
AfDB        African Development Bank
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
CTDIMSP     Comite Technique des Directeurs, Ministere de la Sante
Publique
PIP         Public Investment Program
PP          Family Planning
EPI         Expanded Program of Immunization
IEC         Information, Education and Communication
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



REPUBLIC OF TOGO                 FOR OFFICVIL USE ONLY
POPULATION AND HEALTH SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
CREDIT SUMMARY .      ................................. * ............  i
PART I. THE COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE
STRATEGY .........................................   .. 1
A.  Backgroundc k g rd.... ....  .  1
B.    Adjustment Processr          o      c      e      ss.. . .... . ...... .... 2
C.    Central Development Issues          ...                         7
D.  Bank Group Operations ...                                         9
E.    Country Lending Strategy and Priorities   ...11
F.    Criteria for Evaluating Progress         ......      ..        13
G.    Aid Coordination and Relations with the IMF  ..                13
H.  Summary Assessment. . . . 14
PART II.  THE POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR ........ 16
A.    Population, Health and Nutrition Profile          ..  16
B.    Population, Health and Nutrition Services .17
C.  Sector Financei ne..... 20
D.    Major Constraints to Sector Performance .21
a.    Inadequately articulated priorities and
strategic frameworka m ek...                           21
b.    Inadequate management and organization                  22
C.    Financial constraints         .......      .. 22
d.    Structural constraints at the service
delivery level. . . . . . .... ............ O... 23
e.  Human resource constraints .23
PART III.  THE GOVERNMENT'S SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ....... . 24
A.    Rationale for a Population and Health Sector Adjustment
Program............ 24
B.    The Government's Population and Health Sector
Adjustment Program .24
C.    Goals and Nature of the Reform Program .25
D.    Specific Measures in the Action Plan           .    .26
a.    Measures to improve the national policy and
strategic framework.                                   26
b.    Measures to strengthen general sector management. 27
c.    Measures to strengthen sector financial
management         ... .. ..                     .. . 28
d.    Reforms to improve the service delivery system... 29
e.    Measures to strengthen personnel performance
management.....                                          32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



E.    Costs and Impact of the Proposed Program ............... 32
PART IV.  THE CREDIT ...................                     . 34
A.    Rationale for IDA  nv        olvement  34
B.    Objective and Description of Sector Adjustment
Creir.......................... 35
C.    Program, Financing and Allocation of Credit Proceeds... 35
D.    Review of the Programo            g     r     am.. ................  36
E.    Linkages to Overall Macro-economic Adjustme nt........ 38
F.    Implementation of the Program......................... 38
PART V.  BENEFITS, RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT ................ 41
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION .....      ..     . ..9 .... ...... ###. 42
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
Which visited Togo in June-July 1990, comprising Messrs/Mme. Michael
Azefor (Population and Health Specialist), Mission Leader; Loso Boya
(Project Officer), who reviewed government procurement practices and
sector investment program; Jean Leconte (Physician), Sector Organization
Consultant who appraised the sector policy statements, the sector
reorganization program and technical service delivery aspects; Susanne
Bocoum, (Physician), consultant, who reviewed the MCH/FP, comonity and
vomen in development programs; and Gilles DesRochers (Sector
Economist/Financial Analyst), consultant who reviewed budgetary
estimates and program costs. Mrs. Ishrat Husain, Division Chief, AFTPN,
was the lead Advisor. Messrs. Robert Blake (Country Economist, AFlCO)
and Mpoy-Kamulayi, Senior Counsel, LEGAF), assisted in the preparation
of the credit documentation and negotiations. Messrs. Michel Palein and
Michael Gillette are the managing Division Chief and the Department
Director, respectively for the operation.



- i -
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
POPULATION AND HEALTH SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrowers         Republic of Togo
Beneficiary:      Ministry of Public Health (MSP) and Ministry of Social
and Women's Affairs (MASCF).
Credit Amount:    IDA Credit SDR 10.2 million (US$14.2 million
equivalent) to be disbursed in four tranch.s.
Terms:            Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.
Credit            'he credit would support the implementation of a
Desc:iptions      comprehensive package of sector policy reforms in the
area of population and health aimed at assuring a
satisfactory level of primary health care and family
planning services to the population, especially in
rural areas. It would address in the short to medium
term, pervasive morbidity and mortality resulting from
inadequate treatment and prevention of tropical
communicable and parasitic diseases and would increase
current use of family planning services among couples.
The Credit would help the Government achieve these
results by providing balance of payment support; the
resulting counterpart funds will be used over 4 years
for (a) instituting better sector planning; (b)
reforming institutional deficiencies within MSP and at
regional levels; (c) improving personnel and financial
management in the sector; and (d) instituting cost
recovery and improving beneficiary participation in
management of services.
Specifically, reforms incorporated in the operation
would effect a transformation of the Health Sector and
the Government's population activities through policy
measures geared to address prevailing key sector
systemic constraints. It would (i) launch the
Gevernment's new population policy by expanding family
planning services, supporting NGO activities in family
planning and creating greater awareness of
availability and use of services; and (ii) reverse the
deterioration in the quality of basic health care
services and gradually increase their accessibility to
the general population particularly in rural areas and
for the most deprived groups. Specifically, the
Program would (a) integrate family planning into
expanded primary health care activities;



- ii -
(b) strengthen institutional capabilities in (i)
planning and programming, (ii) budgeting, financial
management and cost recovery, and (iii) sector
coordination; (c) rehabilitate, re-equip and provide
adequate operating expenses for operating existing
facilities and (d) redeploy, train, and improve the
productivity and efficiency of technical and
management staff
Benefits and      Benefits.  Overall, the Program would significantly
risks:            contribute to improving the well being and
productivity of the Togolese population by introducing
major improvements in health service delivery and
their accessibility to disadvantaged groups,
particularly women and children. It would also tackle
the problem of rapid population growth with its
daunting implications for future economic development.
First, it would increase public awareness of the need
to address the population problem arid would make
family planning services more accessible to couples in
all regions of the country. Improved MCH services
would contribute to reduce maternal mortality and
morbidity as pre-post-natal and delivery care,
especially in rural areas become more available.
Second, the coverage and quality of curative services
would be improved especially for rural women and
children, and disease prevention would acquire new
momentum. Third, an important systematic benefit
would be a major improvement in the operating
efficiency of the system, including strengthened
sector management, improved resource allocation and
budgetary procedures, decentralization and staff
redeployment, and domestic resource mobilization
through cost recovery. The groundwork would also be
set for and improved aid coordination.
Risks and risk management. Three risks are associated
with this operation. First, Government commitment may
wane as it begins to implement measures agreed upon
with IDA. This risk would be minimal at the beginning
owing to the national consensus, achieved during
preparation of the sector policy. The inter-
ministerial program monitoring committee (CTCS) would
ensure continaed adherence to and timely
implementation of the Action Plan, through periodic
reviews. Specific SAL conditionalities have been
retained to ensure Government-wide compliance with
critical measures to be carried out during the
initiation period of these reforms. In addition,
tranche conditionality would provide an effective
continuing vehicle for monitoring the level of
Government commitment and ensuring that actions agreed
upon are carried out. Second, Government may lack the



- iii -
capacity to implement the program. Frequent reviews
with CTCS would ensure that the Governiment makes full
use of all the instruments designed to minimize this
risk. A number of institutional measures, including
the streamlining of MSP structures and unit functions,
would be carrJed out. Staff capacity would be
strengthened through on-the-job and specialized
training and through the selective use of technical
assistance support. Initial and annual programming
workshops and monitoring activities by IDA would
further minimize this risk. Third, poor macro-
performance may affect the level of resources allotted
to the sector or may interfere with rroposed reforms.
To manage this situation, appropriate conditionality
would link IDA support to the sector to continued
satisfactory macroeconomic management. Furthermore,
strong donor commitment to Togo's macro-econouic
development and sector program would provide the
overall support the country would need as a result of
the current austere budgetary situation.
Economic rate     Not applicable
of return:
Map No:           22720



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 10.2 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TOGO FOR A
POPULATION AND HEALTH SECTOP. ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
---------------------------------------------------
1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of SDR 10.2 million (US$14.2 million equivalent); to
help finance a population and health sector adjustment program.
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A.      Background
2.          Located on the Gulf of Guinea in Western Africa, Togo is a
mall country (57,000 square kilometers with a population of 3.4
million), relatively well-endowed in terms of agricultural and mineral
resources. Roughly 80 percent of the population derives its income from
agriculture which is based on food crops and the production of cash
crops (cotton, coffee, and cocoa) for export. Togo's mineral output
consists almost entirely of phosphate rock for export. The Togolese
economy also features an active commercial sector. With a well-
developed highway network and road system, linking its capital and
principal port, Lome, with neighboring countries (Benin, Ghana, and
Burkina Faso), and a well-managed banking system, Togo plays an
important role as a regional trading and financial center. In spite of
these advantages Togo remains, however, a relatively poor country, with
GDP per capita estimated at US$ 390 in 1989.
3.          With phosphate production the main source of growth and
government receipts, the Togolese economy experienced positive rates of
growth (averaging 6.4 percent per year) for a decade and a half through
the early 1970s. With the quadrupling of phosphate prices in late 1974,
and the subsequent near doubling of budget revenue in 1975, the
Government initiated an ambitious development strategy, aimed at rapid
industrialization and modernization of the economy. The chief features
of this strategy were sharply higher levels of public sector investment
and the creation of a wide variety of state enterprises in the secondary
sector. An integral part of this strategy was extensive reliance on
administrative controls, such as quantitative restrictions on imports
and exports and government price setting. This was most notably the
case in the agricultural sector, where the pricing policies of the
government agency responsible for the marketing of export crops, the
Office des Produits Agricoles Togolais (OPAT), imposed a heavy degree of
implicit taxation on producers of cash crops, discouraging domestic
production.
4.          While the phosphate boom proved of short duration, it was
followed in 1975-76 by the run up in coffee and cocoa prices. To



-2-
sustain its high level of spending, the Government also began relying on
external finance, increasingly on commercial terms. In 1978 total
investment was an extraordinary 46 percent of GDP. However, by the late
1970s, with the declines in phosphate, coffee and cocoa prices, Togo's
financial situation worsened significantly and it began incurring
external payments arrears. More importantly, the Government's efforts
to promote rapid industrialization through creation of state enterprises
and higher levels of Government spending had not given rise to
commensurate increases in economic capacity. As a result, Togo entered
the 1980s with a sharply higher external indebtedness, internal and
external macroeconomic disequilibria, and an economy saddled with
numerous structural rigidities which inhibited domestic production.
B.          Adiustment Process
5.          The Government first began to address seriously its economic
problems in 1983, under a series of structural adjustment programs
supported by the Bank and the Fund. As part of its Fund-supported
stabilization efforts, the Government was able to reduce significantly
its budget and current account deficits. Through a policy of tight
control on expenditures, the ratio of the fiscal deficit (exclusive of
grants) to GDP fell from 8.7 percent in 1982 to 6.2 percent in 1985.
Concurrently, the current account deficit (exclusive of grants) was also
sharply reduced as a percentage of GDP, declining from 18.7 percent in
1982 to 13.9 percent in 1985. In parallel with these macroeconomic
efforts, the Government also engaged in a series of structural reforms,
supported by IDA with structural adjustment credits in June 1983 (SAL I)
and in May 1985 (SAL II). A principal objective of this structural
reform effort was the enhancement of agricultural incomes and incentives
through increases in producer prices for the main cash crops. Between
the 1983/84 and the 1986/87 crop years, prices for Togo's three
principal export crops -- coffee, cocoa, and cotton -- were raised in
real terms by 29, 20 and 25 percent respectively. Under SAL I and II
important progress was also made in liberalizing food grain marketing
and in disengaging the State from commercial and industrial activity.
In the course of these programs, nineteen enterprises were closed or
privatized out of an original public portfolio of 73 enterprises. In
addition, a system of rolling three-year investment plans was initiated
to improve the quality and flexibility of Government investment
programming. As part of this effort, public investments were
concentrated on directly productive activities; i.e., rural development
and infrastructure.
6.          The effect of these macroeconomic and structural measures
was to reverse the negative trend in real GDP growth. During the 1984-
86 period, real growth averaged 2.5 percent per year compared with the
- 1.7 percent per year growth experienced during 1980-83. However, this
effort was interrupted in 1986 and 1987 when a combination of
unfavorable external terms of trade developments and large overruns in
government spending led to a significant deterioration in Togo's
external and internal situations. To address this situation, the
Government renewed, beginning in 1987, its efforts at macroeconomic and
structural reform. Its strategy in this regard was set out in its Third
Structural Adjustment Program which had as its overall objective the
achievement of a sustained rate of growth of 5 percent per year by the
mid-1990s. IMF support for this effort was provided through standby and



-3-
SAF arrangements approved in March 1988 and an ESAF arrangement approved
in May 1989. IDA support occurred through a Third Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAL III) approved in March 1988.
7.          With the Government's internal revenue effort already
exceptionally high (roughly 30 percent of GDP in 1986), due in part to
the high degree of implicit taxation of the agricultural sector through
producer pricing policies, fiscal adjustment under the program occurred
primarily through expenditure restraint. By limiting increases or
effecting reductions in controllable current expenditures, the
Government was able to reduce the fiscal deficit in 1988 as a share of
GDP to 5.3 percent (see Table 1). Personnel expenditures increased only
3.5 percent between 1987 and 1988, and materials expenditures declined
by 17 percent. This fiscal improvement was mirrored in Togo's external
position. On the external side, in spite of increased cotton and
phosphate exports, the current account (exclusive of transfers)
deteriorated slightly by roughly CFAF 6.0 billion as imports of consumer
and investments goods increased in response to accelerated economic
activity. As a result, the current account deficit, measured as a
percent of GDP, increased slightly to around 13 percent.
8.          Togo's fiscal performance weakened somewhat in 1989 due to
shortfalls in government revenues. Government receipts linked to
economic activity were below expectations, reflecting the slowdown in
growth, and customs receipts declined as the import composition shifted
towards less heavily taxed foodstuffs and capital end intermediate
goods. In spite of offsetting measures, the fiscal deficit (measured
exclusive of grants) increased by roughly 1 percent of GDP. Togo's
balance of payments improvement in 1989 was, however, in excess of
original program objectives. With phosphate exports continuing to
benefit from strong external demand, the trade balance improved modestly
even though imports of goods and non-factor services grew roughly in
line with GDP. As a result there was a modest improvement in Togo's
current account deficit.
9.          Together with its efforts aimed at restoring macroeconomic
balances, the Government also engaged in a wide-ranging series of
structural reforms, following up, in many cases, on reforms first
initiated under SAL I and II. In the agricultural sector, a system of
flexible produce" pricing was put in place in 1988 for the main export
crops. Under this system a guaranteed floor price is announced prior to
the beginning of each crop year, with farmers receiving a subsequent
supplement based upon actual market developments. Implementation of
this system has coincided with declines in coffee and cocoa prices on
the world market, which necessitated reducing producer prices for these
crops by roughly one half. On the other hand, producer prices for
cotton have been generally maintained, partly through efficiency gains.
This is particularly important given the pervasiveness of cotton
cultivation in Togo.



- 4 -
Table 1
ToRo
Basic Economic Data, 1986-89
Output and Prices              1986         1987        1988         1989
(change in percent over previous
Zear)
Real CDP                        3.4          1.5          4.9         3.8
Real GDY per capita            -1.8         -5.0          2.9         2.1
GDP deflator                    3.6          2.0          3.3         1.2
(percent of GDP, unless otherwise specified)
Gross Investment               24.0         20.2         20.2        20.5
Public Investment              11.9          7.9          7.3         7.6
Budaet
Domestic Revenue               28.9         23.8         24.0        22.9
Grants                          4.3          2.2          2.0         2.4
Expenditure                    37.7         32.8        29.3         29.1
Current                       24.9         24.9        22.0         21.4
(of which personnel)           8.0          9.1         8.7          8.3
Capital                       11.9          7.9          7.3         7.6
Net Lending                    0.9          0.0          0.0         0.0
Resource Balance
Gross Investment/GDP           24.0         20.2        20.2         20.4
Domestic Savings/GDP           12.3         11.6        10.6         13.2
External Sector             (in billion CFAF, unless otherwise specified)
Exports (fob)                 125.6        120.1       135.3        149.3
Imports (cif)                 168.7        155.2       175.9        181.6
Trade balance                 -43.1        -35.1       -40.6        -32.3
Current Account Balance
(before official transfers) -54.0         -45.5       -50.6        -41.9
Official transfers, net        34.8         21.2        22.4         25.1
Current Account Balance       -1l.2        -24.3       -27.8        -16.8
Overall Balance               -26.6        -26.3        -9.4          1.5
Current Account before
official transfers/GDP       -15.0        -12.1       -12.5         -8.8
Current Account after
official transfers/GDP        -5.3         -6.5        -6.8         -3.8
Debt Service/Export of
goods and services            29.4         27.9        25.4          17.3



- 5 -
10.         In parallel with this, the Government sought to diminish the
differential between producer prices and world market prices by reducing
costs of the government agencies responsible for marketing. Under SAL
III, the Government also formally liberalized the marketing of all
agricultural products to and from member countries of ECOWAS, expanding
the potential market for food crop producers. Implementation of this
new policy has been hampered, however, by insufficient follow-through
with those agents charged with its administration. More fundamentally,
the Government announced in mid-1989 a new strategy based on the active
promotion of "non-traditional" agricultural exports, effectively
reversing the long-standing emphasis en limiting foodstuff exports to
ensure food self-sufficioncy.
11.         The Government also undertook a series of measures to
improve the efficiency of resource allocation in the industrial sector,
focussing on rationalizing the system of protection, increasing
incentives for investment, relaxing the regulatory framework, and
actively promoting industrial exports. Export licensing of manufactured
exports was abolished in early 1988 and by end-1989 the Government had
abolished import licensing and quantitative controls on all but three
imports which remain governed by special regimes. The import monopoly
of the state trading company, SONACOM, with respect to key consumer
commodities was also abolished. The Government also put in place, as of
January 1, 1990, new tax and tariff systems, combining them into a
single comprehensive system and substantially simplifying the structure
and reducing the formerly wide dispersion of tariff rates.
12.         To rationalize the incentive framework for investments, the
Government adopted in October 1989 a new investment code in which
incentives are based on pre-determined criteria for enterprise
performance specified in the code. In addition, to promote export-
oriented manufacturing firms, in September 1989 the Government passed a
law establishing export procf;sing zones. Under this regime, firms
whose production is dedicatea to exports and which provide new jobs are
eligible for duty exemptions and fiscal and administrative incentives.
Firms already established in Togo may also benefit from these
arrangements under special circumstances.
13.         In the area of public sector enterprise restructuring, the
Government continued to pursue the divestiture program defined under
SALs I and II. By the end of the SAL III program a total of six firms
remained to be privatized out of the original group of 29 public
enterprises. During the course of SAL III, the Government also
undertook a review of its experience in this area on the basis of which
it adopted a new strategy for future public sector divestitures. Under
the new strategy, 26 firms were designated to remain in the state's
portfolio and an additional 18 enterprises identified for privatization.
For those firms remaining in its portfolio, which include public
utilities, the social security fund and lottery, and certain government
administrative services as well as four hotels and the phosphate
company, the Government initiated work on a new legal framework designed
to foster their improved management and efficiency. This new framework
is to be implemented over the 1991-92 period. The Government also



pursued a series of institutional reforms to improve the efficiency of
the Ministry of industry and State Enterprises (MISE). A new
organizational structure of the Ministry was prepared and, to improve
oversight of public sector enterprises, a management information system
was developed to provide key information on the performance of public
sector firms. By the end of the Third Structural Adjustment Program,
most public enterprises had been integrated into this system.
14.         These reform efforts were associated with a strong growth
response. After 1987, when real growth was only 1.5 percent, Togo
enjoyed positive real growth in per capita terms. Real growth in 1988
was an impressive 4.9 percent while growth in 1989, 3.8 percent, was
comfortably above the rate of population growth. The main sources of
growth were the primary sector which grew in real terms at 6-7 percent a
year in 1988 and 1989. This reflected in 1988 a positive supply
response in food crop production resulting from better climatic
conditions and in 1989 increased production of cotton and coffee
associated with efforts to raise producer prices for these products
during the 1985-88 period. In addition, in 1988 phosphate production
increased sharply in response to increased world demand. With
government consumption constrained, Togo improved its investment/savings
balance, which was roughly halved between 1987 and 1988, while
maintaining a ratio of investment to GDP of over 20 percent.
15.         The Government's performance under SAL III, however, also
highlighted a number of institutional and structural deficiencies.
Implementation of reforms was slower than originally envisioned, with
the second tranche release occurring 21 months after approval of the
program. Part of the explanation for the slow implementation, notably
for the tax and tariff reforms, was a conscious government decision to
proceed prudently in order to have a clear assessment of the impact of
the reforms and to build a domestic consensus around the action.
However, in other cases the lack of progress reflected institutional
capacity constraints.
16.         Public investment programming and implementation showed
little progress beyond the first two programs, reflecting continued
institutional weaknesses. The Public Investment Program (PIP), which
incorporates both investments by the Government as well as public
enterprises, remained largely financed and driven by donors' objectives
and concerns, with little independent capacity on the part of Government
to situate public investments within consistent macroeconomic or
sectoral strategies. In addition, there was little link between the PIP
and the recurrent budget, with investment budgeting and current
budgeting largely independent exercises. While an effort was made in
1988 to estimate recurrent charges tied to investments, the results of
this endeavor remain largely unexploited. Complicating this problem is
the lack of transparency in the investment budget. A significant
proportion of the investment budget consists of expenditures which could
more properly be classified as current expenses. In addition, CPA? 6.5
billion a year (roughly one-fifth of the total investment budget) in
goods derived from phosphate countertrade (texportations compensdes*)



and listed as investments in the budget remained effectively out of the
investment program altogether and not subject to evaluation.
17.         Rates of implementation of the investment budget fell below
levels originally foreseen. Actual investments in 1989 were less than
751 of the amount originally foreseen, below the envisioned 85-90?
execution rate. An explanatory factor in this regard was the existence
of time-consuming administrative procedures governing public contracting
with the President required to approve any contract involving an
expenditure of more than CFAF 10 million (US$ 37,000). According to a
recent study, identification of a project and selection of a contractor
require 25 separate steps involving ten different Government agencies or
bureaus. It had been expected that these problems would be addressed
through the elaboration of a new Public Procurement Code; however, by
the end of SAL III there had been little progress in this area.
Adoption of the Public Procurement Code is now envisioned for 1991.
18.         Government fiscal discipline, dictated by the need to
restore macroeconomic balances, was not necessarily implemented in a way
consistent with long term development needs. Restrictions on
expenditures tended to be applied in an across-the-board manner (as
through freezes on civil service hiring and mandatory early retirement)
rather than through a nuanced approach which took account of differences
in actual needs. This approach had the effect of disadvantaging sectors
devoted to human resource development, such as health and education,
where effective delivery of services requires critical minimum levels of
certain current expenditures, e.g., textbooks, medicines, etc. In spite
of efforts under SAL III to protect overall expenditure levels in health
and education, the combination of fiscal pressures, rapid population
growth and emphasis in sectoral expenditures on personnel rather than
materials adversely affected access to basic health and education
services (see paras. 53-56 below).
C.          Central Development Issues
19.         In spite of the progress made to date in creating a
favorable enabling environment for economic growth, Togo's economic
situation remains fragile. As a small open economy, Togo is strongly
influenced by world market developments. This vulnerability is
exacerbated by the heavy concentration of exports in a few primary
commodities (phosphates, coffee, cocoa, and cotton), the price prospects
of which, over the medium term, are not brilliant. Partly because of
adverse external developments, real growth last year is expected to be
below 2 percent. Real growth over the medium term will thus need to
come from new sources, notably exports of light manufactures and non-
traditional crops, particularly foodstuffs. Complicating this problem
is the need to generate high rates of growth to provide employment for
new entrants into the labor force and to reduce existing unemployment.
Togo's population growth is estimated at 3.1 percent a year and, while
statistics are not entirely reliable, there appears to be sizable
unemployment and underemployment, with urban unemployment in 1985
estimated at 16 percent.



20.         While macroeconomic balances have substantially improved
since 1987, Togo has not yet attained budget and current account
deficits which can be sustained in the absence of extraordinary
financing through balance of payments support or debt relief. External
debt remains burdensome, in spite of recent debt cancellations, with
scheduled external debt service payments (prior to rescheduling)
equivalent to 16 percent of the Government's domestic fiscal receipts.
Togo remains heavily dependent on foreign savings, with external grants
and loans (almost exclusively concessional) equivalent to more than 20
percent of total government expenditure. These factors imply that
fiscal restraint, chiefly through expenditure control, will need to
remain a hallmark of medium term macroeconomic policy.
21.         At the same time, however, Togo will need to pay increasing
attention to human resource development.   Under SAL III efforts were
made to protect overall health and education expenditures, leading, in
the case of public health, to some real spending increases. However,
this effort did not fully offset previous budgetary compression
particularly when account is taken of Togo's rapidly growing population.
In addition, it did not occur in the context of any clear sector
strategies.  Thus, the existing emphasis in these sectors on personnel
expenditures as opposed to materials has remained relatively unaffected,
impairing the delivery of basic health and educational services. A
particularly imp! -tant deficiency in this regard was the lack of any
clear government commitment to address population issues, in spite of
Togo's relatively rapid population growth rate.
22.         Associated with this, greater emphasis needs to be placed on
poverty alleviation. While policies pursued under previous SALs were
essential to restore economic and financial imbalances, and had, in some
cases, positive impacts on poverty alleviation (e.g., increased producer
prices for cash crops), the social dimensions of these policies were not
explicitly taken into account in their formulation or implementation.
This reflected in part inadequate information systems and procedures for
following social developments and assessing the potential impact of
policy choices. However, with the improvement in Togo's macroeconomic
balances and the elimination of a number of the structural impediments
to growth an increased priority needs to be accorded to ensuring that
the benefits of growth are equitably distributed.
23.         Togo also confronts a number of challenges with respect to
the environment, such as deforestation and coastal erosion. The
Government has already undertaken measures to address these problems,
most notably the adoption in November 1989 of an environmental code.
Based upon this code, the authorities intend to prepare an environmental
action plan which will be organized around specific themes: development
of an appropriate institutional framework; protection and management of
watersheds; erosion control and water use management; forestry
improvement and management; protection and management of parks and
reserves; management of the effects of industrialization on the
environment; and improvement of the quality of life in urban and rural
areas. In each of these areas, studies are to be undertaken which will
assess the current situation and define measures or actions to address



- 9 -
the problems identified. This process is currently underway and is
expected to result in the development of an overall strategy in this
area which can serve as a framework for government actions and donor
support.
24.         Addressing these interrelated problems will require careful
economic management in which priorities are clearly defined, tradeoffs
assessed, and policies implemented consistently within the context of
coherent overall strategies. However, experience under previous SALs
has made evident the need to reinforce administrative capacities to
formulate and implement economic policies, particularly in the area of
public finance management. Present systems and personnel, particularly
in the main economic ministries responsible for overall economic
policies, are not adequate to the task, as evidenced in the lack of
progress in public investment programming. Institutional reinforcement
is, therefore, required to ensure the achievement of sustainable growth
and development over the medium term.
D.          Bank Group Operations
25.         As of November 30, 1990, Bank Group lending to Togo
consisted of IDA credits, net totalling US$461.7 million (US$465.9
million in credits minus US$4.3 million in carcellations), of which
US$346.4 million was disbursed, as well as an IBRD loan of US$3.5
million (Annex 4). An additional IDA credits of SDR3.6 million to
support Togo's Fourth Structural Adjustment Program (SAL IV) was
approved December 1990. IFC commitments in Togo as of December 31, 1990
amounted to US$4.2 million. IDA investment credits have financed
agriculture (cocoa, coffee, cotton and food crops), transport, water
supply, power, ed1cation, telecommunications, private enterprise
development and grassroots initiatives supported and/or implemented by
NGOs. Togo has also benefitted from Bank Group support to regional
operations, including two credits to the West African Development Bank
(BOAD), credits for the feasibility study and construction of the
Nangbeto regional hydroelectric project, and, finally, a Bank loan of
US$ 49.5 million to CIMAO (a regional clinker plant, now closed) jointly
and severally guaranteed by the Cote d'Ivoire, Ghana and Togo, plus a
further IDA credit of US$ 5.7 million for CIMAO.
26.         The bulk of IDA finance has occurred since 1983; less than
20 percent of the total commitments pre-date 1985. IDA lending has
involved a mixture of adjustment and project lending (see Table 2
below). Reflecting the close relations with the Government, the Bank
has been active in many sectors in Togo with the main areas of emphasis
being agriculture (8 credits accounting for 22 percent of total IDA
credits) and infrastructure (11 credits representing 29 percent of total
IDA credits). This emphasis conforms with the Government's priority
since 1983 to concentrate public investment in areas promoting or
supportive of directly productive activities. In addition, IDA has
supported technical assistance to the Ministries of Planning, Rural
Development and State Enterprises.



- 10 -
Table 2
Togo - Distribution of IDA Lending
Sector                         Date of Approval  Credit Amount
(USS million)
Adlustment Operations
SAL I                                 06183             40.0
SAL II                               05/85              37.8
SAL III                               03/88             45.3
SAL IV                               12/90              55.0
Eneray
Power Eng. & TA                       11/81               2.0
Nangbeto Hydro                        06184              15.0
Power Rehab. & Ext.                   07/90             15.0
Rural
Coffee, Cocoa Dev.                    07174               6.0
Maritime Region Rural Dev.            06/76               9.5
Dev. in Cotton Areas                  09/77              14.0
Coffee, Cocoa II                      06/79              14.0
Rural Dev. II                         11182              30.4
Coffee, Cocoa III                     12/86              17.9
Agriculture Extension                 05/87               9.7
Cotton Sector                         06/88              15.1
Urban
Lome Water Supply                     06/83              12.0
Telecommunications
Telecommunications                   06/89              16.0
Transport
Highway Maintenance                   10/68               4.3
Second Highway                       11/73               8.7
Third Highway                         03/77             10.0
Feeder Roads                         05/78               5.8
Fourth Highway                       05/81              20.0
Transport Rehab.                     12/87              40.0
Industry and Finance
Phosphate Engin. & TA                 06/81              5.7
CIMA,0 Restructuring                  02/83               5.7
Private Enter. Dev.                   09/87             11.5
Social Sector
First Education                       05/80             11.0
Educational Improvement               03/85             12.4
Grassroots Dev.                       03/89               5.0
Vocational Education                  09/90               9.2
Public Sector Management
Technical Assistance                  06/79               2.2
TA II                                06182               3.5
TA III                                05/85               6.2
Preinvestment                         05/89               5.0
TOTAL                         520.9



- 11 -
IDA adjustment lending to date has been through four structural
adjustment creditst SAL I (US$ 40 million) approved in June 1983; SAL
II (US$ 37.8 million) approved in Hay 1985, SAL III (SDR 33 million)
approved in March 1988, and SAL IV (SDR 39.6 million) approved December
1990. There have been to date no sector adjustment operations in Togo.
E.          Country Lending Strategy and Priorities
27.         The Bank Group has sought through its activities to support
the Government's efforts to promote sustainable growth and development
with equity. This has involved a multifaceted approach, comprising
polic- dialogue, buttressed by economic and sector work; lending, both
project and structural adjustment; and mobilization of donor support for
Togo. As the largest single donor to Togo, active in virtually all
sectors of the economy, the Bank has played an important role in
initiating and sustaining the policy dialogue with the Government. In
this area, relations between the Government and the Bank have been
particularly close since 1983. Through structural adjustment lending
the Bank has been in regular contact with the Government on its overall
strategy and specific policy priorities. This dialogue has been
reflected in Policy Framework Papers which have also served to ensure
consistency between Fund and Bank programs. Key areas of emphasis in
the Bank's dialogue with the Government have been reform of the public
enterprise sector and increased incentives for producers of cash crops.
More recently, social dimensions of adjustment and human resource
development have received particular emphasis in discussions with the
Government.
28.         Consistent with the wide ranging Bank involvement in Togo,
the Bank's lending strategy involves a mixture of investment and
adjustment lending. This mixture is expected to continue in the near
term, reflecting Togo's continuing need for both balance of payments and
investment finance. Investment lending will be concentrated in priority
sectors for economic growth and development and support Government
efforts to promote human resource development and address social
constraints. Investment projects approved earlier this fiscal year have
involved power system rehabilitation and extension, designed to meet
growing electricity demand, and vocational education, aimed at aligning
technical training with actual market skill demands. Both of these
projects fit within a medium term growth context based on positive
supply responses to a favorable Government incentive regime and are
designed to promote growth through alleviation of key capacity
constraints. The vocational education project also represents a key
element in the Government's strategy to promote human resource
development.
29.         A Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL IV) was approved
by the Board December 1990. SAL IV is based upon the Government's
Fourth Structural Adjustment Program for 1990-92, the broad policy
orientations of which are identified in the Government's Policy
Framework Paper for 1990-92, discussed by Executive Directors in June.
Under its Fourth Structural Adjustment Program the Government will seek:
a.) to increase real GDP growth from the current 2 percent to more than



- 12 -
4 percent by the end of the program period; b.) to limit the rate of
inflation, as measured by the GDP deflator, to 3 percent or less; c.) to
reduce the external current account deficit, excluding official
transfers; and d.) to improve the provision of social services, with
particular emphasis on access by the most vulnerable groups.
30.         To achieve these objectives, under SAL IV, the Government
will address many of the remaining structural impediments to growth. The
Credit will provide a vehicle for integrating the Government's budget,
growth, social and human resource development objectives, consonant with
the Government's priorities as defined in the PPP and its Structural
Adjustment Program. In addition, it will define the overall framework
for Government activities in the area of the social dimensions of
adjustment and provide the basis for the implementation of action
programs to address poverty alleviation and ensure a better distribution
of the benefits of growth. The Credit will directly address the key
remaining systemic constraint, public sector management, and by
completing the final phase of the Government's public enterprise reform
program will serve to define the appropriate extent of Governmental
intervention in the economy.
31.         The proposed Health Sector Adjustment Credit will support
Government efforts under its Fourth Structural Adjustment Program to
promote human resource development and improve social conditions,
particularly in rural areas. By addressing sector-specific rigidities
and impediments which have constrained delivery of health care services,
it will serve as an important complement to SAL IV. Through
implementation of specific institutional reforms the proposed Credit
will improve the delivery of primary health care services and
decentralize delivery systems.  In addition, the Credit will also
address the problem of sectoral funding, both in terms of the overall
levels as well as distribution of funding within the sector and between
categories of expenses. Through support for the Government's overall
sectoral strategy during the 1991-94 period, the proposed Credit will
also provide a framework for donor intervention in this sector, thereby
maximizing the effectiveness of external support.
32.         Envisioned Bank operations to be presented to the Board in
the future will reflect the broad priorities identified above. In the
agriculture sector, a project designed to restructure the service
delivery system and promote agricultural productivity was appraised in
June 1990. This project is a central component of the Government's
efforts to promote the production of non-traditional crops, providing
additional growth stimulus in the agricultural sector. Among the
projects envisioned for FY 1992 and beyond is an Economic Management
Project (EMP) which will support the Government's efforts under SAL IV
to improve institutional capacities. Additional projects envisioned for
this period are a rural credit project, to address the problem of
assuring adequate levels of finance for the agricultural sector and
thereby promote growth, and an environmental project, to build upon
environmental action programs currently under preparation. Reflecting
the increased attention to human resource development, work is underway
on an education sector adjustment operation which will be based upon



- 13 -
efforts initiated under the structural adjustment program to define
priorities and needs in this area.
F.          Criteria for Evaluatina Progress
33.         The Government's ability to achieve its medium term
objectives of sustainable growth with equity will be tested over the
next several years. Critical to the achievement of this goal will be
the ability of the Government to reduce the budget deficit to levels
that can be financed in the absence of extraordinary measures. With
government revenues already high relative to GDP, fiscal restraint will
continue to rest upon expenditure control. Of equal importance to the
overall level of Government expenditures is its composition. As a
result of improved rates of execution and in order to support directly
productive activity and provide complementary infrastructure, public
investment levels will need to increase over the medium term. This will
in turn imply that expenditure control will have to be exercised
particularly rigorously on current expenditures. However, within the
current expenditure envelope close attention will need to be paid to
ensuring adequate levels of support for human resource development and
critical social needs. Of particular concern in this regard will be the
need to provide for adequate expenditures for materials in the education
and health sectors. Achievement of these multiple objectives will
involve in the final analysis, therefore, rigorous control over
personnel expenditures, with the overall wage bill showing little, if
any, growth over the next several years.
34.         In the area of structural reform, forceful implementation of
measures to improve public sector management will be particularly
important. This will imply an integrated effort involving institutional
changes focussed on systems of management and organization, to ensure
adequate information flows within and between ministries, and personnel
training, to increase human resource capacities within the Government.
This will be particularly important in the Planning and Finance
Ministries which play central roles in the formulation of economic
policies and the allocation of financial resources.
G.          Aid Coordination and Relations with the IMF
35.         A number of donors are currently active in Togo, providing
both project and balance of payments support. The latter has generally
occurred within the framework of Bank structural adjustment programs and
the Bank has regularly taken the lead in mobilizing and coordinating
support for Togo, notably by co-chairing the 1985 and 1988 Donors' Round
Tables, which set out the Government's medium term public investment
priorities. Based upon the policy orientations contained in its Fourth
Structural Adjustment Program, the Government has initiated a series of
sectoral meetings leading up to a Donors' Round Table meeting in 1991.
The Bank will assist the Government in 1990-92 in mobilizing non-project
assistance in support of its structural adjustment program as well as
project financing to support the public investment program.



- 14 -
36.         In the context of Togo's 1990-92 PFP, a second year ESAF
arrangement was approved by the Fund Board on June 22, 1990.
Performance under this program was reviewed by the DMF Board in December
1990. In the context of a PRP for 1991-93, discussions have been
initiated on a third year ESAP program covering 1991.
H.          Summary Assessment
37.         As a small, open economy, economic policy in Togo must
necessarily be outward oriented with maximum reliance on markets to
signal resource allocation. However, the economic strategy pursued
during the 1970s was at variance with this reality, aiming at a rapid
industrialization brought about through high rates of public investment.
Associated with this was extensive Government intervention in the
economy which occurred directly, through the creation of public
enterprises, and indirectly, through distortions of relative prices.
Pursuit of this strategy resulted in the emergence of economic and
financial difficulties for Togo in the latter part of the decade.
38.         Since 1983 the Government has made considerable strides in
redressing this situation. At the macroeconomic level, fiscal and
current account deficits, measured as a proportion of GDP, have been
reduced relative to the early 1980s. At the structural level, the role
of Government has been sharply cut back, through divestiture and reform
of the public enterprise sector, and through elimination of a number of
price distortions and creation of incentives for private sector
activity. The Bank Group has supported this effort through a mixture of
investment and structural adjustment lending bolstered by an active
policy dialogue.
39.         This effort has been rewarded with a positive supply
response, with real GDP growing in per capita terms in both 1988 and
1989. The strong response by producers of cash crops to higher producer
prices was particularly ercouraging in this respect. However, self-
sustaining growth and development has not yet been achieved. The
Togolese economy remains dependent on developments in the world market
and there is only limited growth potential in several of Togo's main
cash crop exports. Togo's fiscal and balance of payments position
remains precarious over the medium term. In addition, in the face
pressing fiscal constraints, spending levels and allocations in the
health and education sectors need to be carefully managed to permit
achievement of human resource development objectives. Finally,
weaknesses in the Government's budget and public investment processes
remain an important obstacle to sustained growth and development.



- 15 -
40.         Balance of payments impact.  The proposed credit will
provide important balance of payments support for Togo during the 1991-
94 period. During this period Togo is projected to have balance of
payments financing needs averaging US$290 million per year (see Table 3
below). The calculations are based upon the medium term evolution of
Togo's balances of payments and do not take into account additional
import requirements resulting from full implementation of the health
sector program. Full implementation of the program, which will depend
upon availability of additional external finance, coul.d raise balance of
payments financing requirements by as much as US$60 million, i.e., the
amount of donor-financed essential drugs and supplies and investment
costs. Set against this, Togo is expected to have external financial
resources averaging US$264 million. The resulting gap would amount to
roughly US$ 100 million for the 1991-94 period. During the first two
years, this gap would be financed by SAL IV, other donors and the
proposed Population and Health Sector Adjustment Credit. However, there
would remain significant gaps for the period 1993-94 which the proposed
sector Credit would contribute to cover. By 1995, Togo's balance of
payments financing needs are expected to be substantially met.
Table 3
External Financing Requirements: Base Case
(US$ millions)
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Current accountll        -205.0  -208.7  -199.1  -195.1  -207.2  -221.2
Amortization              -66.4   -59.5   -58.8   -62.9   -63.4   -47.5
Change in arrears           0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
IM  (net)                  +5.8   +13.3   -10.0    -8.1    -6.5   -10.0
Change in reserves        -21.1   -43.8    -7.3    -9.6   -11.5   -11.5
CNCA                       -7.3   -23.1      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Financing
Requirements           -294.0  -322.0  -275.2  -275.7  -288.6  -290.2
Disbursement, grants      122.8   120.9   129.7   125.9   127.3   137.4
Disbursement, loans        50.5    59.3    67.3    86.1    93.4   101.1
Other Capital flows,
net                      44.9    44.1    32.5    34.6    52.7    51.8
Rescheduling               55.5    59.1    22.4      0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Financing
Resources               273.7   283.4   251.9   246.6   273.4   290.3
Gap                        20.3    38.6    23.3    29.1    15.2    -0.1
llExclusive of grants



- 16 -
PART II - THE POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR
A.       Population, Health and Nutrition Profile
41.      Togo has conducted two complete population censuses (1970,
1981) and three demographic surveys. However the absence of vital
registration system impedes detailed analysis of the fertility and
mortality situation. Current Bank projections suggest that Togo's
population of 3.6 million (1990), growing at 3.1 percent per annum, will
be 4.9 million in ten years and 6.4 million by year 2010. If these
trends remain unchecked, funding needs for human resource development
will continue to increase at rates that far exceed Togo's means.
Population growth is generated by high fertility and de-lining
mortality. Thus, if not offset by a change in attitude toward
fertility, anticipated improvements in health care would raise the
current rate of population growth and exacerbate the problem of high
childhood dependency (about half of the population is under 15 years of
age). Government's efforts to improve living standards and meet the
country's aspirations would quickly become unsustainable.
42.      While knowledge of family planning has expanded among the
general population, modern contraceptive practice is still low.
Although 33.9 percent of all married women use at least one
contraceptive method, only 3 percent use more reliable modern methods.
Evidence from the 1988 Health and Demographic Survey (HDS) suggests that
there is a significant unmet demand for family planning in urban and
rural areas. The growing incidence of induced abortions in urban and
rural areas suggests that women do control their fertility.
43.      As to health status, mortality and morbidity data are neither
comprehensive nor precise. Despite commitment to PHC and recent focus on
child survival, infant mortality is still high, (estimates vary from
90-130 per 1,000 live births) and the maternal mortality rate of 476 per
100,000 deliveries is high compared to about 300 recorded in Botswana
and Cameroon. Malaria, infectious diseases and diarrhea continue to be
major killers and malnutrition sustains high morbidity among the general
population. In 1988, malaria, diarrhea and acute respiratory diseases
accounted for 78 percent of all infant out-patient consultations
reported from Government services. Among children 1-4 years old, 50
percent of all consultations were nutrition deficiency related diseases
and childhood communicable diseases accounted for another 40 percent.
44.    Togo is generally self-sufficient in staple foods.  Per capita
daily calorie supply (2,207) is close to the minimum requirement.
However, periodic drops in food production resulting from drought reduce
the food supply of the most vulnerable groups such as landless peasants,
lactating mothers, their children and older people. About 32 percent of
children under 5 weigh less than 80 percent weight-for-age. Hospital
records in Lom6 show that 10 percent of all child admissions relate to
cases of severe malnutrition deficiencies. Most pregnant women are
anemic and few children have a growth monitoring record. Iodine and



- 17 -
vitamin A deficiencies contribute to a high incidence of goiter and
vitamin A-related illnesses for which the health care system provides no
effective prevention. The problem of malnutrition is aggravated by the
highly polluted sources from which the majLrity of the population gets
its water supply. Water-borne diseases, poor hygiene and food
contamination contribute to the high prevalence of intestinal parasites
and diarrheal infections.
45.    The problems of high fertility and mortality in Togo require
multi-sectoral measures to be implemented over a considerable period.
However, specific measures in the area of maternal and child care and
public health can be rapidly put into practice to expand family planning
services and reduce mortality thereby laying a firm foundation for
future fertility decline and for achieving further improvements in
health status. Information, education and communication activities in
the health sector can be used to improve maternal and child nutrition
and to increase awareness and use of family planning services.
B. Population, Health and Nutrition Services
46.      Population:  During the last thirty years, Togo, like most
francophone African countries, did not consider population dynamics and
policy as instruments for national economic development planning. The
official thinking was pronatalist and assumed a positive correlation
between the rates of population growth and economic development. This
view was re-enforced by strong traditional beliefs that having many
children was a source of wealth, and by religious and inheritance
systems that hailed high fertility and urged every couple to have
children. Persistently high childhood and maternal mortality provided
little incentive to limit family size. In addition, anti-family planning
legislation inherited from French Colonial Administration prohibited the
importation, distribution and promotion of contraceptives.
Consequently, little official attention was directed to finding
solutions to the increasing rate of population growth during Togo's
first twenty years of independence. The situation began to change in the
19809 as Togo began to take a more holistic view of its economic and
social development prospects.
47.      The Ministry of Plan is charged with coordinating and promoting
population policy. The Ministry of Health (MSP) plays the lead role in
policy implementation especially in the areas of maternal and child
health, family planning service delivery and population education
through its maternal and child health/family planning (MCH/FP) Division.
The Directorate of Statistics in the Ministry of Plan is responsible for
demographic data collection, analysis and dissemination. It has, with
support from international and bilateral sources, conducted Togo's
censuses and surveys and has recently established a vital registration
unit to promote the systematic recording of vital events. Improvements
in sector statistical systems, with Bank support through the social
dimensions of adjustment (SDA), would form part of Government's efforts
to improve the data base for economic and social development planning.
Family planning statistics have been collected sporadically by
Government, NGO and private sector facilities. Since 1980, United



- 18 -
Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) assistance has enabled
the Government to establish a demographic training unit in the national
university to sensitize civil servants, students and teachers on the
interrelationships between population and development.
48.      The HDS (Para.42) provided data on contraceptive use indicating
that family planning services are available in clinics in urban areas
and contraceptives are sold in pharmacies. Some 2,000 health personnel
have received training in family planning bue very few actually deliver
the services. Only 30 health centers provide medical contraceptive
services and information, and education and communication (IEC)
dctivities on the subject are limited. A school population education
pilot project initiated in 1984 was tested in 24 schools across the
country but has not been sustained. The Togolese Family Planning
Association, an NGO affiliate of the International Planned Parenthood
Federation (IPPF), has developed a nationwide network which trains
auxiliary midwives in family planning and supplies Government health
facilities with contraceptives.
49.      Health Care: Past Government policy sought to improve health
status of the population and initial programs were aimed essentially at
supporting curative and urban health care units. However, persistent
high mortality and morbidity, especially in rural areas, led to a shift
in Government policy, in 1978, to a primary health care (PEC) strategy
that accorded priority to peripheral services following the 1978 Alma
Ata Declaration on PHC. To implement this policy, the Government
expanded health infrastructure, increased staffing and accorded more
attention to maternal and child health including birth spacing,
immunization, health education, malaria control and environmental
sanitation. While the objectives were sound, the poor results achieved
so far suggest that the policy did not adequately address certain key
constraints to successful performance.
50.      The ministerial reorganization of February 1990 split the
Ministry of Health, Social and Women's Affairs into two ministries (See
Annex 13). The Ministry of Public Health (MSP) is responsible for
Government policy and programs in the areas of health, family planning
and nutrition. The Ministry of Social and Women's Affairs (MASCF)
carries out health related activities through its centres sociaux
covering health and nutrition education and supplementary feeding
programs. A sector review study to be carried out in the coming months
would redefine the role that the new MASCF would play in promoting
social welfare and enhancing the status of women. The MSP comprises a
General Directorate of Public Health with eight divisions responsible
for administration and finance; epidemiology; public hygiene; maternal
and child care; hospital services; pharmacy; laboratory services;
training and personnel development. The central directorates of MSP
manage and supervise the personnel and the execution of the sector
budget. The Directorate of Pharmacy regulates drug imports into the
country and is responsible for distributing drugs, technical equipment
and supplies to all Government health facilities. Decision making is
highly centralized and the simplest acts require the Minister's
clearance. The health care system is manned by 263 physicians, 64



- 19 -
pharmacists, 1,117 nurses, 843 midwives and auxiliaries and 250
laboratory technicians. This implies a population/physician ratio of
13,700 and a population/para-medizal personnel of 1,632, both ratios
comparing favorably with the averages for sub-saharan Africa (23,600 for
physicians and 2,100 for para-medical personnel). NGO (Catholic,
Protestant and Evangelic) and private sector health providers operate
health care services in many areas of the country.
51.      Togo's network of public health infrastructure managed entirely
by the MSP consist of 1,914 health posts and 591 dispensaries at the
village level, 69 health centers and 16 hospitals at the district and
prefectoral level, 5 regional hospital centers at the regional level,
and a national referral hospital in Lom4. The Office National de la
Pharmacie (TOGOPHARMA), a Government monopoly, imports drugs for public
and private health facilities. Many private pharmacies operate in the
Capital city, Lome, and an extensive trade in illegally imported drugs
thrives in most parts of Togo. The monopoly TOGOPHARMA prevents direct
import by other health providers. Drug prices have remained high and
cost recovery has not been rigorously enforced in public facilities as
essential drugs supplies have been irregular. High priced branded drugs,
available in pharmacies, TOGOPHARMA depots and public and private
facilities, are beyond the purchasing power of the general population
forcing most people to turn to illegally imported, often expired drugs.
An overwhelming majority of the population uses traditional medicines
but little information is available on the extent and scope of the
activities of traditional practitioners. Under current financial
conditions the chronic shortage of essential drugs to treat common
diseases constitutes one of the most serious constraints to effective
care.
52.      The concentration of health care and family planning
facilities, personnel and financial resources in the coastal region,
particularly in the capital Lome, works to the detriment of the other
regions. Even within this region, health personnel distribution is
skewed in favor of hospital curative care to the detriment of basic
primary health care. The northern areas of Togo are severely under-
equipped and the population has to travel long distances to get basic
care. The referral system does not work and hospitals have become large
dispensaries, treating common diseases that should best be handled at
primary health care centers. At all levels, the services provided are
poor, and the system implies unnecessarily high costs per life saved.
53.      Nutrition Services:  The Applied Nutrition S,irvice of MSP has
been dormant for years and little has been done to understand the
dynamics of malnutrition among specific groups in Togo. Very useful
research work on nutrition has been initiated in the medical faculty of
the university but little effort has been made to integrate it into the
work of the MSP and MASCF. Activities to promote better nutrition have
included (a) education and feeding programs in MASCF's centres sociaux,
usually adjacent to health centers; (b) nutritional surveillance in MSP
health centers; (c) IEC programs on radio and television; and (d) clinic
nutritional treatment and monitoring in hospitals. However, these have
been constrained by lack of operating funds, weak coordination and



- 20 -
ineffective supervision. Improving the current situation calls for
measures to strengthen the national service, extend operational
research, train staff, improve service delivery, especially nutrition
education services, strengthen food evaluation capabilities among
personnel in the field who interact regularly with the population and
integrate nutrition education into a broad program of social
development.
C. Sector Finance
54.      Togo's public health care system is financed through the
national budget, through external donor financing, and through private
domestic funds. Government hospitals charge for curative services but
the proceeds are deposited in the Government Treasury. Private health
care facilities charge fee schedules different from those charged by
:overnment facilities and have total independent management control over
the use of such proceeds. In 1989, Government per capita spending on
health amounted to CFAF 1,489 (US$5). The 1990 recurrent budget retains
a single allocation for the two ministries (MSP and HASCF) amounting to
CPA? 5.5 billion (US$18.4 million) up from CFAF 5.1 billion (US$17.0
million) in 1989. Staff salaries account for 75 percent of this budget
(CPA? 4.1 billion or US$13.8 million equivalent), allocations for non-
wage operating expenses account for 23 percent of the health budget
(CPA? 1.3 billion or US$4.2 million equivalent) and the remaining 2
percent of the budget (CFAF 130.6 million or US-0.4 million equivalent)
is earmarked for miscellaneous expenses. In addition, separate
budgetary allocations to the University Hospital Center in Lom6 for 1990
amount to CPAF 2.4 billion (US$7.8 million). Private investment in the
health sector is limited and undocumented
55.      The system of budgeting is by administration unit and the
absence of effective program budgeting limits the Government's ability
to adequately assess sector needs, allocate facility budget according to
operational levels, set priories and efficiently evaluate resource use.
As a result, population and health sector services have been
systematically under-funded in Government budgetary allocations since
the Ministry of Finance has no indicators for assessing sector needs.
In 1979, the health budget represented 6.5 percent of the total
Government budget. By 1987 it hardly exceeded 5 percent - a level
significantly lower than the average of 6 percent in other sub-Saharan
countries at a similar stage of development. Diminishing budgetary
resources in past years led to an under financing of non salary
operating costs as staff recruitment, even for non essential personnel,
continued. Between 1982 and 1987, non salary expenses in M$P's annual
budget amounted to less than 20 percent, much of which was spent on Lom6
based hospital facilities, leaving rural areas starved of essential
drugs and supplies. Recent budgetary restraint, although necessary to
restore macroeconomic equilibria, has, because of the choices made,
contributed to the continuous depletion of critical non wage operating
funds. This has led to a serious deterioration of health services and
physical plant, as well as increased reliance on external donors for
recurrent costs.



- 21 -
56.      In recent years investments in the sector have been exclusively
funded through external sources which in 1988 amounted to US$5 million
equivalent. Consequently, choices have been determined by availability
of foreign financing and donor preferences. The investment budget of
MSP for 1990 amounts to CFAF 1.1 billion (US$3.7 million equivalent).
In the past, the implementation of investment programs financed by
external donor resources has been inhibited by the lack of counterpart
funding, which in several cases was not included in project cost
estimates. In addition, investments have not been coordinated and do
not take into account recurrent cost implications for the Government's
budget in terms of personnel, operating expenses and supplies.
Consequently, new facilities tend to be understaffed, ill-equipped and
lack operating inputs including replacement and maintenance funds. The
Government has recognized this problem and has instituted closer
collaboration among the Ministry of Plan, responsible for investment
planning, the Ministry of Finance in charge of the recurrent budget and
the MSP responsible for service delivery.
D. Major Constraints to Sector Performance
(a) Inadequately articulated Priorities and Strategic Framework
57.      Positive results from NGO pioneering work on family planning
(para. 47), encouraged the Government to conduct a series of workshops
designed to achieve national consensus on problems brought on or
aggravated by persistently rapid population growth and on priority areas
of action needed to address them. The result of these reflections are
summarized in Togo's first population policy statement adopted by the
Council of Ministers on September 27, 1990 and activities described in
that policy would be pursued in the Government's sector adjustment
program presented in Part IV below.
58.      Past unsatisfactory progress in improving health status and
keeping the rate of population growth at manageable levels has been
largely due to the lack of an adequate strategic framework at the
national level. In the absence of a mechanism at the national level for
systematic policy formulation, implementation monitoring, and
evaluation, policies and programs have often been ad hoc, not backed by
strong commitment, and unlikely to achieve results commensurate with the
dimension of the problems. Government policies in the areas of
population and health did not adequately articulate priorities,
operational objectivps and targets to be pursued in Government programs.
Proposed solutions did not emanate from a careful analysis of problems
and prevailing constraints and were not translated into effective,
implementable and sustainable policies and operational strategies.
Consequently, programs have rarely achieved their targets and have been
implemented in an uncoordinated manner (e.g., the imuunization program,
the child survival program) leading to serious duplication and waste of



- 22 -
resources. The lack of a national strategic framework, and clear
mandates for the implementing institutions has contributed to the
emergence or intensification of the management and other constraints
outlined below.
(b)     Inadequate Management and Organization
59.    MSP's capability to carry out key sector management functions is
weak.  There is no management information system and MSP has limited
capacity for analysis - especially in the financial and project
preparation areas (planning, programming and budgeting). Programs are
often donor-led with little coordination taking place. Consequently,
the management of PHC and MCHIFP programs funded by USAID, GTZ and UNFPA
has so far not been integrated into MSP's management system, thereby
raising the issue of sustainability. MSP's organization is deficient
with internal roles and functions not clearly defined, many balkanized
units, frequent overlapping, no coordination, and little ability to
organize activities, exchange information, put in place methods, systems
and norms, liaise with the field, interact with beneficiaries, etc.
Staff management is hindered by bureaucratic outmoded civil service
procedures, and the lack of personnel supervision. Staff training and
deployment plans bear little relevance to policy priorities. MSP's
management is highly centralized, with little delegation of
responsibilities at all levels. Thus, initiatives are easily thwarted,
staff are demotivated, performance criteria are very bureaucratic, the
decision making process is long, technical advice is often ignored and
backup capability is non existent. Consequently, there is a lack of
consensus on and sustained commitment to objectives. Mandates with
specific output and targets are not effectively monitored and certain
essential skills and adequate means are lacking.
(c) Financial Constraints
60.    Faced with an overall unfavorable financial environment, the
sector has not fully activated all the instruments at its disposal to
mitigatet (i) the lack of regulatory framework for private sector
investment in health; (ii) funding gaps through better cost recovery and
community participation in health sector financing; and (iii) weakness
in the overall budget allocation and disbursement process. Most of the
health budget goes to staff salaries and critical non-wage expenses are
not financed. In the face of limited resources, vital services are not
accorded the necessary priority in the budgeting process. Weak
financial responsibility and accountability leads to waste throughout
the sector. Insufficient cooperation with the central ministries of
Finance and Plan results in arbitrarily determined annual allocations
that do not reflect sector priority needs. While additional resources
for the sector are warranted and the Government has increased funding to
the sector during 1989-91, adoption of corrective measures to optimize
resource use will be imperative to improve sector performance. Even so,
as a result of the severity of past sector underfinancing, such
projected increases in Government funding would fall short of the amount
the Government would need to put in place an effective health and
population program.



- 23 -
(d) Structural Constraints at Service Delivery Level
61.    Togo's health care system and population planning program face
serious structural problems. Chief among these are inadequate
integration of the eight components of PHC at the level of each facility
and serious disfunction in the referral system. At this level
operational norms are lacking and treatment protocols do not exist. No
outreach strategy is in place to ensure that the most vulnerable groups,
particularly women and young children, benefit from available services.
This dire field picture is the consequence of the policy, management and
financial weaknesses noted earlier, as well as the low representation of
the rural population compared to the p.essure exerted by other, more
influential groups.
62.    The MSP's information system, based on service statistics from
health facilities and on special epidemiological studies, is poor. The
routine reporting system is complex, cumbersome and tailored to the
needs of donor-financed vertical programs rather than on sectoral
operational efforts to monitor the efficiency of services. There is
considerable duplication of effort, no national guide for disease
classification exist and no standard definition for malnutrition has
been communicated to nurses, midwives and physicians. Work in health
facilities is highly fragmented in time and space. Procedures for
compilation and analysis of services statistics are inadequate and
quality control mechanisms are not reliable.
(e) Human Resource Constraints
63.    The development of Togo's health and population programs is
inhibited by a rudimentary staff management system. Basic technical
training suffers from inadequate curricula and a focus on curative
hospital care, and hence provides outmoded qualifications. The system
offers limited in-service training and ad hoc training programs are
often ill-designed and poorly costed. Within the whole system there is
a total lack of professional norms, limited staff supervision and
evaluation, and an incomplete staffing plan. The MSP has no staff
deployment monitoring system and thus cannot adequately assess staffing
needs within clearly defined skill mix allocations at different levels.
The root causes of these constraints are that MSP is poorly organized
for effective personnel management and the lack of policies and tools to
optimize staff deployment. Physicians are concentrated in the central
ministry carrying out tasks for which they are not adequately trained.
The concentration of medical and para-medical staff in Lome deprives
rural facilities of the services of available personnel. The
performance of existing staff is seriously handicapped by a lack of
incentives and the unavailability of equipment and supplies.
64.    Functions and responsibilities of different categories of
personnel are ill-defined and career development is unstructured. Staff
duties are not detailed. The importance as well as the difficulty of
improving the personnel situation are highlighted by the fact that
public health staff need to be able to both act as competent technicians



- 24 -
and interface with the system's beneficiaries, skills they have not
acquired during basic in-service training.
PART III. THE GOVERNMENT'S SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A.     Rationale for a Population and Health Sector Adjustment Program
65.    Failure to address the above-identified systemic constraints
would perpetuate the current sector weaknesses, including its inability
to absorb and use internal and external resources efficiently and
effectively. In such a context, easily treatable and preventable
tropical communicable diseases will continue to cripple Togo's efforts
to develop (para. 49). Inaction would also allow the new threat of AIDS
to deal a deadly blow to the country's efforts to develop a healthier
human resource base for sustained development. A major Structural
Adjustment objective - to rationalize resource use and efficiency in the
economy while promoting growth with equity - is unlikely to be achieved
without full-fledged policy reforms in the strategic areas of human
resource development. In this context, failure to take into account and
address the problem of the rapid rate of population growth would reduce
internal savings propensity, perpetuate high childhood dependency and
make it much more difficult for Togo to develop even with significant
external support. Togo's human resources will not be prepared and
adequately equipped for an increasingly competitive world if its
population continues to grow faster than its gross domestic product and
if its labor force continues to be plagued by easily treatable tropical
communicable diseases, and to be burdened by high fertility. Promoting
sustainable progress in the sector requires the adoption of a
comprehensive program of far-reaching policy measures (notably with
regards to institutional development, budgeting and civil service) that
cannot be addressed without a strong linkage with the macroeconomic
framework and strategic monitoring involving the Government as a whole.
Therefore, a conventional investment program would not achieve the
objectives that the Government rightly intends to pursue under the
proposed sector adjustment program discussed below.
B.     Government's Population and Health Sector Adjustment Program.
66.    The Government's Population and Health Sector Adjustment Program,
(The Program) has evolved through a consensus building process which
continues. It seeks to assure a satisfactory level of primary health
care and family planning (PHC/FP) services to the population at large by
focussing on systemic and fundamental constraints on good service
delivery. It will ensure that PHC/FP centers offer services of good
quality that are not available so far to the general population, through
providing trained staff, essential inputs, especially drugs, diagnostic
supplies and operating budgets on a sustainable basis in these centers.
The program also addresses the pervasive morbidity and mortality
resulting from inadequate treatment and prevention of tropical
communicable and parasitic diseases. Executing the program requires
that policy measures be taken to release the systemic constraints now
impeding the performance of the sector and specific actions to achieve



- 25 -
(a) better planning; (b) more effective institutional arrangements at
national level, within the MSP and at the regional levelss (c) improved
personnel and financial management; and (d) efficient cost recovery and
beneficiary participation in the management of services. The Program
would as a result, create a sector environment that would make it
possible for both domestic and externally funded investments to achieve
better results.
67.    The Program would be implemented over a four year period. It
would entail extra costs, including local expenditures required to
revitalize PBC, especially in rural areas, and to expand family planning
throughout the health care system and among communities. The program
would require an internal reallocation of resources as well as an
increase in overall domestic budgetary allocation to the sector.
68.    The Government's sector adjustment program is embodied in (a)
policy statements for population and health adopted on September 26,
1990 defining objectives, priorities and principal ways and means; (b)
an operational strategy document with medium term targets and specific
plans for priority programs; and (c) an Action Plan of monitorable key
measures necessary for successful implementation of the strategy. The
program sets out to (i) resolve constraints emanating from the lack of a
national policy and strategic framework (paras. 57 and 58); (ii) reduce
inadequacies in sector management and organization (paras. 59); (iii)
alleviate past problems of under-financing (para. 60); (iv) remove
serious structural constraints at the service delivery level (paras. 61
and 62); and (v) address personnel constraints (paras. 63 and 64). The
program's objectives and content are discussed below. Because of its
far reaching character and of the pervasive nature of the issues it
addresses, the program constitutes a significant deepening of the
Government's overall adjustment program.
C.    Goals and Nature of Reform Program
69.    The program comprises policy reforms and critical measures and
intermediary steps required for implementing them. It is designed to
tackle the systemic constraints identified in Part II, to ensure that
PHC and PP services respond to the real needs of the population and that
once developed these services can be sustained. Specifically, the
Program sets out achievable medium-term goals to increase contraceptive
practice and birth spacing; to reduce mortality and morbidity caused by
the most predominant diseases (malaria, diarrhea, acute respiratory
infections, childhood infections, traumas, conjunctivitis, intestinal
parasites and nutritional deficiencies); and to improve the economic and
social status of Togolese women. The principal ways and means of
achieving these goals would be the integration of family planning
services into PHC; the promotion of NGO and private sector activities in
family planning; the formalization of community participation in sector
management, and improved distribution of sector resources at all levels.
The Program includes support activities to enhance the achievement of
service delivery targets such as community mobilization, cost recovery
and IEC. It also incorporates institutional reform measures to



- 26 .
strengthen sector strategic planning, budgeting, financial and personnel
resource management and sector coordination.
D.     Specific Measures under The Adjustment Program (Action Plan)
70.    A series of policy measures and institutional reforms (Policy
Matrix [Action Plan]) which have been incorporated into the Government's
policy statements on population and health (Annex 1) are identified in
this Program as key to its successful implementation. This Action Plan
(Annex 2) which corresponds to sector constraints analyzed in Part II of
the report is summarized as follows:
(a) Measures to improve the national policy and strategic
framework:
71.    Measure 1: Adoption and introduction of a National Policy on
Population. Through country-wide and multi-sectoral consultations, the
Government identified the problems that the rapid growth in Togo's
population poses for the country's economic and social development
prospects. It adopted a medium term policy to sensitize the general
population, increase availability and use of family planning services
and improve PHC services to combat high mortality. These measures are
critical for setting and achieving, in the future, specific targets to
reduce fertility. The policy statement defines goals and operational
strategies for priority programs to be carried out during the medium
term which would form the basis for longer term strategies to address
obstacles to development posed by rapid population growth. The statement
covers activities designed to: (i) promote women's status; (ii) prepare
the youth for productive adult life; (iii) improve maternal and child
health; (iv) expand and intensify family planning and birth spacing
practice; (v) support elderly persons without pensions; (vi) educate the
population on reproductive planning and its relevance to family economic
and social; (vii) promote more equitable distribution of service
facilities for the population; (viii) improve the quality and use of
demographic statistics; and (ix) institute methodologies for integration
of population variables in development planning. Its essence has been
incorporated in the Government's statement of development policy for SAL
IV and elements of the policy concerning maternal and child health,
women's status, family planning and birth spacing and IEC are included
in the Program. The policy would henceforth be used as a guide to
future program support on population activities.
72.    Measure 2: Adoption and introduction of a refined health sector
policy. Following extensive analysis of health sector operations and
the organization of multi-sectoral technical working groups on
prevailing sector constraints, the Government drafted a health policy
and an operational strategy for its implementation in the medium term.
This draft was reviewed by the Appraisal Mission and found to be
consistent and comprehensive enough to adequately tackle constraints
outlined in paragraphs 57-64. It defines priority service delivery
programs (consistent with the diagnosis of main causes of morbidity and
mortality in Togo) for (i) implementing population policy goals in the
areas of maternal and child health, family planning and nutrition; (ii)



- 27 -
providing curative and preventive services against malaria; (iii)
intensifying control measures against tuberculosis and other respiratory
diseases; (iv) combatting guinea worm and other parasitic diseases
prevalence; (v) devoting greater effort to the treatment of sexually
transmitted diseases and to the prevention of AIDS; (vi) setting up
better dental and ophthalmological diseases control services; (vii)
prevention of hypertension and other cardio-vascular diseases; and
(viii) improving personal and environmental sanitation. The policy
statement and operational strategy would provide a sector framework and
guide future domestic and externally funded investments in the sector.
73.    Measure 3: Institute a population/health policy monitoring and
coordination mechanism (Comite Technique de Coordination et de Suivi,
CTCS). Inter-sectoral collaboration initiated in the process of
developing the sector adjustment program would be formalized into an
instrument for monitoring the implementation of the Program. The
Government has established an inter-ministerial committee (Comite
Technique de Coordination et de Suivi, CTCS) charged with the periodical
review of all aspects of implementation of the Action Plan and
responsible for resolving any bottlenecks in the execution of activities
in the Plan. The composition and functions of this committee are
outlined in the Decree presented in Annex 6. The CTCS will commission
periodic beneficiary assessment surveys to ensure that sector activities
respond to and meet the perceived needs of the population. It would
monitor the compliance by private providers of health and family
planning services with the requirements of the law to be enacted to
regulate private sector operations in population and health.
(b) Measures to strengthen general sector management:
74.    Measure 4:  Reorganization of MSP*s central and regional units.
The Program would implement the new Decree reorganizing the central and
regional directorates of the MSP. Under the Program support would be
provided to streamline the functions and responsibilities of each unit.
The reorganization entails the transfer of day to day management away
from central to regional units, thereby preparing the ground for
progressive decentralization of the management system. The exercise
would involve measures to improve the overall performance of the
ministry through strengthening the capabilities of the newly reorganized
units of the MSP and through selective training and technical assistance
in the areas of: (a) strategic planning, programming, administrative and
financial management notably budgeting; (b) program coordination,
supervision and evaluation; (c) personnel and career management; (d)
management information system development; and (e) maternal and child
health and family planning services organization. During negotiations,
the Government presented to IDA signed Decrees reorganizing the MSP, its
Directorate General for Public Health and establishing management
structures for hospitals (Annex 7).
75.    Measure 5:  Institution of an intra-sector management and
supervision committee (Comite Technique des Directeurs, CTD/MSP). The
CTDIMSP, set up within the MSP, would be responsible for overall



- 28 -
supervision, and evaluation of sector programs. Under the Program,
operational support would be provided to enable the CTDIMSP carry out
the functions outlined in Annex 8. It would provide the information
(reports, analysis, estimates, staff deployment plans, proposed
revisions to norms and criteria) that the CTCS needs for monitoring and
coordinating sector operations. Office supplies and logistic support
would be provided to enable it carry out regular sector-wide
consultation on key implementation issues needing prompt action, review
performance indicators, carry out periodic evaluations of programs and
recommend specialized and in-service training for field level program
managers and other technical staff. The proper functioning of the
CTDIMSP would be monitored during follow up missions and annual joint
IDA/Government reviews.
76.    Measure 6:  Institution of operational norms and criteria for the
health care system. To address the problems highlighted in paragraph
63, the Government has prepared an operational strategy document for
carrying out the sector reform program. The document, complementary to
the sector policy statements, establishes norms for facilities,
monitorable performance indicators, criteria for integrating priority
programs at the regional and peripheral levels, and serves as a
framework for fixing annual service delivery targets. It defines line
functions of hospitals, health centers and dispensaries and would
establishes appropriate regulatory framework for the operation of
facility level management committees. Under the Program, these norms and
performance indicators would be regularly monitored by the CTD/MSP
(para. 75).
(c) Measures to strengthen sector financial management:
77.    Measure 7:  Institution of a new program budgeting system.  The
refinement of sector policy and operational strategy has led Government
to introduce a new program budgeting process that ensures that funds are
allocated according to established norms and criteria as defined in the
sector operational strategy. In the context of the SAL program, the
Government determined its minimum contribution to the level of current
expenditures necessary to provide essential health and family planning
services to the population, under Togo's prevailing financial
constraints. Sectoral program budgeting instituted under the Program
would establish proper linkages between priority operational service
needs and budget composition and estimates. This new system would
eliminate undesignated funds which in past years contributed to resource
waste. Under the Program, financial accounting and management processes
would be set up and these would improve direct utilization of new
revenues generated through cost recovery (para. 80). The program
budgeting system initiated would be strengthened through the generation
of information from field staff on operating and wage requirements for
each program. Expenditure norms, based on tae minimum mix of inputs
required for typical activities (e.g. activities carried out at a
primary health center), would be monitored and modified accordingly



- 29 -
during the sector adjustment period. These would form the basis for
annual budgetary reviews included in the Action Plan which are also
tranche release conditions.
78.    Measure 8:  Maintenance of minimum core expenditures in the
health sector. Consistent with its commitment to protect core social
services, tbhe Government proposes to maintain its own budgetary
contribution to recurrent expenditures in this sector at no less than
CFAF 6.0 billion in 1991, CFAF 6.4 billion in 1992, CFAF 6.9 billion in
1993 and CFAF 7.4 billion in 1994. This would entail increasing non
wage operating costs annually from 23? of sector expenditures in 1990 to
352 in 1994. This measure which would guarantee critical financial
inputs to the sector would be monitored annually by CTCS and reviewed
jointly with IDA. Under the Program, logistic and technical assistance
support would be provided to assist the MSP establish the methodology
for monitoring these norms as part of the decentralized management
system the Government proposes to set up by December 1992.
79.    Measure 9:  Institute a three year rolling investment budgeting
process in the sector. Improvement in programming capabilities (para.
43) would enable the Government to rationalize sector investments and
future Government borrowing policy in the sector. During 1991-94, the
Government's investment strategy in the sector would accord the highest
priority to the rehabilitation and re-equipment of existing facilities
especially in rural areas and the channelling of external aid to
priority lists established for such rehabilitation. Under this sector
adjustment operation, technical assistance, training and logistic
support would be provided to help the MSP, working in collaboration with
the Ministries of Plan and Finance, to prepare these sectoral plans and
regularly monitor their implementation. Support on sector investment
programming would include technical back up by central ministry planning
staff of regional level planning initiated under the new decentralized
management system. To enable them to play this role effectively, MSP
staff would receive training in strategic planning, programming and
program analysis.
80.    Measure 10:  Mobilization of additional resources for sector
operations. To assist households rationalize their expenditures on
health and to reduce the unit cost for essential drugs and supplies to
the population, the Government proposes to introduce cost recovery in
all public health facilities. To develop this system, the Government
proposes, under the Program, to design and implement cost recovery
measures and an essential drugs program in a sample of facilities during
1991-92 and to generalize the system in all centers by 1994. The
Government has signed a Decree which authorizes local management
committees at the level of each facility to introduce cost recovery,
manage funds and use proceeds for replenishing stocks of essential drugs
and financing critical non-wage operating expenses (Annex llb).
(d) Measures to improve service delivery:
81.    Under the Program, the Government would address the operational
problems encountered at the service delivery level in the following



- 30 -
ways. It will implement certain generic measures tot rehabilitate and
re-equip existing facilities essential for service delivery and
institute a maintenance system; and strengthen personnel management and
institute regular supervision and in-service training. These measures
would improve primary health care at the periphery thereby reducing
current geographical biases and extending coverage. In the populatlon
field, improvements will be instituted fort li) maternal and child
health care and family planning, comprising pre- and post-natal care,
growth monitoring and nutrition surveillance, detection and management
of high risk pregnancies, and provision of family planning services; and
(ii) population education, involving institution-based and outreach
activities to create greater awareness of uses and availability of
family planning services. In the area of health care, programs
reinforcing primary health care would include the development of an
essential generic drugs program and extension of cost recovery measures
to mobilize funds for vital non-wage expenses. The increase in the
sector operational budget would enable existing facilities perform more
efficiently in; (i) curing common communicable, parasitic and infectious
diseases; (ii) providing immunization, and health and nutrition
education; and (iii) strengthening of community participation in PHC
and cost recovery activities. Specific reforms to reinforce these
programs are summarized below.
82.    Measure ll   Institute a decentralized maintenance system for
existing facilities. The Program would rehabilitate 157 peripheral
health facilities, reconstruct and equip 30 others and re-equip 16 rural
hospitals serving as first referral facilities, (Annex 15), thereby
enabling the Government to achieve operational targets set out in its
policy statement for priority program activities. To ensure that
rehabilitated facilities and equipment do not deteriorate, the Program
would set up a decentralized maintenance system which would enhance
local community responsibility in timely preventive maintenance within
each facility. A new maintenance unit has been set up in the MSP to
support and coordinate maintenance at the national level. This unit
would be provided technical and operational support to establish and
maintain an inventory of all equipment and infrastructure and to carry
out periodic inspection tours to verify the state of depreciation and
program timely repairs or replacements. It would liaise with the MSP's
Finance Division and with regional directorates which are responsible
for carrying out repairs, planning, procuring and replacing equipment in
health facilities.
83.    Measure 12:  Strengthening of Maternal and Child Health and
Famill Planning services (MCHlFP). The Governament's new Population
Policy (para. 71) accords the highest priority to measures for expanding
family planning and reducing maternal and childhood mortality. Under
the Program, modern contraceptive practice among women of child-bearing
ages would be raised from the current 3 to 15 percent through the
integration of family planning services into the regular activities of
all health facilities. The Program would institute a high risk pregnancy
management system to improve delivery care, reduce maternal and
perinatal mortality and provide greater access to family planning to a
greater number of women. It would provide contraceptive services to



- 31 -
women who want to space births or who want to stop child bearing and
intensify Government activities in IEC programs in the area of family
life education, STD and AIDS prevention. Greater NGO and private sector
involvement in family planning would include the development of
community-based distribution of contraceptives as specified in the
Government's Statement of Development Policy for SAL IV. The Program
would carry out technical and program management training for staff
providing MCH/FP services at all levels and would institute regular
supervision and monitoring of these activities.
84.    Measure 13:  Development of sustainable essential druRs
procurement and cost recovery systems. The Government would develop and
implement efficient procedures for the procurement, distribution and
management of essential drugs supplies. The management of this system
would be decentralized and would involve community participation through
facility level management committees to be set up in accordance with
legislation already adopted (Annex llb) under the Program. Distribution
systems would be set up, to ensure that adequate supplies of basic
generic drugs are regularly available in health facilities. The
essential drugs program would be linked to the cost recovery system and
would mobilize domestic funds for financing critical non salary
operating costs which the budget connot fully finance. These systems
would draw on the limited but promising initiatives by bilateral and NGO
agencies. A key element in their development would be involvement of the
representatives of beneficiary communities in the management of stocks
and funds which would strengthen decentralized management in the sector.
This will rationalize the use of household expenditures on health care
and stimulate increased community activity in PHC.
85.     To enable the MSP to procure essential drugs through competitive
bidding, the Government has adopted a Presidential Ordonnance which
abolishes the current monopoly of TOGOPHARMA by authorizing direct
procurement by the MSP of essential generic drugs for the development
and implementation of the system and to authorize the retention, by
individual facilities, of funds generated through cost recovery for drug
replenishment. It has promulgated an essential drugs list and would
prepare prescription guidelines for developing the systems. Under the
Program, the MSP's capacity to procure essential drugs directly through
ICB, would be stren&then through training, technical assistance and
operational support (Annex lla). The MSP would develop and put in place
with support from PPF funds, prior to effectiveness, an adequate
accounting system and carry out training for staff and health committee
members who would manage cost recovery funds.
86.    Measure 14:  Intensification of population and health education
activities. The Government recognizes that educating all sections of
the population on the objectives of its population and health policies
constitutes a key element in its efforts to implement these policies.
Under its sector reform program it proposes to strengthen ongoing IEC
work in mobilizing community participation in personal and health
promotion, cost recovery, essential drugs and early recourse to basic
care. Special emphasis would be given to creating greater public
awareness of the uses and availability of preventive and curative



- 32 -
services. The program would mobilize communities to develop new
attitudes among individuals and targeted groups towards personal health
assessment, disease prevention, diarrheal infections control, malaria
control and other parasitic disease prevention, family planning
practice, nutrition, STD/AIDS prevention, personal hygiene, water and
waste disposal practices. To assist in these activities, the MSP has
establish a Health Education Division that would coordinate regional
level activities in this area.
87.    Measure 15t  Strengthening of Primary Health Care services.  The
Government's PHC delivery program would be strengthened through
increased allocation of non-wage operating inputs, supplies, transport
and fuel, the lack of which in the past paralysed services especially in
rural areas. Under the Program, technical and logistic support would be
provided to MSP in the preparation of diagnostic and prescriptive
guidelines and in training of field staff to use them. As budgetary
allocations would finance more non salaried operating costs, basic
diagnostic and curative supplies, including essential drugs, would be
provided to all operating facilities thereby extending PHC coverage and
improving quality and effectiveness of existing services. Such support
would focus on the dominant diseases (para. 43) and on mobilizing
community commitment to implementing the PHC program.
'e)     Measures to strengthen personnel performance and
management:
88.    Measure 16: Introduction of a computerized personnel management
system. As part of its sector management reforms, the Government
proposes to strengthen the Personnel Division wlthin MSP to manage
personnel files and career development to improve personnel performance.
The Government would establish a computerized personnel management
system within MSP. Within this system, the responsibilities and
functions of staff at all levels would be defined, and personnel
redeployed accordingly by 1992. Under the Program, appropriate technical
and management training would be provided to key staff who would carry
out regular supervision activities.
89.    Measure 17. Institution of regular in-service trainin8 in the
sector. An initial inventory of technical personnel in the sector
reveals inadequacies in skill- needed for basic curative and preventive
care. Each year, the Governmei. will carry out an in-service training
program that would strengthen basic technical training and that would
inform all staff of the details of the Government's new policy and
operational strategy. Operational and logistic support would be provided
to annual in-service training, to be executed in a decentralized way
with the Regional Directorates playing the key role in managing the
activities in their respective regions.
E.     Costs and Impact of the Proposed Program
90.    Costs and Financing. Analysis of past sector expenditures show
serious underfunding as there were drastic declines in the share of the
sector in the Government's recurrent budget. By 1987 this had fallen to



- 33 -
4.42. Since then, the Government has accorded higher priority to
population and health programs and demonstrated strong commitment to
redress past underfunding. Budgetary allocations to the sector, have
been increased in 1990 to CFAF 5.5 billion (US$18.3 million equivalent,
62 of the total recurrent budget) have been raised in 1991 to CFAF 6.4
billion (US$21.5 million equivalent). The Government has committed
itself to raising this level of funding annually by an average of 7.52
during adjustment period 1991-94. However, this would not be sufficient
to offset past underfunding in the sector and the effects of rapid
population growth over the past decade. Additional budgetary funding
would therefore be needed to (a) finance the package of sector reforms,
(b) assist the Government to rehabilitate existing facilities to make
them operational, (c) provide operational inputs to rehabilitated
facilities, and (d) provide counterpart funds for programs funded by
external donors.
91. Assuming a minimum package of reforms and services to be
implemented over the period 1991-94, total capital and recurrent costs
of the Program are estimated at CFAF 52.7 billion, (US$175.5 million
equivalent) at current prices. Of this, CFAF 28.8 billion would
represent the cost of those priority inputs and activities needed to
effect the sought adjustment and revitalize the sector, broken down in
percentages as follows: essential drugs and supplies 38.9Z,
rehabilitation and re-equipment of existing facilities 262,
environmental sanitation 11.82, other institutional reforms and support
programs including decentralized management systems 23.32. About 512 of
the cost of the priority programs would go to vital non-salary operating
expenses, 112 would finance incremental salary bill generated by the
programs, and 382 would finance related investment costs. Government
expenditures in the sector during the period without adjustment would
amount to CFAF 23.9 million (Annex 3).   With the sector adjustment
domestic resources allocated to the Program would increase substantially
as follows.
92.    The Government proposes to finance CFAF 32.55 billion (US$108.0
million equivalent) from its own revenues during the adjustment period
(Annex 3). Cost recovery, to be instituted under the Program, would
generate an additional CFAF 2.02 billion (US$6.7 million equivalent).
The remaining gap requiring external financing would be ClAF 18.2
billion (US$60.5 million equivalent). The most far reaching impact on
the budget would be the redistribution of funds between salary and non-
salary operating expenses. The increases in budgetary allocation over
the period would go mainly to non-salary expenses raising the percentage
of such expenses in the sector budget from 23X in 1990 to 352 by 1994.
This transformation together with the institutional measures supporting
it (measures #6 and 10) constitutes a major element of sustainability
incorporated in the Program.
93.    Financial impact. The Program would ensure that by 1994, a
minimum package of basic services can continue to be provided without
recourse to exceptional funding. The adoption of program budgeting as a
procedure for resource allocation would rationalize resource use and
reduce waste. Minimum funding for critical inputs, especially operating



- 34 -
costs, would be assured thereby further improving system efficiency and
effectiveness. The adoption of cost recovery would rationalize
household expenditures on health, increase domestic funds for critical
inputs and contribute to program sustainability. The promotion of NGO
and private sector initiatives in the sector would significantly
increase domestic investment in the sector. The Program would channel
external aid to priority programs and would ensure that required
counterpart funds are provided in the sector budget. With better
external aid coordination, the Government and external funding agencies
would concentrate resources in activities that are cost effective and
financially sustainable.
94.    Budgetary impact.  The reforms proposed under the Program require
substantial spending increases which under current austere budgetary
conditions could only be fully met if additional external funding is
provided over the adjustment period. Togo's medium-term budgetary
outlook is characterized by the expectation of continued fiscal
constraint (paras. 39 and 40). Fiscal and non-fiscal receipts
(exclusive of external grants) are expected to grow at a rate below the
rate of GDP growth. The Government has limited capacity to expand
revenues except through base broadening measures. Under this scenario,
Togo would need, over the medium-term, substantial external support to
meet its budgetary and balance of payment needs. Even with external
financing (grants and loans) expected to range from CFAF 30-35 billion
per year over the medium term, there are significant budgetary gaps
envisaged, averaging CFAF 6-7 billion (US$25.0 million equivalent)
during 1991-94. As noted in paragraph 40, Togo's balance of payment
needs are expected to be substantially met by 1995. Meanwhile, these
gaps would need to be closed by a combination of new assistance and debt
relief, including this operation and the Fourth SAL.
95.    Economic impact.  The Program would have significant short and
long term effects on the economy: by reducing mortality and the
incidence of highly debilitating ailments, it would increase labor
productivity, an important factor of individual performance and
enterprise competitiveness. The impact would be specially felt where
women are concerned, as they adopt family planning and use MCH services
for safe motherhood, a process known to have long-term (inter-
generational) as well as short-term beneficial effects. By reducing the
burden of rapid population growth on Government's development programs,
it would improve the prospects for real socioeconomic progress. By
extending the rationalization of public spending, decentralization, and
domestic resource mobilization efforts to a new sector, it would
introduce a strong elements of sustainability in that sector, and deepen
the structural adjustment process with possible spillover effects on
even more sectors (e.g. education).
IV.    THE CREDIT
A. Rationale for IDA Involvement
96.    The goals of Government's Population and Health Sector Adjustment
Program (para. 70) are fundamentally in line with: (a) the Bank's sector



- 35 -
strategy on population and health in sub-Saharan countries, which
accords importance to expanding family planning and safe motherhood
activities, and emphasizes primary health care and meeting the needs of
communities in rural areas; and (b) IDA's country assistance strategy
for Togo, which focusses on reforms to be undertaken under the
Structural Adjustment Program, and gives prominence to reform in human
resources sectors. The Government's program addresses systemic
constraints on the effectiveness of domestic and donor-funded
investments, providing a strong justification for Bank support though a
sector specific adjustment credit. By so participating, IDA can
continue to advise the Government on complex sectoral issues, help solve
Program implementation problems, and to the mobilization of additional
resources to support Togo's human resources development effort. Such
support should assist the Government to pursue sensitive programs in the
area of population and family planning which have long term implications
for growth.
B.     Objective and Description of the Sector Adjustment Credit
97.    Objectives:  The key objective of the proposed operation would be
to support an initial phase of the Government's Program described in
Part III, specially the Action Plan (Section c), by providing quick-
disbursing funds without which the Government's priority programs
defined by its policy and strategy for the sector would be at short term
risk. In essence, the credit is intended to secure adequate financing
for the sector while the Government addresses the major constraints
identified during Program preparation to translate slated priorities
into reality. In particular, such adequate financing would help the
Government strengthen the policy framework for the sector, introduce
internal and external efficiency measures, provide and mobilize more
resources for the sector. The credit generally seeks to help the
Government to improve sector performance on a sustainable basis. The
credit would finance general imports, subject to a negative list. It
would follow the execution of a plan of monitorable actions and progress
in key areas would be considered tranche release conditions (para. 100).
In addition, tranche release would be contingent upon the existence of a
macro-economic framework considered satisfactory to IDA for the
implementation of the sector adjustment program.
C.     Program Financing and Allocation of Credit Proceeds
98.    Size of Credit and co-financing.  The cost of the Program is
estimated at CFAF 52.1 billion or about US$175.5 million, including
capital and recurrent costs, over the period 1991-94. Government would
contribute the equivalent of about US$108.0 million to finance the
program. This contribution follows from commitments under the Structural
Adjustment Program, under which Government would raise the allocation of
the national budget for health from 6Z to 8Z by 1994. Government also
intends to initiate a cost recovery program as part of the reform
effort, which would generate, conservatively, CFAF 2.0 billion (US$6.7
million) over the program period. The Federal Republic of Germany
expects to contribute about US$5.6 million to support the Program's
activities in the Central Region, and a further US$3.6 million to



- 36 -
support population programs. With a proposed IDA credit of US$14.2
million, additional financing of US$37.6 million (representing about
20 X of the total cost of the Program) would be needed to ensure the
successful implementation of the reforms. During a meeting with its
majors donors in the sector, (October 29-31, 1990), the Government
obtained commitment for cofinancing the Program from the EC, France,
AfDB, UNDP, UNFPA and UNICEF. The exact amounts of their commitments
would be established during bilateral negotiations with the Government.
99.   Tranching  The credit would be released in four tranches, the
first of US$4 million upon effectiveness of credit, and the remaining
(two of US$4 million each and one of US$2.2 million) upon satisfactory
completion of tranche release conditions outlined below (para. 104). The
mplementation of the program will be reviewed by September of each year
to coincide with the preparation of annual budgets in Togo. Co-
Financiers would disburse their funds according to their own procedures,
which would be discussed and agreed during forthcoming bilateral
consultations.
D.     Review of the Program
100.   The Government (CTCS, para. 73) would be responsible for
providing documentation for the annual reviews. The specific measures
to be supported by the proposed credit are set out in the Sector Policy
(Annex 1) and summarized in the Policy Matrix or Action Plan (Annex 2).
In addition to the macro-economic framework requirement (para. 98),
disbursements would be conditional upon satisfactory completion of the
specific tranche release conditions outlined belows
Key conditions for Tranche Release*
(a)    For Credit Effectiveness (expected in May 1991), Government would
haves
1.    established financial management and accounting
system in the MSP satisfactory to IDA. (#7)
2.   provided evidence that budgetary allocations
satisfactory to IDA have been made in the 1991
budget for the health sector.
3.    provided evidence satisfactory to IDA that all staff
redeployed in the five Regional Directorates of MSP have been
reassigned and taken up their functions. (#4, 11)
(b)    For 2nd Tranche Release (tentatively foreseen for April, 1992),
Government would have:
1. put in place a macro economic framework consistent with the
objectives of the Sector Adjustment Program.



- 37 -
2. reached an agreement with IDA ont (i) the level of funds to
be allocated to the various services in the health sector in
the 1992 budget: and (ii) the sectoral investment proposals
to be included in the PIP for 1992-1994; and (b) (i)
expenditures actually incurred for the health sector during
the execution of the 1991 budget meet targets initially
agreed upon with IDA; and (ii) investment proposals carried
out in the health sector during 1991 were consistent with
those included in the PIP for 1991-1993. (#7, 8, 9)
3. achieved substantial progress in the reorganization and
strengthening of MSP. (#3, 4, 5)
4. achieved satisfactory progress in the execution of the Action
Plan for improving access to family planning services and
Primary Health Care. (#12, 14, 15)
5. established an appropriate system for procurement and
distribution of essential drugs, including adequate
mechanisms for cost recovery
(c)    For 3rd Tranche Release (foreseen for April, 1993). Government
would have:
1. put in place a macro-economic framework consistent with the
objectives of the Sector Adjustment Program.
2. reached an agreement with IDA on: (i) the level of funds to
be allocated to various services in the health sector in the
1993 budget; and (ii) the sectoral investment proposals to be
included in PIP for 1993-1995; and (b) (i) expenditures
actually incurred for the health sector during the execution
of the 1992 budget meet targets initially agreed upon with
IDA; and tii) investment proposals carried out in the health
sector during 1992 were consistent with those included in the
PIP for 1992-1994. (t7, 8, 9)
3. achieved satisfactory progress in the execution of the
training program for MSP staff. (#17)
(d)    For 4th Tranche Release (foreseen for April, 1994), Government
would have:
1. put in place a macro-economic framework consistent with the
objectives of the Sector Adjustment Program.
2. (a) reached agreement with IDA on: (i) the level of funds to
be allocated to various services in the health sector in the
1994 budget: and (ii) sectoral investment proposals to be
included in the PIP for 1994-1996; and (b) (i) expenditures
actually incurred for the health sector during the execution
of the 1993 budget meet targets initially agreed upon with
IDA; and (ii) investment proposals carried out in the health



- 38 -
sector during 1993 are consistent with those included in the
PIP for 1993-1995. (#7, 8)
* (measures in parenthesis indicate policy measure to be
monitored)
E.     Linkages to Overall Macroeconomic Adjustment
101.   The Government's Program for population and health is a key
element in the country's overall structural adjustment program, for
which a structural adjustment credit has been negotiated. The SAL
provides an overall framework for sectoral reforms in the areas of
public sector management and poverty reduction. Certain key policy and
budgetary measures, critical to the effectiveness of the sector program,
including conditions involving budgetary review of social spending
needs, would be used to reinforce implementation of the spending norms
in the sector adjustment program. The annual budgetary review is
included in tranche release conditions for the proposed credit. The
sector adjustment program would (i) support the growth (para. 95) and
equity objectives of the SAL; and (ii) deepen and internalize public
sector reforms in the areas of program budgeting. It would carry out
improvements in systems and skills development and staff deployment to
ensure effective resource use and justify the transfer of public funds
to priority population and health programs. The Program is a first major
step in providing basic health and family planning services to
vulnerable groups in urban and rural areas whose needs have remained
largely unmet as the economic crisis deepened. In pursuance of the
social dimension of adjustment (SDA) objectives of SAL IV, the Program
would be a vehicle for funding critical operational inputs to basic
services the respond to needs of the poorest segments of the population.
The CTCS would report regularly to the SDA committee, set up under SAL
IV, on progress achieved in meeting these objectives.
102.   The Program would be financed in large part by the Government's
own resources (para. 98), but these would not be enough given current
and projected budgetary constraints. The Government would therefore need
incremental general balance of payment support to enable it to meet the
Program's budgetary requirements for the reforms and for providing
critical services to the most needy segments of the population. Such
funding would be needed beyond SAL IV, i.e. over a four-year period,
which is the minimum necessary to put all the reform measures in place
and ensure Program sustainability.
F.     Implementation of the Program
103.   Preparation Status.  Preparation of the Government's sector
adjustment program is well advanced. The Government has adopted medium
term sector policies on population and health. Operational norms for
priority service delivery programs as well as monitorable indicators for
1991-94 have been translated into estimates of budgetary requirements
for the period, which have been reviewed and have been incorporated into
the Ministry's 1991 budget report. In February 1990, Government split
the HSP into two ministries: one responsible for public health and



- 39 -
population policy (MSP), and one responsible for social affairs and
women in development (MASCF) and an analysis of the relative roles of
the two Ministries in the area of population and health shows that there
is no duplication of functions. Agreements have been reached with the
Government on the need for a social policy analysis, to be financed
under a PPF, that would define Government priorities in social
mobilization and community education in support of family planning and
other health activities. This analysis would enable the Government to
prioritize and focus support programs within the new Ministry of Social
and Women's Affairs. An inventory of existing facilities (physical,
personnel, equipment, operational levels, populations served) has been
carried out and the data have been used in developing new budgetary
estimates. Draft texts for legislation to support reforms under the
Program were reviewed and are being promulgated. A technical committee
has revised minimum essential drugs lists for facilities at various
levels. An additional PPF of US$500,000 has been made available to
enable the Government to complete tasks required prior to credit
effectiveness. Government procurement practices, which have been used
and modified during the first three SALs, were reviewed during appraisal
and found generally consistent with Bank practices. Social programs
covering adult education, community development, women in development,
training for social workers and youth activities included in the Program
would be managed by responsible units in the Ministry of Social and
Women's Affairs under the supervision of CTCS.
104. Management of the Program. The program would be managed within
existing MSP structures. It was designed with due cognizance of current
management weaknesses in the MSP. Consequently, program development was
used as a training process for central and field staff. The involvement
local communities and the establishment of management committees would
develop the system into a demand driven program. The timing of specific
measures and specific intervention of technical assistance support
during critical stages of implementation would make the program
manageable. The reforms in the central and regional directorates would
streamline management procedure to reduce past blockages in the system.
Individual directorates of the MSP would be responsible for the regular
daily management and administration of the specific actions in the
program that are within their areas of responsibility. Their actions
would be supervised and coordinated by the sector management committee
(CTD/MSP) which would be responsible for implementing the Government's
sector adjustment program (para. 75). This committee will be assisted
by a small technical secretariat within the Directorate of Planning of
the MSP in carrying out procurement, accounting, disbursement and
reporting functions. The technical secretariat (including five personss
a Coordinator/Planner, a Financial Officer, a Civil Works Officer, a
Secretary/Administrative Assistant, and a Messenger Driver) would also
act as the secretariat of the inter-ministerial coordination committee
(the CTCS) (para.73). The Government would appoint the head of this
secretariat and ensure that it is fully staffed and operational before
credit effectiveness. The need for such a secretariat would disappear
at the end of the program period as management reforms and institution
building activities under the program are expected to improve the
capacity of each unit of the MSP to manage its assigned tasks.



- 40 -
105.   The CTD/MSP will develop into a sector management, supervision
and evaluation mechanism. Each program director would be responsible
for the successful implementation of activities in the operation within
his purview. Service delivery activities in the program would be
managed and supervised at the regional level by a regional head of
programs who would assist national directors. To ensure early start-up
of the operation, the Government has given assurance that both the
national and regional program managers will be confirmed in their posts
by May 31, 1991. Because a major feature of the operation is to
institute a demand-driven population and health care system, communities
to benefit from the program would be increasingly involved in its
management, as the cost recovery program is being put in place.
Consequently, annual program budget reviews with the communities would
provide a vehicle for tailoring service delivery to their identified
needs. The Government would give assurances that management committees
for each facility, which include members selected by beneficiarj
communities, will be established and given basic management training,
before the cost recovery and essential drugs programs are introduced.
106.   Procurement and Disbursement.  The proposed credit would finance
100 percent of the CIF cost of eligible imports, excluding luxury
consumer goods, defence items and goods intended for military use.
Direct import by the Government, the public and private entities will
be procured according to simplified international competitive bidding
procedures for goods estimated to cost the equivalence of US$1.0 million
per contract or more. Goods estimated to cost less than US$1.0 million
would be procured through price quotations from at least three reputable
suppliers eligible under IDA Guidelines. Imports by the private sector
for contracts estimated to cost less than US$1.0 million would be in
accordance with normal commercial practices in Togo, which are
acceptable to IDA. Whenever possible, quotations from eligible suppliers
from two countries would be sought. Financing of imports of petroleum
products and foodstuffs would together not exceed US$4.6 million of
disbursements under the credit.
107.   Togo introduced a new tariff code as of January 1. 1990 and the
Government has agreed to study the possibility of including duties and
taxes on imports for foreign-financed projects, reducing incentives for
customs evasion. The effectiveness of the implementation of the customs
system will be examined in the context of the diagnostic study of the
Finance Wlinistry. The Government instituted a pre-shipment inspection
system in 1988 but suspended the contract in early 1989 claiming that it
had led to a decline in customs receipts due to a diversion of trade to
neighboring countries. However, upon the conclusion of the diagnostic
study of the Finance Ministry, the Government is prepared to reintroduce
a pre-shipment system.
108.   Accounting, auditing and reporting. The Government will establish
a special account, on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, in the
Central Bank to facilitate disbursement. Upon effectiveness, IDA will
make an initial disbursement of CFAF 380 million into the account. The
account would be replenished regularly and up to the limit of the first
tranche on the basis oft (i) fully documented reimbursement applications



- 41 -
for imports contracts exceeding US$100,000 and (ii) statements of
expenditures (SOEs) for import items between US$10,000 and US$100,000
Disbursement applications should be aggregated with a minimum
replenishment of US$500,000. The Government will entrust the ECEAO with
the responsibility for preparation of withdrawal applications under the
credit and for collection of documents to be furnished to ID in support
of such applications. These records and accounts, including those for
SOEs, will be maintained and audited each fiscal year by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA; the audit report will be provided to the
Association not later than four months after the end of each fiscal
year. All documents and supporting expenses incurred by using SOEs will
be kept and made available to IDA monitoring missions for review.
109.   The Ministry of Finance would allocate annually budgeted funds to
the health sector as agreed with IDA and in the amounts stated in the
Government's statement of development policy for SAL IV and in the
health sector policy statement. At negotiations, the Government would
give assurance thats (i) all program accounts would be audited annually
by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA; (ii) the Government would
submit the audit reports not later than four months after the end of
each fiscal year, beginning in 1991, (iii) the Government and IDA would
jointly review the annual budget allocation for the sector; (iv) agree
that actual recurrent and investment expen itures had been made in
accordance with established spending norm  and criteria; and (v) that
the CTCS would summit to IDA quarterly reports on the implementation of
the program and on spending levels achieved for non-wage expenditures.
Beginning in 1991, the Government and IDA would jointly review the first
of the investment end recurrent budgets to ensure that norms and
criteria contained in sector policy and operational policy are being
respected.
PART V. BENEFITS, RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT
110.   Benefits.  Overall, the Program would significantly contribute to
improving the well being and productivity of the Togolese population by
introducing major improvements in health service delivery and the,ir
accessibility to disadvantaged groups, particularly women and children.
It would also tackle the problem of rapid population growth with its
daunting implications for future economic development. First, it would
increase public awareness of the need to address the population problem
and would make family planning services more accessible to couples in
all regions of the country.  Improved MCH services would contribute to
reduce maternal mortality and morbidity as pre-post-natal and delivery
care, especially in rural areas become more available. Second, the
coverage and quality of curative services would be improved especially
for rural women and children, and disease prevention would acquire new
momentum. Third, an important systemic benefit would be a vajor
improvement in the operating efficiency of the system, including
strengthened sector management, improved resource allocation and
budgetary procedures, decentralization and staff redeployment, and



- 42 -
domestic resource mobilization through cost recovery. The groundwork
would also be set for improved aid coordination.
11.   Risks and risk management.  Three risks are associated with this
operation. First, Government commitment may wane as it begins to
implement measures agreed upon with IDA. This risk would be minimal at
the beginning owing to the national consensus, achieved during
preparation of the sector policy. The inter-ministerial program
monitoring committee (CTCS) would ensure continued adherence to and
timely implementation of the Action Plan, through periodic reviews.
Tranche conditionality would provide an effective means for monitoring
the level of Government commitment and ensuring that actions agreed upon
are carried out. Specific SAL conditionalities would buttress the Sector
Credit provisions during Program inception. Second, Government may lack
the capacity to implement the program. The programs are designed to be
implemented as this capacity is strengthened through ongoing training,
selective technical assistance and a project lunch workshop that will
define functions of key actors in the program. Annual programming
workshops and monitoring by the CTCS will strengthen Government capacity
to implement the program. Frequent reviews with CTCS would ensure that
the Government makes full use of all the instruments designed to
minimize this risk. A number of institutional measures. including the
streamlining of MSP structures and unit functions, would be carried out.
Staff capacity would be strengthened through on-the-job and specialized
training and through the selective use of technical assistance support.
Initial and annual programming workshops and monitoring activities by
IDA would further minimize this risk. Third, poor macro-performance may
affect the level of resources allotted to the sector or may interfere
with proposed reforms. To manage this situation, appropriate
conditionality would link IDA support to the sector to continued
satisfactory macroeconomic management. Furthermore, strong donor
commitment to Togo's macro-economic development and sector program would
provide the overall support the country would need as a result of the
current austere budgetary situation.



- 43 -
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
112.   1 am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and would benefit the most
vulnerable segments of the populatiort of Togo. I therefore recommend
that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
January 23, 1991
Attachments



ANNEX I (a)
REPUBUC OF TOGO
NATIONAL POPULATION POUCY



-1-.                    AANNEX I (a)
rage 1. eL24
SECTION 1: TOGOS DEMOGRAPHIC SITUATION
The data ae drawn from three general censuses conducted in 1960. 1970 sad 1981, as well as two
demographic surveys conducted in 1961 and 1971. These sources have 8gps becuso the vital sascs office
did not provide complete data.
Indirect methods were used to improve the quality of ose data and to enable us to make estimates
based on the major indexes relating to population movements.
In 1922, the Togolse population was esdmated at about 730,000, and n 1957 the French colonial
administration measued it at close to 1,100,000 million. It stood at about 1,440.000 when the country became
independent in 1960. The March-Apri census of 1970 produced a figure of 1.950,646, and this rnse to
2,719,567 in the census of November 1981.
The age structure is very young: those under 15 years old made up 48% of the populaion in 1960 and
50%, or one of eveoy two Togoleso, in 1981. Those over 55 declined from 8% of the population in 1960 to
7% in 1981. The woding-age segment meanwhile went from 44% to 43%. These data show tht the Togolese
population become even younger from 1960 to 1981. a common occmuence when mortality declines and fertlity
remains constat.
Distibution by sex shows that since 1960 ther have been mmo women than men, the ratio being 90
men to 100 womno. This imbalance diminished in 1981 since the ratio changed to 95 men to 100 women from
95 men for 100 women in 1970 [sicl.
Poplaioo dKounic
The Togoese population's ine  from 1,950,646 in Aprl 1970 to 2.719,567 in Novenber 1981
coresponds to a totld growth of 39.4% or an avesage annual growth tate of 2.9%. Because of the nnal
exodus, the rual population grew faser dutng tht peiod.
The urban population accounted for 21.2% of the total population in 1970 and 25.2% in 1981. The
annual growth nrae of the urban population (4.4%) exceeds by far the annual growth rate for the country as a
whole.
The gmowth rate varies greatly from one region to another. The ise in the annual population growth
ate is due to failing death rates over the period 1961-81. The general mortality rate declined from 29% in
1961 to 19% in 1971 and 17% in 1980. Accoring to United Nations estimates, the re fell to 15.2% in 1985.
The infantile mortlity rate dropped ftom 127% in 1961 to 99% in 1971, and to 96% in 1985.
During those same penods, the birth rate declined from 50.2% in 1960 to 47.8% in 1970 and has since
remained at that level.



-2-                          CANNEX 1 (a)
Page 2 of 24
Durig tose periods inwwonal migaory moveents seem to bave had a negligbl, effect on
populton growth.
Population chges therefore stemmed from inteation betwe  birth and deah rats. The rise in the
annua gwth rte pror to 1960 and aher 1w70 could be explaid by the sustained drp in the death rate and a
higb, stable level of fettility. This tunslAes into an acceleration of Togomese popuain g8vth, especially
from 1970 to 1981. If this acceleration continues. the populn will double in 27 yrms. Aa icQe   in the
amud gowth ate in excess of 3% wil cause the popultion to double in lss tbd  25 yeas.
Factoss linked to rnMid pon W ow
Since Togo gained idependen, economic and social development progrms have resulted in ipoved
living condit, the elimination of deay disas  (yellow fever and smallpox) and a decline in unsmissible
childhood disease tnks to the  gigmmI &       de vac ntiman (FEV) [exede vacction progun and
beath oducaton.
During that snme period. the followving sociocultuzl and economic factrs kept fertlity from declining:
Age at fist maag has changed little.
Age at first pregnancy has also changed little.
A steadily shoreg interval between biths has rased the ferlithy ate to more thn six
cdn per wom_ duing hbr childb n yes
Socil pesures connue to favor fetlity durig the entire chidbaing pod.
Modes of producuion encourage lre familis and favor chidbi.
SECTION 2: CONSEQUENCES OF THE DEMOGRAPHIC SrTUATION
It is boooming ever more widely acknowledged that thee is a close connection between a population's
demogmphics and its developmt A populati's size and distibution and changes therein are factors
detemining qualityoflife indicao  such as:
-      the food siation,
living stbndrds (ddnking water, htealth conditions),
sanitation and education.
De _ogphic change in Togo has reqed enormous invesmet i   the producve and social sectors
and for job catio   Despite a comendbble offort by the Stte, not all the investment goals have boen met.
In view of the structue of the prst population (young) and its gowth rate (2.9% pet year), the State's
objecives may prove difficult to realize.



-3-
ANNEX I (a)
Page 3 of 24
Sevea sceios basmg futu  Togoloe  population gowth on differnt assumptions have been
consded:
In the first scenio, the popuaton mainis its 2.9% gowth rate and the number of childrn
per women remains at mote thn six. This will bnng the poputn to 8.S milion in 2015
and 17 nillion in 2035. In 2015 all invesument would have to be multiplied by two in order
to mnuinti cumnt progress in the vanous sectorst and in 2035 thy would have to be
multiplied by fout. This would man raising the number of physia  from the present 160 to
440, and incrtaing the number of beds from the prsnt 4,000 to 22,000 [sicl in 2015. for
2035 these figurms would nre to 920 physician and 23,200 beds.
In the second scenuio, the number of children per woman falls to 4 so tht the population
rises to 7.5 million in 2015 and 13 million in 2035. This would equire apciably les
investment: 400 physicians and 10,100 beds would be noeded in 2015, and 680 physicians and
17,30 beds in 2035.
In the third soenario, in which the number of chilen per woman faL to 2, the population
rises to 6.5 million in 2015 and 9 million in 2035. This would require much les inve-%nent:
360 physicia  and 9,100 beds in 2015, and 490 pbyicias and 12,500 beds in 2035.
In the area of education, rapid (2.9%) grwth will incse the school-age populaion from 600,000 at
present to 1.6 milion in 2015, which will make it impssible to maintin the primay enrollment eiel already
acbived. A less rapid incrs (four chin per won) wil augmet the schoold-a  popultion to 1.1
mfillion in 2015. This clung will requie  ising the number of primary shool tcer from 9,000 to 24,000
in the first sonio, 20,500 in the second and 12,000 in tho third.
In the rapid growth scnouio it would be difficult to incse the eoment r  at the sconday level
for girls, but tht will be noceszy to prvent ealy motrood and tho dff ties connected with the
(injeffecivo pacption of womn in economic and socid life.
The impact of a high popultion growth rae will be telt in the area of agricultural production, where .
reduction of farming pr inhabitant has already been recorded, beca  of the absence of resourcs ncessary to
boost agricultural output.
With respect to the urban growth rae, the population of Lorn6 will rse to 2.2 million in the first
scenario, 2 million in the second and 1.8 million in the third, which will entail at leas a quadrupling of urban
services.
SECTION 3: GOALS AND OBIECrlVES
The Stale's fundamental objective is to improve iving conditions in order to enable the gel public
to ptcipte fully i economc and social development. The ultimate goal of the govemnment's population
polic is to hold population down to a rae compatible with economic and social development



~4..                          ANNEX 1 (a)
Page 4 o Z74
GOALS
The goas of tbis policy consist of:
promodug the health and well-being of moes and children;
inducing the majoity of the populaion to spae births and egule fertility;
achieving a more equitable distribution of the popution between urban and nual aras.
To attain thoseoals, the govenmment intends to:
1.     Promote the education of the Togolnes public to populin problems and th rpussions of
rapid population growth on econo_c and social development, as soon as possible.
2.     Provide each citizen with the nosay informtion and edution concerig the advantage of
family planning designed to enable each family and the nation to achieve a susained ate of
economic development
3.     Educate the young in matters of deougrphy, sexuality, feilty rgulat  and family
planning befonr they reach early marig ag. The objc of such a propm would be to
help the young to pr_at i a eponsible mnr and keep family siZe wthin the limits of
their child-ising capacty.
4.     Make available to the neal public the svmices and iumation n_say for biulh spacing
and family planing, so that fertlity regulation can be practiced by all.
5.     Provide fertlity regulaion prorm at affordable cost, in keeping with the noeds of the
gener public.
6.    Improve the collection and analysis of demogaphic data and thus achieve better integrtion "I
demographic factors in the process of economic and social development planning.
7.     Reinforce rual and urban develpmet plaing in order to improve living conditions in the
cutysde and slow the ual exodus.
8.     Begin a ptogamm of support to the eldery.



5                     ~~~~~~ANNEX 1 (a )
?age _ or 74
SECTION 4: THE STATUS OF WOMEN
Assessment of the situation
Women make up more than half (51.3%) of the Togolese population and constitute a primary force in
the economic, social. cultual and political spheres. The importwnce of their tole manifests itself in
nacroeconomic and mwecom     erms: they are the main source of agncultural labor, contribute to business
activities and ae responsible for bringing up the next generation.
Their integration into the development process continues to be held back by:
the absence of statistical data on the overall situation of women, especially on their
participation in the national economy;
-      the excessive workload plced on women, who have to play childbearing, nurtung, economic
and medical first-aid roles;
-      a high illiteracy rate among women;
-      the absence of coordinated programs designed to enhance the value of women's work;
-      a lack of capacities and compet    in  _ t;
ignorance of women about their roles in the deveopment prcess, which causes themn to be left
out of policy-making, planning, projects ad development pr ;ams
the inadequacy of intake infastruuctus  an ctures designed to give women recogition in
the rural sector and busie  activities;
the insufficiency of women's education and occupational trsining, which is reflected in a high
degree of ignorance and unawareness of their hunn rights;
the hardness of domestic chores and of caring for so many children, which constitute an
obstacle to the improvement of women's lives.
THE EFFORTS OF TIE STATE
Since independence, Togo has sought to improve women's living conditions, incremse their autonomy in
all fields and rise their status. Several measures reflect the govermment's concern, e.g., the creation of the
Union Nationale des Femmes du Togo (UNFT) [National Union of Women of Togol in 1972. and the Direction
Gen6rale de la Condition Feminine [Geneal Directorate for Women's Issuesi in 1977.
The implementation of women's food-producing programs, efforts to improve traditional procedutes for
processing and conserving agricultural and fishery products, the creation of activities generating income for
women and girls, women's functionlW literacy programs, the reclamaion of the environment. (watering places,
markets, health posts), and actions to familiarize women w;th the code of persons and the family were also
initiated for the purpose of improving the status of women.



T   |      l   *. |       a   .-   j  111         0    0
_;     S            llI        j                ai }    2{  t
i            it                    -1 i         Uii'1t  5    
I    I0Z                      p   .j..



ANNEX 1 (a)
Page 7 of 24
SECTION 5: YOUTH AND TRAINING
Tranine and orng vouth
Half the Togolese population is under IS yea  of age. This group constitutes one of the most reliable
potential resources on which to base development. But their contribution to the country's development requires
sizable investments in the health, education, nutrition, housing and other filds. Given its size in relation to the
adult population (work force). youth comtitutes a substatal burden for th community during a fairly long
period.
Preparing this youth group for a productive life and a positive role in economic, social and culturd life
constitutes one of the nation's chief tasks. However, these young people ar a social group at risk4 usually
afflicted with shotages, mortality and morbidity; and that puts a damper on the nationl effort to ivest for
their future.
Although the State has made many efforts to establisb infrsucus and socioeconomic equipment.
many insufficiencies are still evident in the following aas:
The total enrollment of 73% includes very limited coveratg for girls (32%), because of the
lack of means and insufficient awareness on the part of paents, which gives rise to inequalities
between rund a  urbn aeas. Gap in the teaching cutricul  provet youth from receiving
instruction in family life, envirmental management and populafion   s.
-      7The youth health situation renmi  preaous b   of the prvahlce of trnsmittable
diseases that contributo to an enormous loss refletd in a high mortality rt (nealy half of all
dats in the popuation ae of children under five yeas of age).
Inadeqate pesonal hygien and envionment health also keep the mortlity rule high, while ladc of
sex education encourages ealy pregnancmes and sexually tsmitted disases.
-      Inadequat family incomes bnng about a certain level of malnutrition and poor living
conditions.
Inadequate occupational tsaining is reponsible for a high crime rue which may, in the future,
contribute to a criminal and unproductive life.
GOAL
Youth trainig and organization is desgned to prepae both boys and gids for a productive life and tt 
develop their community spirit so that they can fully play their ol as citizen.
OBIECTIVES
The training and organization of youth seek mainly to:
-      train children and youth for a productive life;



-8-                       A~NNEX 1 (a)
Page 8 of 24
pride health and nutriton prtoectioo ensng the physicsl and intelctWal development of
youth.
guide end satisfy young people's legimate aspinraons and needs.
teach the youth of the informal sector about populion ptoblems thrugh structures in place or
to be created.
STRATEGIES
To achieve those objecives, the following sraegies must be put in place:
-      sensitize and educate pants so that they will play fuUy their ole of guide and mentor to their
child ;
-      develop ties between school and family (pasent-teachr associations);
-      improve heath services aimed at young people;
-      educate and guide young people to avoid social scourgsa such as alcoholism, snoking, drup,
pping. ptosituton, vagracy and ilicit abortion;
i!mprove and equitably dislribute school infstcus and oc lpatona and sociocutura
pprenticeships, and devise suitable progmms;
ingate educational progams on populaon and the family in  the fonml and informl
educaional system as a whole;
define and implement a policy for inrducng young people io the work fore.
SECTION 6: MOTHER AND CHILD HEALTH
In the awee of mother and child health, Togo faces the filowing problems:
teege morhood, which cuts shoft the girl's physical and intellectual development;
high-risk pregnMacies;
short intervals between prgnacies;
lack of appropriate inexpensive follow-up;



ANNEX I (a)
Page 9 of 24
wunded pregnancioe sad cladestine abortions lading to the need to treat incomplete
abortions;
regession to traditional pactioes in terns of the spacing of births and failure to adopt modern
replacement methods;
a new danger for future generations in the form of sexusay transmitted diseases, including
AIDS;
lack of undersnding of health reasons for spacing births;
shortening of the nuring period aod its repacement by so-called modem methods which
endanger the infants' health;
continual childbearing, which pmevents the mother from recovefing her strngt and the child
from developing properly;
mothers' involuntary neglect of their childron.
This situain ives nse to high levels of morbidity and mortality among mothers and children, and to
gynecological and obstetic complications which the exisng system is ill-equipped to handle.
Efforts mae bv the State
The government has made immense efforts to reduce ma l and infmtile morbidity and mortality,
viz.:
-      extension of holth i        since indence;
-      establishment of services in mother-ad-child care centers;
-      Progrmme National pour le Bien-tre Familial (PNBEF) I Natonal Program for Family
WelfarelI
-      encouaement of private efforts to promote family welfare (creation of the Association
Togolaise pour le Bien4tre Familial - ATBEF [Togolese Associaton for Family Welfarel):
creawon of a national agency to ensure family welfare in the economic, social and cultural
spheres (Direcon xdnrae des Affaiues Socales) (GCeneal Directe of Social Affairsi;
spping up of women's integration and ful participation in the development process in the
interest of their and their families' well-being (Direction Gendrale de la Condition
Feminine);
promotion of demographic research ad studies (Direcdon de la Statistique et l'Unite de
Recherche Demographique - URD (Directoate of Statistics and Unified Demographic
Researchl:



ANNEX I (a)
-10-                               Fage io ot 24
public educton in mattes of health, population and development (Soevice Natiomi
d'Educaion pour to SantE - SNES [Naonal Heagth Education Servicel and nual community
dewlopment;
-      Code des Persoones et de Ia Familte [Code ui Pemson and the Familyl;
-      enourgmnt of prolonged nursing (SNES, adjusmnt of wodking hours, maternity leave).
In spite of all those measures, the problems outlined above persist, for the fotlowing reasons:
-      inapproprat stategy and imprecise objocives of the national program designed to improve
mother-and-child health;
underutilization of available services due to lack of materials, geographic and social
inaccessibility of mother-and-child semces, taditional prcces and customs, social pressures,
insufficient information and education;
nonprtacipation of men in the actions ame at imWroving mot-and-child health.
GOAL
Impove the quality of life of mothers and childr
OBJECTIVES
Lower mother-and-child morbidity and morality rates.
-  nure good spacing of biths.
Pvent early pgancies.
Lower the percentage of anmic women and the peentge of toxemia of pfegnancy.
Educate the general publc in aUl aspects of mother-and-child health (sanitary, social, economic
and demogrpic).
STRATEGIES
Focus pimary health care on mother-and-child health.
Improve the range of mothr-and-chid care services and birth spacing at all the country's
health facilities.
hImpove the quality and accessibility of prenatal, childbirth, peinatal, postnatal and preschool
counseling services.
Diversify women's economic and social life through income-generating microprojects.



-1 1-.ANNEX I (a)
Ps80 11 or z4
Stgthe exsting prec aimd at inmaig the pari_citi  of wmn i te county's
eonomic, soial and politica life.
_Enoug  ft putcipaon of NMOs in moer4nd-hild cmre progm           f9ami pbning.
In its pnimy hat are program, 0t  pvemwti siH ampbsi  nWdo    ath mdato
and mor-andhild  car.
Mainai on ongoig education campaig on tde iane of modrmdchild            and
family wefr truwgh all the country's communiction channs.
The government wil conduct appropria  6d on taDiolM           prcte  ein to
mother-and-child cm in order to verfy tho h emna of those pratis.
-      Prevent ealy pregn    in girs under i yes old by to yer 2000.
-      Reduce frm 30 to 2S% the prportion of chlden below de weigtag curve by the yar
2000, and from 25 to 10% by 2015.
Raie vaccinaon coveap of chidrn below S yes of ap to 60% by 1990 and to 90% by
the year 2000.
Raise the use of family plang sric  by women of hildb n  pi  a eit 1O achieve
a utilization rae  of 10% by the year 2000 ad 25% in 2015.
SECTION 7: FAMILY PLANNING AND FERTILITY REGULATION
As_smo of thcetuo
The numeos cases of closely spaced peg    , high mutpartes. hig-rsk ppiuces, pr mu
dlives and teag prganci and bortion contute a sdgnific   public hmitb problm i tho tow. and
iningly in nual aies as well.
The decLu of traditional prlonegd  dng and seul absinence simod at protc   th helth of
moths and inft, t  adoption of ealy weaning with modem fons which people cannot alway afford.
and tho inadeqcy of sex educatiom and education about family lif all con _ibut to bigb fetlity ad an
increase in the rae of populton growth.



ANNEX I (a)
-12-                          Page 12 of 24
GOALS
Family plnning prrams aim to:
-      reduce mother-and-child morbidity and mortality by saing births and prevent high-nsk
pregancies;
-      enable each couple to scbedule births better in order to protect the bealth of the mother and
child;
emable eacb household to decide, in a responsible and free mnnner, the size of its family and
intervals between births;
help to combat STDs and AIDS;
pemit the defined target popuhltion to avail itself freely and responsibly of family health
services.
OBJECTIVE
The mother-and-child health/family planning progran will have the following objectives:
.nduce women to have children between ages 20 and 30;
- induce women to observe an interval of more tan two years between births;
induce women to avoid births of high rak [idil;
resolve problms of infertlity.
STRATEGIES
(a)    Legal, adminittve and cultunl measures:
Elimination of legal, administrve and cultural constrints preventing the practice of famdI-
planning, sucb as the law of July 31. 1920, concerig birth control 'propaganda.'
Raising of the minimum age at marriage to 18 years for women and 25 for men.
Formulation of regulations recomnding pmitd medical examinations for couples.
Formulation of regulations defining the population targed for family planning.
1.     Makdng contraceptive services available to any person of full age, male or female,
requesting them.



-13-                          ANNEX 1 (a)
-Page 13 of24
2.     Asumption of responsibility by a pant or guarian of any person less than 18 years
of age tequiring a contraceptive service.
3.     Authoization to the medial corps to give contaceptve devices to anyone at risk
(perso  with AIDS, multiprsu, teenage mothers).
-      Authorization to the private sector to partcipate in the family planning progam.
(b)    Sensitization and education of the population:
Extension of fanily health infomation and servces to rural arms and the professional and
corporate communities.
Public education on the use and effectiveness of all reversible fanily planning methods,
including natural ones.
Intensification of information, education and communication efforts relative to family planning.
Intensification of information, educ4tion and communication efforts relative to responsible
parenthood.
Public education at all levels in the health, social and demogaphic advantages of family
planning.
Eduction of men and women on the social and economic conasqm e of excessively frequent
childbith and the moral and economic reonsibility attaching to pocreaion.
Education of all poteial parent and young people concerning the usefulness of family
planning fomm a boelth, social, economic and demographic point of view.
The government will eonsure that adolescents of both sexes receive appropriate education with
special reference to preparation for fay life, including the role, rights and obligations ot
parents and the development of individual and cultural values.
Direct specific attention to the education and motivation of the rurl population concerning the
health. social and demographic aspects of family planning.
Integrate educadon in family planning, wherever possible, with trining programs for women.
men and young people.
(c)    Build up national competence in the implementation of population policy.
-      Define a training and retraining progrm  for those whose work involves carrying out policv
objectives.
Establish a ptogram  for the training and retraining of medical, paramedical and social workers
implementing family panning programs.



-14-                            ANNEX I (a)
Page 14 of 24
Step up family planin instruction in medical ad paranedical schools.
Introduce family planing normution and education in the currculums of social and
occupation  scbools and institutes.
(4)    Provision of services
Strengthen the sucturs of the National Progsam for Family Welfame.
-      Integrate family planning services into mother-and-child care activities, and strengthen them at
the samo tiOe.
-      Offer family panning servies at teduced prices, and include contreptive products among the
staple items sold in phanrmcies.
Make contasceptive services available to wome of full age seeking them.
Facilitate the completion of micr wojects in runa aats and enhance those aldy in existence
by adding family planning informaton an; services.
(e)    Sen/ce
The government will ensure that affordable family planing services are availabe to all couples and
individuals. National family planning programs will make available to those inteed various methods of
fertility egation so that all couples can make a fte and informed choice.
The government will improve the quity and effectiveness of family planning services and ther
supervision, including appropriate supplementary semces. It will exted those services as rapidly as possible to
all couples and all individuals of both sexes, especially in mtal aas. Family planning services will be made
avaiable to the general public by all appropiat mens possible:
-      integrated health care prgram (including mother-and-child and prmary care services);
-      organization of community-based distribution of contaceptive [devicesl;
-      distribution of contraceptive products through a network of outlets as put of the national
health progam.
The govemnment will Fhrmore make use of the innovative role which women's organiztions can
play with respect to improved access to family planning services and their effectiveness. The government will
ensure that fertlity regulation methods meet satsfactoy sandards eading qualty, effectiveness and safetv.
The government will also ensure that all couples and individuas who so wish will have access to
family planning services at subsidized cost.



-15-                             ANNEX I (a)
Page 15 of 24
(f)    Resath
-      Encoutage eeawch into traditional coutraceptive methods.
Encourage  sarch into problems relating to family planing in communities.
-      Enhance the meas of collecting heath statistics, especily those necesary for better
monitoring and evaluation of family planning efforts.
SECTION 8: SUPPORT FOR THE ELDERLY
Assessment of the situation
Improved living conditions and the longer life expecwacies produced by them will ines the
proportion of te population over 55 yeas of age in the yea  ahead. The disppaoance of the traditional forms
of support for thus disadvantaged group througb the extended family will create needs for economic, social and
cultural services. Nothing has been planned along those lines, but the effects of aging, chronic illnesses and
degenerative diseases will cause a host of problm.
Efforts made by the Stae
In anticipation of the prblem, the Stato has created the Togolese riment fund and the natioal
social security fund. Because of the country's economic difficulties, however, these two programs cover only a
minority of the population. The problem is furth  complicated by the high unemployment rate and low income
levels.
GOAL
Ensure a better life for the aged.
OBJECTIVES
Prepare adults for -A life of retienet.
Improve the living conditions of the elderly.
Set up adequate support struces for the eldedy.
STRATEGIES
Improve knowledge about the conditions under which the elderly live.
Define and set up support stuctures for the elederly.



-16-                          ANNEX 1 (a)
age I16 of 24
Organize a self-sufficiency system:
*     improved housing,
*     jobs for retired people who can still work,
*     creation of income-generating microprojec".
Improve the health of the elderly by:
training and retraining staff in the heath problems of the elderly,
ensuring the availability of adequate services with which to meet the medical needs of
the aged,
studying traditional pharmacy capable of helping the aged.
SECTION 9: INFORMATION, EDUCATION AND COMMUNICATION
Assessment of the situation
The means and channels of communication are not sufficiently developed to facilitate rapid circulation
of information elating to the economic and social development of the populaton. Consequently, important
target groups are not informed of the availability, uwefulness and advantages of programs and services
established for their development.
The rther low literacy rate hampers the dissemination of written infonration concerning development
efforts.
In sum, the underdevelopment of the information, education and conmnunication systems seriously
hinders the national development prognun.
The efforts of the State
The State training progamm succeeded in raising the liteacy level and reinforcing a general and
occupational training of the young. Given its limited means, the State encourages the participation of
households, private enterises and external donors to help finance the education of the young.
In considering what measurus to take to enhance the national development effort, the government
recognizes the need to inform and educate the general public with respect to the relationship between the
country's economic development and the population growth rate. To undertake that endeavor, the govemment
strengthened the ability of the statistics directorate to publish data on the population and other demographic.
economic and social variables. The news media - radio, TV and newspapers - have been strengthened to
facilitate the sensitization of conmunities to population and development problems.



-17-                        ANNEX I (a)
-17-                         Page 17 of 24
The government has initiated the regular holding of seminars and workshops dealing with development
and population. The minists responsible for the plan, natioral education and scientific reseacb, health, social
affairs and women's issues, ruara development and the interior are charged with publicizing development and
population problems.
GOAL
Make the general public aware of the comlation among economic, health and social demographic
phenomena. and help it to play a role in improving the nation's well-being and achieving sustained development
of the national economy.
OBJECTIVES
The program of information, education and communication concerning population issues pursues the
following objectives:
Intensify and improve the information ad education progams, especially those amed at
disadvantaged groups;
Intensify and itnprove education am; training progrms;
Prvide each citizen with infonnation on population problems, responsible parenthood and the
recommended solutions;
- Make planners and reseacers more knowledgeable about demographic problems;
.Sensitize the political, administrative and traditional authorities to the implications of rapid
population growth and the prblems comncted with it;
Educate the general public to the means available for the resolution of problems connected
with fertility (mternal and infantile mortality, clandestine abortion and malnutrition).
STRATEGIES
(a) Literacy education and occupational tsining
Step up literacy education and taining in the existing strucures by encouraging the
introduction of libraies and reading groups in the various regions.
Develop advanced training programs aimed at improving farming and artissnal production
techniques in mnen and women.
Encourage occupatonal training for young people and give them more thorough instruction in
population issues.
Step up the literacy program for men and women and integrate population education into all
litracy prgrams.



-18-.                       ANNEX I (a)
Page 18 of 24
(b) Education and tUining in the normal education system
Tnrin instucts in the subject of population.
Develop the subject area of population and integrate it into the training curriculum at all
levels.
-      Multiply the mesas of publiczing the message concerning popultion probleims.
(c) Alerting the gener4l public to population policy and programs
-      Strengthen the national and regional structues responsible for information, education and
communication (EEC) in the field of population.
-      Strengthen national competence in te field of IEC.
-      Strengthen the participation of te general public in the preparation and implmentation of
heath, family welfare and community development programs.
-       Wmprove the genera public's knowledge of the advantages brought by birth spacing.
Ernist the structures of the State and the party in the effort to spread information on population
issues.
Coordinate the activities of all the mass media in any program designed to improve the
position of women and educate men to the advantages of family planing, hygiene, bealth,
nutrition and a better family life.
Strengthen and extend the mechanism of censorship to progrms of entnment (filtm, song,
advertising, etc.), information and education in the area of population.
Sensitize and educate parents regarding the programs of education in family life intended for
their children.
Enourg the tehnical and financia support of NGOs in EC actions.
Establish a national program to educate the geneml public in fanily planning and the
interelation of economic development and population growth (seminas, workshops,
symposiums, round tables, retraining).
Creation of a national mechanism for following through on and evaluating policy objectives in
the areas of health and population.



-19-                        ANNEX 1 (a)
Page 19 of 24
SECI1ON 10: REDISTRIBUTION OF THE POPULATION
The population remains unevenly distributed over the country's territory. This unevenness is reinforced
by a high urban growth ate which in 1987 aledy excoeded total population (grwth byl 15%. This uneven
distribution of the population is due to seveal factors limiting productive use of natual and human rsources.
The consequences of that unevenmess are rural exodus, burgeoning utban populations and the need to augment
investment in infrastructure and services in urban centers.
Effrt by the S-tat-e
The govenmuent's policy of rational population distribution hs been sumd at populating empty areas
and developing means of communication capable of ensurng better integration in regional development plans.
GOAL
The spatial redisttibution of the population and the promotio of the balnced development of the
country's regions.
OBJECrIVES
The spaial population redistribution program pursus the following objectives:
Promote ral and urban development focusung on the needs expressed by the population.
Upgrade the status of farm labor.
Encowuage privato initiatives in rural areas.
Ensure effective economic inedpendene between the rural entities and the urban centers.
STRATEGIES
To achieve those objectives, the following strategies are used in spatal population tedistribution
efforts:
Promtotion and organization of rura coopertives an other mechanisms favorng remuneraw'e
prices to producers.
Encouragement of public and private investment in rural areas.
Productive use of fallow land.
Creating roads into areas to be opened up.
Creation of orderly development centers and introduction of production units into rural arms



-20-                            ANNEX 1 (a)
Page 20 of 24
Environmental protection.
Promotion of grassroots development by enabling villages to initiate development projets
responding to their vital needs.
The problem also presents itself in terms of an orderly approach to land use and spatial
population fedistribution. To achieve that, the policy of regional plauning and developnent by
better redistribution of hutmn and financa resources, activities and inf hstuur will be
strengthened.
In addition, since there *.  be no lasting economic and social development of the countryside
without an effective network of small and medium-sized towns furnishing the necessary
services, the creation or imrqovement of infastructe and facilities is planned for selected
centers.
To counterbalance the disproportionate mass of Lomnd, regional center will be bolstered with
institutional and financial means as well as leading-edge activities whose high-level services
will make it unnecessary to turn constantly to the nation's capital. Urban development in all
towns will be overseen by appropriate agencies and implemented and monitored by the local
political authorities, who will have adequate budgets for that purpose.
SECrION 11: DEMOGRAPHIC AND ECONOMIC STATISTICS
Asimtua of the situton
Only a partial examination of the demographic and economic development variables peraining to Togo
is possible, because of the absence of reliable statistical data on the leading economic, social and demographic
indicators. This ack explains the imprecise nature of the sector policy definitions, strategies and program
objective. The absence of a vital statistics office and reliable health data limits the insights to be gained into
Togo's demographic and health problems.
Efforts by the State
The government has, since independence, deployed consideable efforts and resoutces to gain insight
into the magnitude. struture and dynamics of the Togolese population (censuses and population surveys). Ttw
government has enhanced the country's ability to collect. analyze and disseminate population data (Directorate
of Statistics, Directorate of Scientific Research. the URD; the creation of a vital statistics system). Work has
begun on population policy and programs, and agencies responsible for the preparation of development plans.
progrms and projects have been strengthened.
Despite those efforts the quality of the data remains weak, reflecting limited resources and expenence
and the population's low literacy rate.



-21-                           ANNEX 1 (a)
Page 21. of 24
GOAL
Introduce a pemanent ayslem for collecting, analyzing wad disseminating population information, to
allow better planning of the country's development.
OBJECTIVES
Gaftering of date and population resach to gain a bettr understanding of demogrphic
phenomena.
Funish a quantitve basis for the definition of prionities and prgmms relating to popultion
and development policy.
Furnish the data required for public education on the implications of popuation gowwth for the
country's development.
Obtain the data ncessary for better progam follow-up and evaluation.
STRATEGIES
-      Revive the vital statistics services in order to improve record4keeping and maintain a
permnent pouation register.
- Obtain more timely vital statistics declarations (birth, mamage, divorce, death, etc.), thanks to
greater public awaeness of their importance.
Regularly produce ad dismate vital staistics and miation data.
aintain the period census pgam and continue post-census surveys to ensure updating of
demographic information.
-      Improve the systems for gathering sector statistics (health, school, agriculual, employment.
labor, etc.) necssay for economic ard social development planning at the national aon
regional levels.
Develop a methodology for coLlecting data on demographic parameters and [analyzingi the
correlations between those variables and economic development.
Impwve the statistis on the contribution of women and young people to the development
process.
-      Sensitize planners, reseaches and the authorities to the use of population data for
development planning and propamming.



-22-                            ANNIEX I (a)
Page 22 of 24
SECTION 12: PLANNING, FINANCE AND MANAGEMENT
Agosmegt of tbe Situation
Governent attempts to plan, desigp sad implement development, health, family, housng and
tclamton progmms are hampered by insufficient planning and management capacities. The efforts of the
State to improve general living conditions are likewise constrine-l by inadequate financial resources, and
individual efforts ae limited by low income levels. These deficiences have caused duplication of effort, lack of
coordination, waste of effort and resources, and incon4istent and unachievable economic and financial policies.
Effort of te Stat
The government has launched a vast program  of structunal adjustment and sector reforms allowing
better progammg of public investment, spurring prvate sector paticipation and giving special attention to
rumil areas.
The government is planning a prognua to stengthon national institutions responsible for development
progrm  and inends to inttoduce better coordinatio of programs and better tesource management at all levels.
It also plans to inwte demophic vaibles into all reas of planning, with a view to achieving a
baamce between the population gowth rate and the economic gowth mte.
GOAL
The judicious use of available resoure for balanced development.
OBJECTIVS
* npmvemnt of the phnning prooess, finacial managem    and progmm evaluation.
Impowvement of the effectiveness of the resources available for the programs.
STRATEGIES
Creation of a national mechanism (National Population Commission) responsible for following
through on national objectives and programs in the spheres of populaion, health and
employment.
Implementaton of a pemanent mechanism for coordination and discussion of population and
development policy objectives (National Populton Commission).
mprovement of planning, programming and development (mother-and-child heath, family
planning, women's issues, manpower truning).



-23-                            ANNEX 1 (a)
Page 23 of 24
SECTION 13: ORGANIZATION. FOLLOW-THROUGH AND EVALUATION
The ptesent situation
The govemnment's aim is to intega  demogphic variabls more and mote into planning to avoid
encounteing economic and social difficulties and institutional constmaints in all sectors. The government's aim
to consider the improvement of mother-and-child health and family planning as essential components of
economic development is far from achievement for lack of organization. foUow-through and evaluation in
connecton with birth-spacing and the reduction of maenal morality and morbidity.
EDfforts of the Suml
The responsibilities of the Ministry of Public Health, Social Affairs and Women's Issues include the
improvement of mother-and-child health and family planning, and the sensitization of unul and urban
populations to the need to institute effective family planning individually, collectvely and on a long-term basis
as the only way to act concretely on the fertility rate and the poplation gwth mae.
The govenment encourages the participation of ogovenmnl organizations and other private
groups in the implementation of its planning policy.
-      creation of the Association Togolaiso pour le Bien-6tre Familifal (ATBEF);
implementation of the Programme National pour le Bien-6tre Familial (PNBEF);
development of a national program on Sll) and AIDS.
Reorgaiuon of the Minity of Public Hoalth, Social Affairs and Women's Issues to make it
more efficient and more opeational.
Establishment of a planning unit in the MPH.
Introduction of regionl offies representg the decentalzed decision echelon in the nationAl
system.
)Development of the health staistics service as a tool for following through on, managing and
evaluating the government's sectional policy.
Cation of a national agency charged with monitoring the application of the population and
development policy, proposing revisions in the objectives and strategies of that policy, and
identifying or proposing agencies to handle various aspects of that policy.
Refleciong its emWhasis on coorduinaion and discussion, this agency will be composed of
representatives of all segments of the nation, to ensure that policy guidelines reflect both
national economic and social development needs and local social taditions.



-24-                              ANNEX 1 (a)
Page 24 of 24
This agency will monitor policy implementation in the various sectos, ensure that studies are
undertaken to evaluate progress. and identify the constraints requiring the attention of the State
and the othr agencies involved in policy implementation.
The population planning unit, which will be created in the Ministry of Planning and Mining,
will serve as the secretaiat of the national population agency.
The unit will coordinate studies conelating population and development, in collaboration with
other national hsarh orgaizations (Directoate of Human Resources, research institutes of
the University and the sector progam evaluation units).
The unit will maintain contacts with the NGOs and donors likely to support the
implementation of the national health policy and the nationlt population policy.
SECTION 14: MARSHALING OF RESOURCES
heses situation
The Pogramme National pour le Bien-6tre Familial s hampered by, among other things, a lack of
human, finacil and material rsources. The economic cnsis has imposed cutbacks which prevent the State
from allocating the resources necessary to cary out this vitally impotant progmm. Several initial steps such as
public education, the offering of services and staff organization are also suffering from lack of huding.
GOAL
Marshling of domestic and extemal resoures to pume the objetives of the health and population
policy.
STRATEGY
Identification of national and peripheal needs, definition of a medium-term plan of action, definition ot
the objectives to be achieved by such a plan, and the organization of meetings of donos.
SECTION 15: POLICY SUPPORT
Inclusion of demographic problems in economic and social development planning has become
imperative for the developing countries, many of which are African. Moreover, the Govenment of Geneml
Gnassingbe Eyadema is attempting to resolve population-related problems by stating that national family
planning policy favors birth spacing and that it is founded on the promotion of mother-and-child health and the
improvement of the quality of life of each individual.
The success of the nadonal population policy is vial for each family and for the entire nation. This
policy encompasses atl aspects of the country's economic and social development progamms.
The Party and the Government will offer their support and their cooperation in the implementation of
the national popubtion policy at all levels.



ANNEX I (b)
-25-                                 page l of 18
Annex 1
HEALTH AND SOCIAL SECTOR POLICY STATEMENT
I.          Introduction
1.          The Republic of Togo, with a total surface area of 56.600
km2, had a population in 1990 of 3.5 million (or average density of 61
inhabitants per km2) characterized by its youth (over 45 are below age
15) and high growth rate (3Z a year).
2.          The crude mortality rate is 14 per thousand, the infant rate
is 90 per thousand and the maternal rate is 500 per 100,000 births.
Life expectancy at birth is 51 years and the total fertility rate is 6
births per woman. A very low percentage of the population has access to
clean water: of the 7,000 supply points required to cover the needs of
the rural population by the end of 1990, 3,000 will actually exist;
present estimates are that 652 of the population has access to water
supply, but approximately 50 of hand pumps are usually not in working
order.
3.          Thanks to coverage of the health sector by both public and
private organizations and services, usage rates today are as follows:
69? of pregnant women seek prenatal consultations; 45? of births take
place in medical facilities; 251 of children under age 5 benefit from
development monitoring and protection programs; 202 of children under
age 5 and 5O0 of adults seek treatment consultations. In 1989, the DPT-
Polio vaccination coverage rate was 502, and tetanus vaccination
coverage for women of childbearing age was 72S. Despite progress in the
health arena in recent years, however, the major diseases are still:
-     parasitic diseases (malaria, intestinal parasites);
-     ipfectious diseases (severe respiratory ailments, diarrheaL
diseases, measles, etc.);
-     protein-calorie and other nutritional deficiencies;
-     sexually transmitted diseases including AIDS.
4.          These diseases, avoidable for the most part, are caused,
maintained or exacerbated by various factors: poor sanitation, poor
nutrition, unsafe personal and general practices, ignorance, low
purchasing power.



-26-                            ANNEX 1  (b)
page 2 of 18
II.         Constraints in the Health Sector
5.          Soon after independence was achieved, hospital facilities
were provided to meet the needs of the population, particularly for
access to treatment, but health services in rural areas were rare or
nonexistent. The Government then recognized that national development
should be based on adequate health services and saw the need to adopt a-
health policy that covered the needs of the majority, predominantly
rural.
6.          Beginning in 1964, and especially in the 1967-1968 period,
high priority was given to basic health services. The major lines of
health policy action were concentrated around activities at the central,
regional and local government levels and on providing a more
decentralized apparatus which in principle would make it possible to
resolve the health problems of the population down to the village level.
7.          Since 1978, the Government has followed a strategy of
primary health care, and in its Fourth Five-Year Economic and Social
Development Plan (1981-1985) visualized more extensive participation by
community groups in what appeared to be a promising type of health
program with both treatment and preventive aims. Unfortunately, the
worsening of the world economic crisis, a low level of investment in
basic health care and a spiraling population growth rate limited
implementation of the Government's new health strategy. As a result,
infrastructure, personnel, funding and material resources are not only
inadequate but also unevenly distributed throughout the health and
social sector. Shortages of pharmaceutical products in all rural and
peri-urban areas remain a major problem.
S.          The prices of pharmaceutical products and the weak
management capacity of TOGOPHARMA (a parastatal enterprise that holds
the monopoly on such products throughout Togo) have exacerbated the
difficulties the population has in obtaining access to essential
treatment and preventive health care. Since health centers lack
essential drugs and interruptions in supply are frequent, the population
is discouraged from regular use of health facilities, while the
propensity on the part of doctors to over-prescribe contributes to the
increasingly higher cost of treatment.
III.        Context and Obiectives of the Structural Adjustment Program
9.          After a period of economic growth during the first half of
the 1970s, Toga faced economic disruptions accentuated by lower
commodity prices, with the result that the economy and public finances
deteriorated. Since 1983, the Government has been engaged in large-
scale reforms to stabilize the financial situation and in major
structural adjustments to reestablish a base for sustainable economic
growth. The country's first two Structural Adjustment Programs halted
the economic decline by revising priorities, reorienting public
investment policy and improving management of public finances. The
goals of the Third Program were a return to growth, reduction of the
overall budget deficit and reinforcement of incentive measures to
promote the private sector.



-27-                            ANNEX 1   (b)
page 3 of 18
10.         In an overall sense, the results achieved since 1983 have
been encouraging. Management of public finances has imtroved, the
quality of investments is better, agriculture has been reorganized.
publi- enterprises have been rehabilitated, the small and medium
enterprises sector has been promoted, and the civil service has
undergone administrative reform. In addition, improvements have been
achieved in the allocation of financial resources for non-wage recurrent
costs in the health and social sector, although structural rigidities
persist and constitute obstacles to dev-elopment and to a better standard
of living for the general panulation.
11.         The Fourth Structural Adjustment Program concentrates on the
actions begun under the Third to create the right foundation for
sustainable economic growth with equity. These actions will be
continued through measures designed to increase and diversify
production, raise productivity, and reinforce the institutions
responsible for management of the economy. Particular attention will be
paid to human resources development, the social dimensions of
adjustment, and the promotion of women and their integration into the
development process. The Government proposes to mobilize public revenue
and thereby increase the resources available to it, to put public
expenditure on a more rational footing by limiting increases in wage
costs so that allocations for non-wage operating expenditure can be
increased, to improve the absorptive capacity of the economy, and to
strengthen governmental institutions. Rural development and the
rehabilitation and maintenance of public infrastructure will be
emphasized under the public investment program. The capabilities of
sector ministries in the investment planning and programming field will
be strengthened in order to improve management throughout the
governmental apparatus and achieve human resources enhancement.
Institutional reform and strengthening programs will be set in motion
to:
-     provide continuing training and retraining for personnel;
-     strengthen the staffing and physical resources of the sector
ministry units responsible for planning;
-     reformulate the purposes of programs and improve the program
monitoring and evaluation system;
-     strengthen the statistical systems of sector departments and
agencies.
12.         In the agriculture sector, the Government will act to
improve production incentives and product diversification. As a means
of promoting industrial and commercial investment, free trade zones will
be created, while the policy of liberalizing trade and opening up the
country more to the exterior will be continued.
13.         In the education sector, measures to improve the quality of
the schooling system and adapt it to labor market requirements will be
set in motion. Special priority will be assigned to providing access to
clean water for all by installing water supply points in villages.



-28-                                     'iEX   (b. 
page * of td
14.         In the economic infrastructure arena, the Government will
continue its policy of rehabilitating and maintaining existing
facilities. The health status of the population will benefit from the
particular attention it is proposed to pay to improving essential
treatment and preventive programs, strengthening health care delivery
facilities. training personnel, increasing budget allocations to the
sector, introducing cost recovery measures and setting up a system to
ensure supplies of essential generic pharmaceuticals.
15.         The Government will adopt a national population policy so
that proper account may be taken of population variables in the planning
and programming process. It is proposed to strengthen the family
planning program, and to this end family planning assistance will be
made available at health facilities for couples wishing to space the
births of their children. In order to ensure that these services are
more widely used, the health education program run by the Ministry of
Welfare and Women's Affairs will be used as a vehicle for increasing the
practice of contraception.
16.         As the foregoing review indicates, the Government has
identified those points at which Togo's health sector is showing the
effects of the economic crisis during the period. In order to rectify
present problems, the Government proposes tos
-     focus action on the most prevalent diseases;
-     correct regional imbalances as far as infrastructures
equipment and qualified personnel are concerned;
-     improve the system by which sector programs are managed.
IV.         General Sector Policy
17.         Within the framework of the Fourth Structural Adjustment
Program, the Government intends to reorient its health policy toward
improving the health status of the population as a whole. In order to
ensure that coverage of the country is as broad as possible, the
Government has opted for a primary health care strategy dependent on
increased participation by communities, service organizations and NGOs
in the field of health and social action in Togo. The new policy calls
for the establishment of a solid foundation for development of the
health and social system at the national, regional and local government
levels, a system whose impact should be measured by its capacity to
respond to the needs of the population. The objectives of this new
sector policy fit into the framework of the Program, which emphasizes
human resources development and better health coverage. As the strategy
for implementing this new policy is based on primary health care, social
promotion and the incorporation of women into all economic and cultural
activities, the Government has instituted reforms in the health and
social sector for which it has requested technical and financial support
from the International Development Association and other interested
donors.



-29-                               ANNX 6
page S of 18
18.         The policy calling for reform and development of this
sector. as an integral part of Structural Adjustment Program IV. has as
its key goal the improvement of indicators on the health and social
status of the population despite the current environment of austerity.
In order to revitalize health and social action to this end, sector
reforms will be designed tot
(i)      Bring down morbidity and mortality rates associated with the
most prevalent diseases by strengthening treatment services.
introducing an essential generic drugs program,
rehabilitating and re-equipping health facilities and
staffing them with personnel who are properly qualified
through basic and advanced training programs and instruction
in staff supervision and monitoring.
(ii)      Implement a population policy focused on mother and child
health and family planning.
(iii)      Achieve institutional strengthening by reforming the
investment and sectoral planning and programming system,
improving the system by which available budget resources are
allocated and administered, reorganizing the Ministry of
Public Health and the Ministry of Welfare and Women's
Affairs at both the headquarters and regional levels, and
bringing into place a mechanism for collaboration on and
coordination and monitoring of sectoral programs:
_     intensification of preventive activities (e.g.
vaccination, mother and child protection,
sensitization/education/ information on health
matters, and prevention of sexually transmitted
diseases and AIDS;
-     promotion of deconcentration and decentralization, by
placing particular emphasis on increased community
participation in health and social action;
-     mobilization of additional resources for activities in
the health and social sector, through greater
participation by the private sector and NGOs and
implementation of cost recovery measures in
association with the essential drugs program;
-     improving the management information system in use and
reinforcing applied research into traditional
medicinal remedies.
19.         To achieve these objectives, the Government is committed to
implementing the following series of specific measures during the 1990-
1994 period:
(a)   better articulation of policies and strategies in the
population and health fields and implementation of the
latter;



-30-
ANNEX I (b)
page 6 of8        *
(b)   reforms focused on system structure and on improving system
management at all levels;
(c)  more rational allocation of current and capital budget funds
and official borrowing operations, throughout the population
and health sector;
(d) commencement of moves to mobilize additional resources in
the form of increased participation by the private sector
and NGOs;
te)   introduction of program coordination and monitoring
mechanisms;
(f) development of a system to recover costs on essential
generic drugs;
(g)   redeployment and enhancement of human resources in the
sector through more precise job descriptions, supervision
and regular retraining, and better personnel management in
general.
V.          Priority Primary Health Care Programs
20.         The Government has formulated operating strategies which
specify the medium-term objectives for each of the priority programs
adopted. These objectives will be reviewed each year and revised where
appropriate. The strategies themselves are based ons
Mi)      Togo's epidemiological and demographic status;
(11)      the resources available in the health and social sector
(personnel, funding, infrastructure) and the criteria for
building of new facilities;
(iii)      the  ew guidelines for funding of health services and the
regulations governing action by both the public and private
sectors;
(iv)      short- and medium-term goals, and supporting estimates for
*ll priority programs.
21.         As a first step toward sector reform that will allow full-
scale implementation of this new strategy, the Government has decided to
give priority to the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure.
Selection of facilities for rehabilitation or construction will be made
according to the following criteria:
-     the financial resources available;



-31-
ASNEX I (b)
pase 7 of l8
-     the size of the population to be served (concentration,
location, distance from other health facilities, isolation
of the particular group);
degree of interest shown by local authorities and
communities in contributing (funds, manpower, materials) to
initial building operations and to routine maintenancel
-     availability of qualified personnel to ensure sound
operation of the facilities selected:
-     capacity of health facilities:
2 university hospital centers        ? beds eachs
4 regional hospital centers          150-200 beds esch;
16 prefecture hospitals              60-100 beds each;
30 medico-social centers             20-25 beds each;
326 dispensaries                     4 beds each;
Village-level health posts.
The priority programs adopted and the goals for each of them
in the 1990-1994 period are as follows
1.1         Mother and Infant Health. Family Planninat and Nutrition
Progr
Safe motherhood;
Campaign against diarrheal diseases;
-     Campaign against acute respiratory infections;
-     Extended vaccination program;
-     Family planning;
-     School and university health programs.
Objectives:
-     reduce the maternal mortality rate from 500 to 450 per
100,000 live births, by 1995;
reduce instances of anemLa among pregnant women from 46 to
102, by 1995;
improve the quality and increase the frequency of monitoring
of pregnancies for 702 of expectant mothers, by 1995;



-32-
AN-4EX t (b)
page 8 of 18
provide better delivery and postpartum care for 402 of
mothers, by 1995;
promote a birth-spacing interval of at least two years among
70S of new mothers, by 1995:
reduce the number of births among women under age 20 and
over age 35 from 30S in 1990 to 20?, by 1995;
reduce the percentage of high order pregnancies (more than
six) from 60S to 50, by 1995;
reduce maternal mortality from unwanted pregnancies from 162
to 82, by 1995S
increase the availability of services to women and married
couples from 10? to 60?. by 19951
increase the use of modern contraceptive methods from 52 to
15?, by 1995;
promote proper nutrition for S02 of children up to age S.
and monitor their physical development;
survey medications used to treat acute respiratory
infections and draw up an appropriate therapeutic guide
(1991);
improve the knowledge, attitudes and practices of
respiratory care providers (220) and the population at
large, by 1995;
reduce the morbidity rate for acute respiratory infections
among children up to age 5 by 5?;
study the different causes of acute respiratory infections
(1991) as a step toward selecting appropriate treatments, by
1995;
reduce the mortality rate from diarrheal diseases by 70?, by
1995;
reduce the prevalence of protein-calorie deficiencies among
children up to age 5 from 25? to 20?, by 1995;
reduce the manifestations of severe nutritional
deficiencies, by 1994, and the physical deformities they
cause, by 1999;
evaluate the prevalence of vitamin A deficiency and develop
a plogram to eliminate this endemic problems



-33-                             ANNEX I (b)
page 9 of Is
-     increase vaccination coverage (measles, diphtheria, tetanus,
poliomyelitis, pertussis and tuberculosis) from 52? to 902.
by 1994s
-     increase vaccination coverage of women of childbearing age
from 622 to 90t, by 1994;
-     include vaccination against meningitis and yellow fever in
the immmnization program and achieve coverage of 25?, by
1994.
School and UniversitZ Health Programs
Obiectives:
-     set up a system for monitoring the prevalence of diseases in
schools and universities;
_     set up a system for the annual checking of the health of
4,000 children attending pre-school establishments
train 27 prefectural medical directors, 123 inspectors,
1,000 teachers, 6 medical assistants, 94 nurses, 39 social
workers and 39 hygiene workers by providing two seminars per
years
-     evaluate the epidemiological situation in schools in 1992.
1.2         Malaria Control Proaram
Obiectivess
-     reinforce malaria control measures as part of the primary
health care delivery system by increasing access to
diapgosis and to early and appropriate treatment from 332 to
702 of sufferers, by 1995;
-     reduce severe cases, complications and the mortality tate
from malaria, particularly among children up to age S and
pregnant women by 50S, by 1995;
nlstruct the personnel of 35 health facilities in epidemiologica'
surveillance of this disease and surveillance of the susceptibi:b.:
of r. falciparum to anti-malarial drugs, between 1991 and 1995.
1.3         Campaian Against TB and Other Resuiratorv Diseases
Obiectivess
increase the number of patients in treatment from 500 a year to
3,000, over the 1991-1994 periods
reduce the rate of abandonment of treatment by 252, by 1994;



-34-                               A-"- E-X I (b)
page 10 of 18
improve the compilation of statistics on the 2,000 patients who are
in treatment;
reduce the manifestations of severe deficiencies and the resulting
abnormalities by 50?, by 1995;
evaluate the prevalence of vitamin A deficiency for the purpose of
developing a program to eliminate the disease as an endemic
problem.
1.4         Camoaian Asainst Dracunculosis and Other Parasitic Diseases
(Measures have yet to be formulated.)
1.5         Proaram to Control Sexually Transmitted Diseases and AIDS
Obiectives:
-     inform, sensitize and educate the population regarding their
adoption of behaviors likely to reduce sexually transmitted
diseases and AIDS;
-     prevent the transmission of HIV through blood transfusions;
-     provide care for individuals testing HIV+;
-     provide counseling for family members of persons with AIDS;
-     incorporate measures for the control of sexually transmitted
diseases and AIDS into the primary health care delivery system;
-     improve knowledge of the epidemiological situation in this field
and set up a system of epidemiological research;
-     provide training for health and social sector personnel employed 4rn
the campaign against sexually transamtted diseases and AIDS.
1.6         Dental and Oral Health Program
Obiectives:
evaluate the prevalence of dental caries and periodontal diseases
and identify the major causes;
design and institute a dental and oral health policy (1991);
increase accessibility to and availability of dental services;
sensitize the population to the need for dental and oral hygiene;
increase the number of dental consultations from 50,000 to 175,000
by 1995;
create 15 dental clinics at prefecture level, by 1994.



-35-                              ANNEX I (b)
page It of 18
1.7         Campaign against Eye Diseases
Objectives:
reduce the current prevalence rates of blindness due to neonatal
conjunctivitis by 502;
provide systematic antiseptic treatment of all newborns, beginning
in 1991;
break the onchocerciasis transmission chain with ivermectin;
train four physicians and 10 nurses in the specialty of
ophthalmology, by 1994;
retrain nurses and midwives in using -- and providing instruction
in the use of -- preventive care against eye diseases:
reduce the current rate of blindness due to measles and cataract by
602.
1.8         Campaign Against Cardiovascular Diseases
Obiectives.
evaluate the general prevalence of cardiovascular diseases in the
population at large (1991-1992);
propose a plan for a campaign against complications from
cardiovascular pathology.
1.9         Environmental Sanitation
Obiectivess
test the quality of water obtained from all locally used sources so
that appropriate steps can be taken where they are unsafes
begin setting up trash removal systems in the country's four major
urban areas.
Support Programs
2.1         Social Sector
Community Development Program
Obiectives:
strenpthen 1,500 existing CVD8 (Village Development Committees). i
1991;
promote the creation of 2,880 new CVDs;



-36-
A,,EX I (b)
page 12 of 18
train 300 community development trainers;
create groupingslassociations for production purposes and use of
appropriate kinds of technology.
Literacy and Adult Education Program
Obiective:
set up 500 centers at CVD level.
Juvenile Support Program
Obiectives:
provide educational programs to assist minors with behavioral
problems in re-entering the mainstream of education and production;
educate young people for family life.
Integration of Women into Development
Obiectives:
increase women's participation in development by creating a social
and cultural environment that encourages them to broaden their
horizons and look outside their usual environment;
promote access for women to the means of production for crop
growlng, livestock raising and artisanal activities;
increase women's productivity;
reduce the illiteracy rate among women from 712 to 65S, by 1995;
provide advisory/supervisory services for rural women;
ensure that all development projects include a women's development
component;
educate women and couples to make more active use of family
planning services in the Interests of lower mother and infant
mortality rates, birth spacing, and the welfare of both women and
the family;
alleviate the burden of domestic chores;
provide greater access for women to formal and informal training at
all levels;
provide training for women heads of groupingslassociations in the
management of development actlvities and ensure their access to
advisory/supervisory services;



-37-
ANNEX I (b)
page 13 of 18
improve the compilation of statistics on women;
provide training for urban women in business management so that
they are better equipped to run income-generating activities.
2.2         Health Sector
Essential Generic Drugs Prograr
Obiectives:
reorganize and streamline the system by which essential
pharmaceutical goods are supplied, by 1993;
ensure that essential generic drugs are permanently available at
the lowest possible cost from all publicly-run health facilities,
by 1994;
decentralize the essential drugs distribution, warehousing and
control system, down to village community level (1991-1993);
improve inventory management and introduce an inventory
replenishment system, by 1993.
Cost Recovery Program
Objectivess
design, test and evaluate a cost recovery system in publicly-run
health facilities, 1991-1993s
institute user participation in the financlng of recurrent costs,
1991-1993;
increase the flow of financial resources to the sector so that
better health coverage will be available from the beginning of
1993.
Sensitization. Education and Information
Obiectives s
-     sensitize the population to the need for prevention of
tran7smittable diseases, 1991-19945
-     educate the population in prevention methods, 1991-1994;
-     promote community health, particularly in rural and peri-urban
areas, 1991-94s
-     promote better utilization of health services and family planning
throughout the population, 1991-1994;



-38-                              ANNEX I (b)
page 14 of 18
-     design and prepare activities to educate young people for family
life, 1991-1994;
*     arrange for participation by KGO0 in the national family planning
program (continuing):
-     support health and social sector programs with sensitization and
education activities focused on health and social matters
(continuing) 
-     develop sensitixation and education materials for use by the
various servico departments of the Ministry of Public Health
(continuing) 
-     strengthen the capacity of the National Health Education Service to
provide better education fot the population in health, social and
fmily planning mattere (continuing);
3     collaborate with the Ministry of Information in sensitizing
community groups to the goals, strategies and programs associated
with the national population policy (continuing).
Institutlonal Reform Proaram
(a) RehabliLtatLoan of health lnfrastructure (dispensaries, medico-
social centers, prefecture hospitals and regional hospital
centers).
(b)   Restructuring of the headquarters and regional departments of the
Ministry of Health, in accordance with the new organization chart
approved.
Cc) Zstablishmeat of a National Maintenance and Repair Service, as per
the new Ministry of Health organLzatLon chart.
(d)   Strengthening of planninglprogramming/coordination activities
throughout the health and socLal field (recruitment/training of
planning specialists, creation of a technical committee consisting
of department heads and of a technical committee for program
coordination and monitoring.
(e)   Strengthening of financial management (recruLtment/training of
tocRpical specialists, 1991-1993, and Introduction of a cost and
stock accounting system, by January 1991).
tf)   Strengthening of personnel management and enhancement capabllities
(introduction of a personnel management system and training
progra-ming measures).



-39-
A3NEX I  (b)
page 15 of 18
vI.         System Structure and Management
Roles of Government, private sector and users
22.         As part of the process of introducing a more effective health care
delivery system and ensuring its long-term viability, the Government intends to
encourage greater participation by the private sector and users in the
programming. provision, financing and monitoring of both treatment and
preventive services. To this end, it will take the specific steps sumarized
below.
23.         In the interests of conserving the gains the country has made in
the health arena, the Government will introduce measures to improve resource
allocation and general effectiveness throughout the health system. Budgetary
appropriations to the sector will be increased to the level prevailing prior to
the economic crisis, and this supplementary funding will be earmarked
essentially for non-wage recurrent costs.
24.         To improve both health coverage and the effectiveness of treatment
and preventive services, the Government will encourage greater participation by
NGOs and the private sector in both treatment and preventive activities, in the
supply, distribution and sale of pharmaceutical products and in the opening of
private clinics. Legislation and regulations to define the extent of
participation by private enterprises and govern the opening of private sector
health facilities will be in draft versions by August 31, 1991, ready for
discussion with the World Bank, and they are expected to be in effect by
September 30, 1991. Specific plans for the supply, distribution and sale of
essential generic drugs and other pharmaceutical products will be finalized by
October 31, 1990 so as to ensure their general availability in all publicly-run
health facilities.
VII.        General Reorganization of Public Health Manasement SZstem
25.         In order to Improve management effectiveness throughout the healh
and social services delivery system, and to facilitate accomplishment of the
objectives embodied in its sector policy, the Government proposes to undertake
a series of reforms needed to bring about a far-reaching restructuring of the
Ministry of Public Health. This restructuring will consist ofs streamlining
of the present management systeml redefinition of the functions and
responsibilities of headquarters and regional departments; improved personnel
management; improved financial and material resources management; and set up
machinery for the coordination, monitoring and evaluation of programs and
investments.
26.         Restructuring of the headquarters departments of the Ministry wi::
require the creation of one department with responsibility for personnel
planning and training and another responsible for the administration, fundin4.
coordination, monitoring and evaluation of programs and projects. In view ,:
the Fourth Structural Adjustment Program policy calling for decentralizati. n
the management system, a regional directorate of public health will be set -p
in each of the country's administrative regions. Staffing requirements wil:
reassessed and steps taken to limit the size of headquarters staff and ass:*-



-40-
sSSEX I (b)
page 16 of 18
more technical personnel to non-headquarters service units. The Government is
comuitted to making appointments prior to August 31, 1991 to those key
positions in restructured departments which entail responsibility for priority
programs. A technical committee consisting of department heads will, be created
by the same date so as to ensure better intra-sector coordination, better
programing and supervision of sector programs, and periodic evaluation of
activities in progress.
In order to ensure effective supervision of actual implementation
of the measures provided for in the Plan of Action on which the population and
health sector adjustment program is based, the Government will set up another
technical committee, with responsibility for coordination and monitoring.
Consisting of the heads of the headquarters and regional departments of the
Ministry of Public Health and one representative each from the Ministries of
Planning, Finance, Welfare and Women's Affairs, Information, Rural Development,
and Education, it will be chaired by the Minister of Public Health. As the
entity responsible for supervising execution of the measures and reforms
provided for in the Government's sector program, it will be expected to monitor
execution of the intermediate phases of the Plan of Action, examine all aspects
of the Plan on a periodic basis, make periodic evaluations of the suitability
and impact of measures implemented, and subsequently propose any necessary
modifications in implementation strategy. It will also forward quarterly
progress reports to IDA and other donors who are supporting the Government's
program. The Government undertakes to set up this committee prior to August
15, 1990.
Over the period August-December 1990, the MLaistry of Welfare and
Women's Affairs will conduct a study on the Government's policies and
strategies in the social arena and in the field of women's affairs.
VIll.       Health and Social Sector Funding Policy
0terating expenses
27.         In order to ensure achievement of the objectives of the priority
programs on which health and social sector policy is based, the Government wi':
take a series of concrete steps which form part of an agreed Plan of Action.
28.         The recurrent costs of the Ministry of Public Health will be
financed from the government budget, as follows at least CPAP 6 billion in
1991, CPAP 6.4 billion in 1992, CPA? 6.9 billion in 1993 and CFAP 7.4 billion
in 1994.
29.         The proportion of the general budget of the Ministry of Public
Health allocated to non-wage recurrent costs will be increased each year, to
reach a figure of at least 352 ln 1994.
30.         Decentralization of the non-wage component of the Ministry's
general budget to the health care and social facilities themselves will come
into effect no later than one year after a new operational accounting system
has been set up in conjunction with budget-control and management information
systems -- in other words, by December 31, 1992. In the meantime, the
amendments to laws, regulations and administrative procedures required as



-41-                             ANNEX I (b)
page 17 of 18
preliminaries to this budgetary decentralization are expected to have been
approved.
31.         A system for the recovery of essential drug costs from users is to
be introduced in all health facillties, which will be authorized to employ
their revenues from drug sales to replenish their pharmaceutical stocks and to
cover certain non-wage expenditures. The system will be brought into place
step by step beginning in 1992 after pilot tests have been carried out at a
sample of health facilities, and is scheduled to come into general use no later
than the end of 1994.
32.         A health services management training program for key staff of the
Ministry of Public Health will be given in 1990 and 1991 in preparation for
decentralization of the budget management responsibility to the various levels
of system operation (headquarters and regional departments and health
facilities themselves).
Health and social sector capital budget
33.         Achievement of the objectives of the Government's health and social
policy will be dependent upon a health sector investment policy designed tot
(a)   Emphasize the rehabilitation and re-equipping of existing health
care and social service delivery agencies. New construction will
be the exception and w'll be approved solely in those cases where
established sector criteria, standards and priorlties indicate that
it is clearly warranted.
(b)   Give preference to more remote districts In the selection of
infrastructure to be rehabilitated.
Cc) Integrate health and social programs at the regional level to
ensure that resources are used as economLcally as possible and
maximize program impact on the population.
(d)   Work toward regional balance in the distribution of health delivery
services and an increase in minimum health care coverage for the
population at large.
(e)   Increase the Government's own participation in the investment
effort and improve the rate of execution of the sector capital
budget.
(f)   Ensure that local communities participate in the rehabilitation of
the health and social infrastructure they use.
(g)   Channel external aid to the sector in accordance with the
priorities and programs on which official three-year investment
plans are based.



-42-                               ANNEX I (b)
page 18 of L8
34.         Certain support measures of an institutional nature will be
essential if the Plan of Action is to become a realityt
(1) Reinforcement of those departments of the Ministry of Public Health
responsible for the programming and budgeting of investments.
(2)   Introduction of a decentralized system for the identification of
investment projects in each region.
(3)   Increased collaboration between the Ministry of Planning and the
Ministry of Public Health in the analysis and choice of investment
program components.
(4) lamediate provision for the training of key personnel in the
techniques of planning and analysis of projects in the health and
social arena, and subsequent arrangements for their refresher
training on a periodic basis.
(5)   Measures necessary to rectify government contracting procedures so
that the disbursement process for works execution and procurement
of furniture, equipment and services can be accelerated.



TOGO
POPULATION AND HEALTH SECTOR AOJUSTMENT CREDIT                                            ANNEX 2
POLICY MATRIX (ACTION PLAN)
Policy            Measures Taken Under                Sector Adjustment Credit
Objectives        Sector Adjutment Operation          Meaures                             Monitorabl- Actions                 Timing
Sector Policy     Articulation of Population Policy   Adoption of Popultion               Signed Population Policy document   Dons.
Reform            Refinement of HelIth Sector         policy document
Pol icy
Adoption of Halth Sector Policy    Slgned Health Sector Docuent          one.
Documnt
Mobtiliztion      Adoption of cost recovery           Reform of procuremnt end financial Presidontial ordonnance *nd          Done.
of Domestic                                           manag ment procedures for cost      arretes authorizing direct
Resources                                             recovery                            procuremnt of essetial drugs nd
the rotention and m_nagment of cost
recovery funds at the leol of each
facility*
Setor Monagent Improv, sector organization            Stremlina sector mnagement.         Dere reoroanzing the MSP            Done.
Improvement of sector coordination  Institution of sector coordination Deere  stablishing Sector            Don.
_ ehantim                           Coordination Comitte (CTCS)*
Improved Program Mngement           Institution of Program M_aagmnt  Ministerlal arreto establishing        Done.
nd supervision *nehanim            Prorm Managsmen% and Supervision
Comittee (CTD/MP) in the MSP
Strengthen Personnel Capacitie      Institue  ln-service training       Report on Staff deployment nd       Annually
progrm                              in-service tranintg                 from 1991
Re iew progrss on reorganization   Second treneh.
of the MSP*
Sat up efficient rferral systm    Iostitut managemeant eomittas for Dweroe and arretes establishing    Done.
all health facilities              management c_emittess nd editing
functionsof fecilities.
Sector Financial Improve Sector Financial Management Instits . Oetter budgting.           Instittet finnecial management nd Credit Effctivemnes.
Management        and accountability                  accounting end finncital control    accountttg systeme



TOW0
POPULATION AND HEALTH SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT                                             ANNEX 2
POLICY MATRIX (ACTION PLAN)
Policy            Measures Taken Uhder                 Sector Adjustment Credit
Obj ecti s        Sector Adjustment Operation          Meosures                            Monitorobla Actions                  Timing
Institute a three year rolling      Review PIP for the Sector.           Annually
investment budgeting process                                             from 1991 for each tranche.
Institute program budgeting         Prepare annual program budgets.    Annually
Review of level and composition     from 1991 for each tranch-.
with IDA; review actual budgetry
expenditures for pest year.*
Mobilize  dditional resources       Institue cost recovery activities  Establish mechanism for cost           Second tranche.
for sector operations                                                    recovery.*
Vonitoring and evaluation report.  Annually
on cost recovery                    from 1992
Promote private and NCO             Legislative text on NOO/Private   191
participation In service delivery   Sector participation in Sector
Improve the       Institute operational norms and      Prepare operational strategies for Operational strategy document         Done.
coverage and      criteria for family planning and    personnel at all levels of
quality of        bealth care services                 the system
erv I ce
maintain inimum care of             Review of budgetary allocation       Annually
expenditures in the Sector          for non-go e  xpense  and for        from 1991 for each
essenmtil dru"s (as pert of the     tranche.
annual budget review abovo)
Institute decentralized maintenance Set up a new meintenance unlt in   As pert of general MSP                Done.
system !t tbe Sector                the MSP and *Jtablithed regional    reorganization
maintenance services
Implementation of staffing plan     From 1991
for Regional Directorates



TOO
POPULATION AND HEALTH SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT                                             ANNEX 2
POLICY MATRIX (ACTION PLAN)
Policy            Measures Taken Under                 Sector Adjustment Credit
Objectives        Sector Adjustment Operation          Measures                            Monitorsble Actions                  Timing
Expand Faily Planning               Increas  coverage and quality of    Satisfactory repert on execution of Second tranche.
Family Planning Services            Family Planning and PHC.*
Maintain regular supply of          Establish an essential drug          Review essential drugs list          Annually from 1991.
essential generic drugs tn          procruement capab;lity within         nd procurement practicies.
Promete Increas  us  of upgraded    Intensify population and health    Review health education progrom        Annually from 1991.         t
services                            education                            performance
Strengthen Primary Health Care      Establish diagnostic  nd             Therapeutic guidelines,              Jn. 191.
prescription guidelines             Essential drugs list
Rehabilitate rural facilWt;..       Beneficiaries' evaluation.           Nov. 30, 1993.
and services
Upgrade staff performanee           Institute a computerized personnel  Implementation of Staff Deployment  Credit Effectiveness.
mnagrment system                    Plan.* Up to date pursonnel
records and defined functions
Train Staff of Personnel Division   Reports on staff training            Annually
and Key Program Managers                                                 from 1992.
nd supervisors
Institute regular in-service        Report on in-sorvice                 Third tranche.
training for staff in the sector    training  nd performance
of staff.
s Tranche release conditions a summarized in paragraph 100.



TOGO: POPULATION AND HEALTH SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
PROJECTION OF SECTOR EXPENSES NEEDES DURING 1M-1994
(Di MILION OF CARRENT FCFA)
1990     1991      1902      1093     194      TOTAL   1090-1994
Annual
Actual                                        1991-1994 growth rae
1. MSP/MASCF RECURRENT BUE                         6 629    5033      6 B4    aa 656    7 397    2 534         7,6
2. INVESTMENT BUDGET                               1 21      1 346    1 446    1 664    1 671          016     7,6
S. TOTAL RECURRtENT AND INESTMENT BUD0ET (1)*(2)   6 700    7 278    7 794    8 410    9 060    32 6S0         7,t
4. RECURRENT EXPENSES WITHOUT ADJUSMENT OPRA1TION  5 529    5 702        873    6 069    6 244    28 03        3,o
S. COST OF PRIORITY PROGRAMS UNDER ADJUSTMENT        -       6 900    8 484    4 623    0 680    20837          -                        C
6. TOTAL EXPENSES (4)+(6)                            -      12 662   14 362   32 882   12 824    52 720         -
7. BUDGETARY GAP (a)-(S)                             -    -63 $74  - 6   86    - 6 472   - 3 76S  - 20 170      -
S. RESOURC  FROM COST RECOVERY                       -         0        2B0       060     1 089     2 010       -
0. 4AP TO BE FINUANED (7)-(8)                        -    - 5 374   - O aoo   - S 08m    - 2  67   - 18 162     -
10. PPOPOSED IDA FUNDING                              -      1 200    1 200    A 20D                 4 0D        -
11. GAP TO BE FUNDED BY OTHER ONOS (9)-(10)           -      4 174     5 106     2 00     2 067    1s 302        -
12. FINUNCING PUlN:                                            S         S  .               S 
MSP/MASCF-            (3)/(6)                     -         57       64        6         t1       62         -
BENEFICIARIES         (8)/ (6)                    -          0        2         6        a         4         -
IDA                 (10)/(6)                      -        10         8         9        5         8         -
OTHER DONORS          1)/(6)                      -         as       a6        20        16       26         -
TOTAL                                             -        100      100       100       100      100         -



- 47 -                                     ANNEX  4
23-Jan.91                       TODD: Status of lor Id 1. Loans arV Credits
(In el IIlom of U.S. doIlars, as of Nola2sr 30, 1990) 1/
original principal V        Dlweed vd Otstlnrg
IDA    I1W     TOTAL          IDA     InW     TOTAL
A. FILLY DIS1    OOLLAR LO       CREDITS   82.47    3.60   85.97         79.42    0.28   79.68
8. FILLY DIS81M     SOR CREDITS           182.21    -      182.21        188.00    -      188.00
C. ALL OISBISIN CREDITS                   198.90    -      198.90         77.89    -       77.89
Secd Rural Develomnt (1302-1)             6.90    -        6.90          0.00    -        0.00
Edueation lprowmnt                       12.40    -       12.40         13.38    -       13.38
Lame Water St.WIy                        12.00    -       12.00         8.31    -         8.31
NMaeto Wdroslectrlc                      15.00    -       15.00         14.90    -       14.90
Tednlcal AssIstaw eil                     8.20    -        6.20         8.03    -         6.03
Coffee a Cooa DM Iq,nt III               17.90    -       17.9D         15.04    -       15.04
Agricultural Extemion                     9.70    -        9.70          2.90    -        2.90
Privaa btrprlsos Dsv't                   11.50    -       11.50          1.57    -        1.57
Tranort Rnhbi I ltatlwr,                 40.00    -       40.00          8.89    -        8.89
cotton Sector Dveiwmnt                   15.10    -       15.10          3.69    -        3.69
GrassrootsOev't Initiatives               5.00    -        5.00          0.80    -        0.80
PrInvesitmnt                              5.00    -        5.00          0.10    -        0.10
Teleounicatlios                          16.00            16.00          2.50    -        2.50
Powr Reb. and Extemlon 3/                15.00    -       15.00         -        -        -
TectnIcal aid Vocatlol EdEat. 3/          9.20             9.20         -        -        -
0. WM  TOTAL FOR ALL LOANS                  -       3.50    3.50          -        0.28    0.28
E. OA1  TOTAL FOR ALL QUEDITS             481.56    -      461.58       343.31    -       343.31
F. 6WMN TOTAL FOR ALL LOANS & CREDITS     461.58    3.50  465.08        343.31    0.28  343.57
I/ Discrepanols between orlginal and dIabursed amuts are due to fluwtuations
In US$MOR esctwrge rate In perlod of diehurseoent. Crsdits deiulnated In SURs
are shorn In US eqlwvalent based on th e cdwa    rates In effewt at tIbe of negotlatlons;
V Original aDounts net of any canel latlons;
3/ Not yet effective as of November 30. 1990;
Souroes: IBR) and IDA statements of loam and delqi.nnt credits, NDvower 1990.



- 48 -
ANNEX 5
-*--w*---*Z .Mi Nt OC-............... ............ . . TR   . T trv  cmwp.......... . .... __ ,_ __
,   - ?A         I        4.Fc>  _--s ITO -   ^----1  WZAU
196   1"?         19W    1949        1ow      l 9    to"    199    1994 19o6
JP ani.  fth.                      3.41   1.5         4.96    .66        1.9611  4.3    4.66    4,76    4.6  4.66
Y araw4. .i                        5.26  -1.961        .8     5. 4.101    4.6    4.56   4.911  5.1  6. 3
W/Caeill Om4. 5t.9                  1.66  -5.06       2.96   2.1i       4.36   0.?1    1.2    1.5    1.1156 2.06
A4te Cete/cWv Grosti' 19            .41  -5.66 14.56  S.16   4.66       -1.-7   -1.96  -0.56   0.96   2.26  2.56
F;.1tw   Cwcapits X X   63.       12.61  -7.411     10.2   -1.06       -1.16   4.66   4.01    O."9    2.76  2.71
*4.1 0.99 Service t L  (In UN5)   13l.0  144.3       151.4  104S        113.5  t13.4  109.4  110.?  10$.3 90.5
sutrnl 043 6.ruiaE i I/           29.4  2V.A         25.4   17.8        16.9   15.0   13.4   12.7   1t.1  9.4
*tenat ob9  .rvuice.AM            25.2   25.7         24.3   16.4       1U.0   14.2   12.7   t2.1   1t.3  9.0
.446 r   ;1*/CP                    13.1   11.9        1t.1    7.6         7.0    6.2    5.s    5.2    4.7  3.0
:..  v%mnte"_t/00                  24.0   20.2        20.2   10.5        16.$   22.1   22.7   22.5   12.5  12.5
_^4siq  vinlAg/P                   is.3   11.5        10.6   18.2        11.0   .18.5   14.5   15.0   14.9  14.6
4sti9nal Satinles/P                15.2   15.9        15.2  1U.S         te.1   19.5   21.1   21.5   21.0 20.S
48fglnel Sevin" Rats               -1.9    0.1         0.0    o.?        4.8    0.6    0.5    0.5    0.1  0.1
*.bl1g 1nw.t"n4/6  V               11.9    7.9         7.S    7.5         5.5    6.5    5.5    *.S    6.4  0.2
%bili b     #li/G    /t            4.0   -1.1         2.0    1.4         3.2    4.4    6.1    6.1    8.0  S.0
srivgte Investem.t/90  S/           11.4   10.0        11.3   12.1       1 3.3   13.5   13.6   13.5   131.6  13.?
Privete Savtng./i                    6.3   12.1        5.7   11t.$        5.      9.1    9.5 *.9    9.9  9.9
041vernset ftvRmuo/=P 4/           25.9   28.8        24.0   22.9        25.7   2S.5   23.3   22.0  S2.2 21.7
Cesrant Yet. Si;nituo/Pw            87.7   32.5       29.3   29.1        2.0   27.6   2.9   26.3   25.6  25.0
ovw.rnaae  Waf*it or Surplus /MP    4.6   -9.0         .5.3   4.2        4.8   .4.2   .3.6   ..3.S    4.4 -4.3
(MP Deflator (19751OO0)            1o6.7  154.2       190.2  192.t       197.9  208.4  209.2  215.1  121.1 22.3
Annahl 1 rate of ElaN.            3.56    2.0C       3.81    1.2ti      I.-    2.66   2.581   2.81   2.66  2.86
awte of on Orwmib Rate             12.4t   9.11         .311   1.51      -2.26   4.11   5.41   8.S1   1.42  1.21t
Easorte of r /00P                   44.5   42.5        43.7   45.3        41.4   41.t   41.1   40.0   39.6  38.9
te  .f am Ocratl 6h99               25.25  -4.561      10.20   0.66       0.51   0.71   2.ti5     . 2.511.6t 2.76
Zerta of O/9P                       6fi.3   51.2      83.2   52.6        52.0   50.3   4s.3   4t.3   47.4  45.5
Current Account (la USS) 4/       -165.6  -154.3     -177.7 -t?.0       -204.9  -201.0 -.119.I -195.0  -207.2 -221
CurP.nt M.ount/40P 4/              -15.5  -12.4       -18.0  -t0.2       -12.8  -11.3  -10.0   -9.1   -9.0  4i.9
1/ Afte the^ 1959 Pae; Club 4994
i0te4hgt ingi
3/ Includuug publlc enterpeia.;
4/ ftlud;ns grantw .



- 49 -                  ANNEX 6a
Page 1 of 4
PRFql#' "C  &E LA REPUBLIQUE                    REPUBLIQUE TQOOLAIS8
Union_Paix-Solldarit6
)IINISTERE DE IA SANTE PUBLIQUE
_-_ o..*_
DECRIT NO              /PR.
FORTANT CREATION D'UN COrITE TECHNIQUE DE
COORDItIATION ET DE SUIVI DU PROORAR*IE
D1 SANTE ET POPULATION
LE  PM0:II ENT  DE  LA  REPUBLIQUE
Sur rapport du Ministre de lo SantO  Publique I
V'u la Constitution, notamment en see articles 20 et 21 ;
V'u le decret n Bi-137 du 11 taL 1982 fixant lea principes
g4niraux dloroanisation does D6partements Minist6riele ;
Vu le d6ctet n   qQ58 /PR portant organisation et attribution
du Hinistare de la Sant4 Publique.
LE CONSEIL DES MINISTRES ENTENDU
D E C R E T E; i
ARTICLL L,..  ll set cr64 supris du KinLatfre do le Saut6 Publique
un Comit6 Technique de Coordination et de Suivi du Programme de Bante
et Population*
AR'TICLE 2.. Le Comit6 T,@hnioue do Coordination et de Suivi du
Programme de Sant6 et Population so compose comme suit s
- Le ?linistre de la Sante Publique       .................. Pr&sident,
- le Representant du Minist6re du Plan et des
Mines ...................V......*...* Vice-President,
. Un Ilepresentant du Ministere de l'Econoiiie
ek des Finances      ..................... Membres



- 50 -                         ANNEX 6a
Page 2 of 4
L-ux Repr6sentants du Ministere des Aftairee4ocisleo
et de la Condition F6ndnino..........................
- Un Repr6sentant du Minist6re de l'Infarmation*.......,-"
- Un Representant du Minist4re du Developpement Rural..
- Un Repr6sentant du Ministere de lEducation Nationale
et de la Recherche Scientifique
Les Directeurs Centraux et R6gionaux du Minist6re de
de     la    Sante Pb'u ......... e........... "
- Un Representant du Ministere de ltInt6rieur et de la
S6curit4... ............. ...... . -"-...                   t
- Un Representant du l1inistere de lVEnseignement Techni_
nique et de la Formation Professionnelle..............   -"-
U Un Representant du Ministere de l'Environnement et dui
Touriar,e.... * .......... ...*...... 0* 00*0000
Un Representant de la  bhaabro do Commdroev &VAIoultaw
re ot dtIndustrie .o....6.....  ** n
Le Sc:re'tariat nera assure par le Directeur de la Planifisatten
et de la Formation du Ministere de la Sant6 Publique.
ARTICLE 3.- Le Comit6 Technique de Coordination et de Suivi du
Programme de Sant6 et de Population a pour attributions de :
- surveiller la mise en oeuvre effective des mesures et aotions
reletivee au programme d'ajustement sectoriel dans les domaines do popu-
lation. et de sant6 resumees dans le Plan dtAction, afin de garaetir
leur coherence et comptabilit6 avec des objectife g6n6raux des poljttquSs
sectorielles ;
- suivre llex6cution des 4tapes interm4diaires pr6vues dans le
Plan d'Aation du Programme ;
- examiner periodiquement tous lea aspects du Plan en vue de
propeser des modifications ou des ronforcomonts des .6caniames et. etioat&
gien mis en place au service des objectifs assignus aux prograimed
prioritaires retenus ;



ANNEX 6a
-51 -                             Page 3 of 4
- 6vcluer periodi(uement l'ad6quation des actions et des mesures
pris"s par le Mirtist6re do la Sante Publique et par le M4niit4re des
Affrires Uoci:.tle9 et de la Condition Feminine pour assurer le respeot du
caletidi'icr de5 actions retenues dans le I'lan d'Action du Programme ;
- v.v;iuer pe'riodiouement l'impact des programmes prioritaires
des nervic'a retenus dsns le Prorramme d'AJustement Sectoriel ;
- procAder au moiris une fois par an A l'valuation des activit6s
dans lee secteurs Sante et Population ;
- suivre l'utilisntion des aides ext6rieures pour eviter des
doubles emplois et pour ansurer une coherence entre les prop:rammes et
projets finnnc6s par lee (livers bailleurs de fonds aux fins d'une
affectation rationnelle des ressources dans lee sqeoteurs desiifaires
Socinles ot de Sante et Population ;
- etablir lea rapports d'activites trimestriels k soumottre
aux baillourt  de fonds coittribuant au finar- ment des programmes do
sant6 ;
- teiiir le Comite National du Programme d'Ajustement Sectoriel
et lei bailleurs de fondls inform6s de tous obstacles ou delais
susce)tibles de freiner le respect des calendriers d'cxecution retenus
pour lee diff6rentes tgches.
AhlTICLE 4.- Le Comite Technique - Coordination et de Suivi (CTCS)
se ri"tnit P.U moins une fois tous les trimostres pour examiner lea
progrAs r6alis6s dans l'ex6cution du Plan d'Action et une foie sur deux
pour examiner ler programmes prioritaires de prestation des services
financ6s dans le Programme d'AJustement Sectoriel.
Il pr6pare au plus tard le 31 Decembre de chaque ann&e des
programmes annuels de travail et des plans financiers relatife aux
realisations et aux objectifs du Programme sur la vase des indicateurs
fixes dana le Plan d'Action.
*.../...



-52 -
ANNEX 6a
Page 4 of 4
I1 pout faire appol A toutoa lea Qompktences susceptible* de
l'aider (danas 1'accomplissement de sa mission.
ARTICLZ 5._  Le Hinistre de la Sant6 Publique, le Hinistre du
Plan et (lea Mines ainsi q.tc tous lee sutres Hiniatres concernee sont
eharr6s de lexecution du rersent decret qui sera publi6 au Journal
Officiel de la Republique Togolaise.
Lam4, le 2 Octobre 1990
.> GANENRAL a .. .EYADEMA
4   *4
POUR AHPLIATIOIT                                           :
LE MINISTRE DE a E A LA.  --
PREglDEIICX DE   IIEF  L14GE                          0.
o a*. la  Al ~ ~    ~      4. 
POUR  AHPITof  Vao                         :
L~~ )4UIISTUE Di~~~~~~~~ ~~ A LA~.



- 53 -                            ANNEX 7a Page 1 of 2
FRESIDEricl DE LA RE) UBWIeUE.                   FEPUBLIUUE TOGOLAISU
' on-Pat x-SQlISdait4..........
?INISTERI  .  LA SANTE PUBLIOUE
DECRET N   90-158    /PR
PortAnt Organisation et Attributions
du Minist4re do la Sante Publique
LE PRESIDENT DE LA REPUBLIgUE,
Vu is rapport du Ministre de la Sante Publique ;
Vu l'article 15 de la Constitution ;
Vu le D4cret n'82-137 du 11 M4ai 1982 fixant les principes
gen6raux d'organisation des Departements Minist&riele 
Viu le Decret n'90-18 Qf 15 F&vrier 1990 portant reotruotvration
diu GouverAcment ;
LE CONSEIL DES ?INISTRES ENTENDU
D E C R E T I t
Article ler.- Le Minist4re de la Sant6 Publique est eharS6 de
la d4finition des grandes orientations de la politique sanitaire du pays
en ter'ant compte dos principaux axes de developpoment socio-6conomique
du Gooverneiio.unt et des probllemes prioritaires de Sant# Publique.
A cet effet, il intervient dans les domaines ci-apres 
- lanalyse de la situatioA sanitaire du pays I
- In supervision et la coordination des programmes de
devoloppement sanitaire ;
la mobilisation des ressources indisponsables au fonction-
nement du dOpartement ;
*.../...



~ 54             ~               ANNEX 7a
Pa-ge Z-of 2
- In coordination ot la coop4rftion avea leo institutions
natAouales el. internationalee susceptiblos d'interveoir
dans le domaine de la Sant6 I
- la 16gislation sanitaire.
Article 2._  Le Ministre de la Sant4 Publiquo est assite
dann sa miscion dun comlte technique de coordination et de suivi
des programmes de sant6.
Article 3.- Le Hinist4re de ia Sante Publique comprend s
- Le Cabinet du Ministro
- la Direction G6n6rale de la Sant4 Publique
- des Directions Centrales
- dea Directi-onis Rlgioneles de la Sante
- des Directions Prefectorales de la Sante.
Article 4.- L'organisation et lea attributions de la
Direction O'nernle de 1" Sante Publique et de see directions seront
flx6es pat decret.
Article 5.- L^ Hinistre do la Sant6 Publique est ckarge de
Il.x6cution du present d6cret qui sora publi4 au Journal Officiel do
la Republique Togolaiae./-
Lom6, le 2 Octobre 1990
POUR AMPLIATIOt;.N/2*9  e
LE HINISTi 2 D"LLGJUI A LA                                          D 4YAD MA
PaZSIjkNCS D  LA 1.2PUBLItiUE
obewo



- 55                       ANNEX 7a
Page 2 of 4
L-.ux Representanta du Minist4re des Alfairee-Sociale.
et de la Condition F4minine... . ....................        mes
- Un Pepr6sentant du Minist4re de lInformation...*...*
- Un Repr6sentant du Minist4re du Developpement Rural..       -
- Un Representant du Ministere de ltEducation Nationale
et de la Recherche Scientifique                            -"-
Lee Directeurs (entraux et R6gionaux du Minist6re de
de la Sante Publique ...................  . ....-.'_
- Un Representant du Ministere de llIntdrieur et de la
- Un Repr6sentant du llinistere de 1#Enseignement Techni-.
nique et de la Formation Profeesionnelle..............   -"f-
- Un Representant du Minist4re de lVEnvironnement et du
Tiourisme ........... *..*... ..... .6.-"_.
- Un Representant de la .'1ambro do Comm4rog &'Alftoultu-
re  et  d'Indusltrie ..........  ,,, "
Le Sea:retariat sera assure par le Directeur de la Planificatie.
et de la Formation du Ministere de la Sant6 Publique.
ARTICLE 3.- Le Comite Technique de Coordination et de Suivi du
Programme de Sante et de Population a pour attributions do :
- surveiller la mise en oeuvre effective des mesures et actions
relatives au programme dajustement sectoriel dans lee domaines do popuw
lation. et de sant6 resum6es dans le Plan d'Action, afin de garantir
leur coherence et comptabilit6 avec des objectifs g6n6raux des politiques
sectorielles ;
- suivre ltex6cution deo etapes interm6diaires pr6vue. dans le
Plan d'Aotion du Programme ;
- examiner p6riodiquement tous lee aspects du Plan en vue de
propeser des modifications ou des ronforcomonts des  ficaniamee et. otat6
gies mis en place au service des objectits assagn6& aux progrLme8
prioritaires retenus



56 -                        ANNEX 7.a
Page 3 of 4
6v-cluer periodicluement l'adkquation des actions et does meoures
prise?8 par le Minist6re d*e la Sante Publique et par le Ministdre de
Affsires Goci:..ler et Ae in Condition Ferinine pour assurer le respect du
caletidrier dea actions retenues dans le P'lan d'Action du Programme t
- _  v..luer rpriodiczuement l'impact des programmes prioritaireo
des nervic-a retenus dAins le Prorremme d'AJustement Sectoriel I
- proc4der au moinos une fois par an & 1'6valuation deo activit6a
dans lee secteurs Sante et Population I
- suivre l'utiliention des aides extirioures pour eviter dea
doubles eniplois et pour assurer une coherence entre lee programmes et
projets finatnc6s pn.r lea (livers bailleurs de fonds aux fins d'une
affectationi retionnelle do- ressources dans lea Sqo,teurS des'Aifdares
Socinles et de Sante et Population ;
- Atrblir lea rapiorts d'activites trimestriels a soumettr@
aux baillouirs de fonds cotitribuant au finar- ment des programmes de
sant6 ;
- teziir le Comite NntionaJ du Programme d'Ajustement Sectoriel
et lei baillours de fonds informes de tous obstacles ou d6lais
susce'itibles de froiner le respect des calendriera d'execution retenus
pour les diff6rentes tgches.
AI.TICLE 4._ Le Coniite Technique de Coordination et de Suivi (CTCS)
se reltnit P.u moins une fois tous lea trimpstres pour examiner lea
progrAs r6alis6s dans l'execution du Plan d'Action et une foi saur deux
pour examiner ler programmes prioritaires de prestation des servicea
finances d.ana le Programme d'AJustement Sectoriel.
Il propare au plus tard le 31 Decembre de chaque annee des
programmes annuels de travail et des plans financiers relatife aux
realinations et aux objectife du Programme sur la base des indicateurB
fix6s dans le Plan d'Action.



-57 -
ANNE,X 7a
Page 4 of 4
I1I peut faire appel a toutoe lea oompetenceo usceptibles de
l&ije1r daus l1accompliesoment de ea mission.
ARTICLE 5._  Le Ministre de 1A Sant6 Publique,  le Ministre du
Plan et des Hines ainei quc tous lee eutres Ministree concern6a sout
!harg6e de 1'ex6cution du rr6sent d6cret qui sora publi6 au Journal
Offielel de la RUpublique Togolaise.
L.m4, le 2 Octobre 1990
..    ;* .S1ind:
GQINERAL 0.. LYADEMA
POUR A?WLIATIOU                            '-:, *; 
LE MINISTRE DJ   E A LA                          .
PRIDSZDEiC] D3     EFULUE
Al 



-5S8 -                           ANNEX 7b
itge lrof 8
PIL WIDJ,OCR DE TAt. TflTUB3tJTC!UV          RVU1I.LIQUE  TOGOAIJSE
UXT1O1l-PAIXX--O1J#T1WfI'T
M1IISTI'... ,JE. TM'iA SlUtTE PUnMIQttt ,-..........
DF.CORT NIB 'Q lJSjjy}
i ,!60I.^lTt OnRGJUtIS&T.ION DM ',f.'., L5IC.,1 12DJ,-t L  D=-ECTIOII
G!PJ32RALZ DM L,i S:I 1'Ti. PUIBLIQ.U]B
Sur lo rap,iort du HIiiostre de la Sant4 Publiquel
VuI ltarticle 15 de la Constitution;
Vu la loi nPO1-8 du 23 Juin 1981 portant organisation territorats;
Vu la loi n001-9 du 23 Juitn 1981 portant r4organinatiozi AdistraUvel
Vu le decret 81-129 du 6 Juillet 1981 portant mddalit4a d'applicationo
de la loi ort,aniquo n031-8 du 23 Juin 1981;
Vu le d'cret 62-06 du 19 Juin 1962 portant statut vartioulier du cadre
du pernonnel riddical et teelmniquo de la seant'  publique;
Vi- le fleoret 82-137 du 11 mai 1982  izant les prinoipee g6ndrau=
49organimtion des d6partements mtnist4riele;
V.u le ddcret na* --L-    du   2 Octobr;  1990                porteant
orerwionationa et attributiono du Miniat&re de la Sant4 Publique;
Vu le docret nP90-18 diu 13 t6vrior 1990 portant restraoturat1on du
Gouv,rneieent;
Lfl (ioHSiIL DM 1MIHISTRIES 1MITIW
DEaRBTE i
Section I.  La Dir'ction GEn6rsle eo l.a Sant4 PubllLo
Za:ae 1.-   Orgnnation
Article ler.-  Il cut ard6t sous Ilautorit4 du titre de la Santd
Publique une direction ge6irale de la sant6 publique qui eoimprend does
directions  contrales,  des  direotions r6gionalee et des   directions
pr4.Lectorales.



-59 -                              ANNME 7b
rage 2 of 8
Artllu  L.-  ac "Ur-aiou 36113.alo de la ontd piublique out d1r4g.
par wai dlrectottr 3;asa nr.ti .p- r1 crot sur propooition du Mimsatre de Ia
8aa0  publiquo.
Lo dleooWxtxr o; vrl OAit Otro uii tideoin adtizinetrateux de usat
publitiuo,
Artilel ',.- lo ':?tt  gf,: 4rsa  e~st          muvst   UP= di te    gd 
vdjoiz't non 6 pcv.r .wlouC du !i L'a de l.a Swit4 Publique, 11 remplac 1
d1iect1ur Ga&.ral eox *   ' c t 1nnce  I11 doit otre um u4deolnde eant6 V021"O
PwaDhe- 23    &c.ri.butl,Joiw,
Articlo 4.- I.a c2ixoeu:ioa gtWrale de la swts publqu. oet obaR14  I
- die ltidentIfIcation deR problnmes prlorltairee do snt et L.a
dovmixWes jutst.l.,iabloe d uxe 16g3.latiot dont 11U UoTL+ %= "zvIL
at reile iL l1appllcationj
do In rmine en oeuvre de la t . Liqu? --nitAalre Uticalo  I
dlo                 :.% 1- OlLf: '. .;:m et l'avnluation des    grpain
do firntt pu'biiqux)
= do la d! L1.litiou '" .1 Iii ,.taeure de sante et de sU0.. doe
pro ,-rw.T I1 
- do  1' ..- tion des besoins on personnella In *so*otiX d8
casdi;^: Wpour 1ea buuixaco- de forration et de rzayol3abo
- de ln  o.',ribu.;ion & la r64viuon des pro8roes des8 doolos dO
format-on du perrnnel de sant6 on fonotion des nouveUoe
orientntionw  et dclol,     i;:f du t46partenent;
- de 1'ot,;e  ivi,l doe rT6among soientlifque  ot des roncoutrS 4'
peranna:el de la sait6 sur lo plan nationzrl I
- de 1 'aboratiCIi et de ltexzoution du budget de seorvioes  d
- dI'   .  t  .1   ..l T   -ibMentlons sanitaires dlor
tocir.i1q.te;
- de 3:% p        ;i1 dos rapporta pour le l1ni.otre de La GiM
publique;
- de  la  ei.laborrntion avec Le" orgnnisations aItIonUlos  et
_ _w



- 60 -
ANNEX 7b
Page 3 of 8
Article 5.-  Ia i'.cntio      , 11:n4ra2le de la oantd publiquc oapren4 Ica
dirootions oentraleo milus.1,lten:
l  dfirectioui do (a. pl'Ltifloation at de la formation I
- la lirection des4fffres cG4Iuties;
- la diroation don soi::a d(e san1t priairee 
- 1- 'frotion Ui. . etablicrLiLenlents dco soin s
- 1a  lireotlion ion phpa.vtaoios, den laborntoires et des dquipamouta
t.3clILisquea.
oS,alz'Dvh  1 -  ]Ja J'Jxc(  .t.on do la PlaiClcation et dola FmtM
Artiolo 6.- L.a  .i.recUoLin do la p:Lanification ot de la fo'matton est
dirig6e pri' un 6conomia Lo ou pnr un administrateur de aantd publique
gr4eolalide on plw diicnitLon.
Ia (tlroc iotn (lo la plani.fication ot de ln formation oat obargde *
- de la )lazxifI or-tioUn  t de J  j'roCrarnwation des aotivit4s du
d6partement t
- d(e  la  oocrd(m-Ulon dea progrnumest  la  conception  et
11or;tuicatlril 1 .J   6 Ludos proposdes par lea autreo directiona t
- de  La   ptvrUoi,oip.on  &  l4laborntion  des  normes
ItnftwostruoLwes et dtdquipomentag des indloateuro de sant  et
des termes de r6_-,cr, pour le recrutement de  oonaultants I
- de l. mliso cn place ot du suivi d'un syeteme d infomation et
de gestion t
- de la proract ton at de la conduito doe travaux de rooherches
emiitairee ;
- de  la  cocrt'li -Lion des travaux do prdparation des rapport*
dtne 'ivit4of e;t 1niblicationo;
- do lna coordirnilUion et de la programmation des rdoyolag.es des
oziatioto I;.nt ZL 11int6riour qutI ilext6riour du pap  *
- Colla;oro nreu lca linistbre de l.'nsoirnement Tchnique et de la
lDon.ir A .ir" -r4'nn,tioMIo pour *c reorutement dAms loa Ecoleo do
Porration.
.1..f.



- 61 -
ANNEX 7b
Page 4 of 8
r..    ihe 2.-  ka Diroction d(c ACfairea Colovnunwoa
Ir'lticlu 7.-   La dircctio;i dlon Arlairea Commnes cot d1rig6e par un
cadreo :up6rieur ap6icilis6 o!t finances publiques ou en adm n:stration Con
servioco de sante.
lin dixootion dos Afiraires Cor.mea etnt oharg4e t
- do ln coordinatiou. deu activitds dea diff6renta servoes an
minti6re dadmniistration ;
_ do la pru'paratioiti la adfenfe, 1 ox6cution et la oantrOle du
bud,et du d6partetneiit;
- de  la  oonitribu-tion  &  la d6fixnition  des  inormes
dItinfrastructures ot d'6quipeouonta ;
- do l'org,aniLr;t: toijt deao  quipooiants m6dico-teohnbques ot du
mat6riol roulvutt
- du d6velo?_pereziti et de la r.;l  -, oeuvro dlun  aytOm  addquat
de go,tion deo rvirmourcc:- htc  .-o clu d6partement.
rar.axaphe.-   La D(rtclio ('hs ';olns dc .;. : ro Drimafreu
Article 8.-   La direoc ,   -;  soins do sant6 primairos eOt dirig4e
par tui m6decin de sant6 publique,
La direction deo sol3   de ontits primalres eat charg4o t
- de la reoherohe dos meilleures strat4gies d'applioation de la
politique sanitairc .an1;tonale pour me couverture tot'ae de la
population en SOitlS do aint4 ;
- du d4voloppeoment .lo totutea leq actlvit6s li4e3 4 ila smnt de ia
r.ere et de ItesLfant ;
- de lIanalyse de In situation sard.taire du pays ai.n dtidentfter
lea problhuios zr1i'-'f!rthIes de sant6 ;
- deo la mise en oou; r- d      tr am  ' A4 c 'c lutto contra lea Uaiadies
tranwnioaiblee 



- 62 -
iage  - of 8
- do la pronotion *eG 1'4;ygikie du rLiliou et do Ia td
com-n.uuaubtairo ;
- do la d6finition des indicateurs nitionaux de  tantd pubLd.que I
- cle in d6luition do n1ornea ot standards dlinfrastxuotures et
didquijotients sanitairesI
- de In ooordLiuntion, du suivi ot (la 116valuation, des progames
relevuat de sn .'1roction.
PArv raXho 4-.-   1)S _co'iLun dca Etablisserviontg. de Soine
Artiole 9.-  Ln di-uticon deo -tablis3cments de so01x est di.rtlg  pa
un taddeckt spdaialittd en ;;Lation des services do saat.
E11ao ent chnrafee. s
- doe lori.entnt:i.ou,  1orgtanisation  ot  la coordination   du
ddvelonpeTaont (o la n6decine hospitalibre des seoto ura publioe et
priv&a S
do ln rochercneio dos uoyona hurLains# teohniquoe ot financlers
ndaessairon   ' ltexercico doo  activites des struetures
hiospitcd1.rcs ;
- de la ddfiniti.oa  des noracs dtinfrastructures et dt6quipemeate
hoopitaliere ;
- de la d4fititlon des conditions d'agrdmcnt des h8pitau=t cllnlqu
et cabinets rddioaux priv6sb ainri quo de leur oontr8i..
ParaRraphc S.-. La Diroction des Phcmaioe   des LaboratoL.o e   dew
RWuPer.onts Teohnioueo
Artiole 10.- La *lirection des phurwaciest dos laboratoiros et doe
dquIpamenta techniques eat dirig6e par un phurm,oien spdoialls6 en
,vimlnstration ot gestion.
Elle eat chargeo s
- de 11orsflniv;ation et de la mise on oeuvre dtun vyst&me iiable et
ratioiLnel  d1npprovisionueteent  en  mtdicamnnts  e0senticls pour
llonosemblo des formations sanitaires publiqueef



- 63 -
ANNEX 7b
Page 6 of 8
- do lTdlhboratiol ot (lo In uiioe A Jour deo listeo  de adicaments
o-3sontileO, de r6actifo, de fournitures toohniques et bi=4dical
on foneLion deos dli'C4rentoa cat6rorles de foruationa sanitaires t
- do llorC,naLLatioa *lu contr8le de la qualit6 des  Sd(lownents t
- do  la  cofltboration  nvec  lee  oraniaioas  nationaux  et
internationaux do lutte contre ltabus et le trafio illiolto des
drogtoe ;
d lo llorimlisition it de la suron,rsion do la phiamao-vigilanoo
- lu coitr3ole de la fiabilitd des me'thodes dtanalyoes utilistses d
lea lnboratoiros rublics et priv4s ;
- de la protiotion de la pluwaoop6e traditionmnLle.
"OOtion III.- Loa Dirco.tioan RdRionaLes de L.a Santd
/Lrtiulc 11.- I1 eat or,'6 au chef-lieu do oaque r6gion admuistrative
me directio l rg,>ionale de la uartiU dirigde ptr un medeoin de sant4 publiquo.
Ito diroctiioo r(6;ioalo%1 do la santd eat oharg4e :
- dec ltnadmi.tistration don services de sant6 de la r6gion;
t-.lc la d6finition dea probl6moa prioritaires de sant(l do l  r6giou
ffin iole leur recloorcher doe solutions appropri4es,
- dAo lt,!valtuation .leo besoins en personnel dont il assuro la gestion,
ln initatLion ot identifie lea besoins en formation;
- de l'idonl;ifcaVtlon des bosoins on infrastructure,t mat6rielsa et
quipapements ai si. quo de ltapprovisioruement d4centrnl.ad en
nddickri'ents esoanxtiels ;
du  recutcil, du traitoment et de Jtanalyse  des  informationa
oanitniros,
- (o  -t. tunte a Jour do la onrte sanuitaire de la r6gion;
- de  VlaVilioatir,n des nor'es  et 3tandards et du  respeot de la
rb,4e,l,ientatioii rnrtitaire dans ln r6gion,
- do 1a surtvcijl.lice 4pid6miologiquo et de celle des catastrophes
iaturellas ou necidentel1eo,
- de la coor'inlntion de toutes los interventions dane la r6gion on
rinti6ro (l0 satit6e.



- 64 -
ANNEX 7b
Page 7 of 8
Artiole 12.-  Lo Iirceteur r6cio(nl do 2la =i-,an e8t as.ot6 dlun
comite do sont6 dont ltobjectirf oet dlasocior lea difZsoti oactoure
d'acti-ritds & la rdsolution doa problkitoo do s-uit. ailznai qu'u Li proo.
Br;lXtion eoaitalre rj,ionaln.
I,n compooition de ce co'iitd cora dternni:. p r v-:td  Hita M1nistre
do In -m4td publiquo.
feotion IT.- Los Directions Pr4foctorn ls do ln S,.ait6
Article 13.-  Il eat crUz au nivoau de cta-jue prdri> fu.reot     xsr  direction
Prfeolorale de la sntd d:Ur,1go pr  un radecin do .santd prabl..que.
]-a direction prd:Zetornle de la santd est ohargde s
de coordotimer, uupervisert as=urer le ulv' et 6valuor
l'ex4cution des progrmnwes do santd mis en oouvre d-uis la
pr6fecture,
- de recuUllir, traiter, stocker et in-7-  '- lroulation de
l'inforriation statistique en nmont et an axnl (LCero-n$fohaton),
- de dresser ln carto saaitafro le la pr6feoctrwo,
- diassurer La gestion dea reseources humnines, mnatrielles et
finax4oitros de In subdivision sanittairo
- de,proposer au directeur r4gionna lea affeobntions et mutaticne
du personnel de la subdivision sanitairep
- d1orguiiser r6gulibrornent does ntoliers de r6oyclage pour le
personnel de terrain,
* 4 d!assurer la surveillance dpid4miolog1que et inforamor la
direction r6gionlae en cao  d'4pidmie, de catastrophre  niaturlaUe
ou accidonltellefi jurvar.' 4ane i- *jUM- "-4- w-3uj alro
do collaboror avoc toutes les institutions intorvmnnat dans
le donanio de In sante au niveau de la pr6fectaro et coordonner
* laura nctivitVa.



- 65 -
ANNEX 7p
Page 8 of 8
':cet ton V.- Dlp  i        C
Articlo 14*- Tes dirxectmwus centraux, los directeur9 r46iontau  elt
lea diretcutra pr6rectorroxx atmi; not:1ite par arrt6 du Ministro   do la  antd
publique.
Arti.lo 15..- Jor nolr ttion des directioiio centraleo, r6gionales et
pr4footorlev ncorn prdoin4o par wrr8td du Iliniotre do la oatt4 pub3quu.
Articlo 16.- Lo  pri3cit  decrot abrogo toutes leo dispogitiona
antdrievroe oontrafreop notncum"avit oelles du dooret n69-121/PR-     diu 10 Jun
1969 yortant rdorgmenotioii den oerviaes de la direction g4ndra.e do 1. sent
pb3blquo.
Ar,to3le 17.- Lo Mti.otro do la santt publique cot oetg6 de
l'.x6oution du pr4sent decret (qui sera publ-i au journal oCU.loel de Is
Rdpubltqu Togo3zig/_.
~ t *ct-bre 1990
L OIllISTI flE    A Il
L] MflURW D I1EUJm     IQUIE A



- 66 -
ANNEX 7 c
Page 1 of 11
PmxSImuz DIE LA RJMThLQUB                        REPU=LQUE  T0G0LAI3E
Unioan4alx-Solidarltd
IBNISTERIl DE LA S.'TE TmunE
DWE0P.E NV 90-191 R
EAIPT .LLORGAISI,TION   S FUMISSAMS
HOSPIAIMS 1DE LA REPIQUE TOGOEAX8E
LE IRENBT IS L& RZWLQtEM
SMr le rapport du Ministre de la Santd Publiqu.
Vu    Conastitaution notaeut en son article 15 i
vu la Loa n 60425 dU 2 Ao@t 1960 porant orgmsation des
dtabligemnnts hospitallere de l Redp%blJa I
Yu  s ZoiS n 81-08 du 23 Juin 1981 portaut orlstion territoriale 
Vu Is D4oret ze 58&99 du 10 Ddoembre 1958 portent ordation de Comma-
setns Ad4ut4itratives des e.bliseantu bospita2ors du Togo I
Va le D6ret ne  71n206 di 16 Novombre 1971 por     org     on du
Cetoe Houpitilir Univeruitairo as liome 
Yu le Ddort e 82-137 du 11 1K4 1982 flnt les priiots  g6n6rai
d'or      t   de dpsrtzte 1          t4riel  It
Tu le Deret se 87.47 diu 14 M1& 1987 portant or4atiom d Coetre :tospi-
taloer UrSverltalre Oapus t
Vu 2e Ddoret zP 89-121 di I sr Aodt 1989 portt rzglmet sur la
OciotablUi  pb2que I
Va le Ddorot :  90.158 diu 2 Oetobre 1990 portent o ation et
attribut1os du ll1litre de 2* Sat6 Piub2que g
VgA 2l Ddoret n  90-159 au 2 Ootobre 1990 portant ornlsstion des
servioes de I* Dfiretion Gdn6rale de la Santh Publique I
Vu le Doret if 90-18 du 13 P4vri  1990 portaut restoturation du
T3i OC tn dt  Ministes entendu t
DBaRETB i
Aroe 1er-   L    tsblissemenaut       illoo got c2as6s
meon losw lieu dtSipl.aation, lour vooation# leu  oapaoStd et leur
dqapent Oe en reison de lo1 ap  aelstian en t



- 67-                                ANNEX 7c
Page 2 of 11
- Centres Hospitaliers U1iversitaires t
- Contres Hospitaliers R6gionaux I
- Centres Hospitallers Pr4feotorauz t
- R8pltauz Seoonaigres ;
- ou en H8pitaus Sp*oialises.
Artiole 2.- Lep 6tabllsenments hospitaliers sont des 6tablssements
publios 4 oaraotbre adminlstratif dot6s de ls personnalit4 morale et do
llautonomi, finanoibre. Ils sout plaodosous la tut8oe administrative du
Aii~stre de la Sant6 Publique.
Article 3.- Le Centre Hospitalier Universitalre le Centre Hospitalier
E4Oional at le Centre Hospitalier Prefeotoral peuvent capovtozr un ou
puauieur. 6tablissements.
Artiole 4.- Le Ceutre Eoupitaier  niversitaire (CH.U.) eot uitue
dans ume vielle  dige do Eaculte de M6deolne. 11 a pour fonctions essential-
los, ltaccuail et le traltement des malades, ltouaIlgnement et la rooherche.
Le Centre Hospitalier Universitaire doit poassder i
- des services de m4deoine et de gp4oalit4. uddioales ;
- does services de obirurgie et do spdoialit6e oaeo    ;
- des services de gyn4ooelogi et d'obot4trique I
- un quartir pyobiatrique I
- des services do rdadaptetion foctionsfle I
- des services de diapostic (laboratolres, rudiologl et unatde
dleXplctA -jm . fonotionnoflo) ;
- un servlee de paemoie ;
- des sections dth8pita doe our et d'hospitaliuation & domicile p
- des services de consultations et de so_ne oxternes pour obaque
disoiplne pratiqude dans l'tabDe_t.
Article 5.-   Le Centre  losptLIr R6gionl (s.H.R.) et Implant6
u cbef-Xieu doe lB R4gi  AdMSid statlve.
Cleat un oentre d'ancueil, de traitoemnt, de formstion at de reeherobo
an solences m4dicales.
*    .



- 68 -
ANNEX 7c
Page 3 of 11
1. doit poss4der s
- des services de m6deoins et de sp6cialit6s medicales;
- des services de ohirurgie et de sp4cialites chirurgicales ;
- des services de gyn6cologie et d'obst6trique;
- un quartier psychiatrique;
- des services de .'diagnostio ; (Laboratoire, radiologie et unite,
d'exploration fonctionnelle);
- des services de readaptation fonctionnelle I
- des services de pharmaoie
- des servioes de consultations et de soine externes pour ebaque discipline
pratiqu4e dans lt6tablissement.
Artiole 6.- Le Centre Hospitalier Pr6feotoral (C.H.S.) est implante au ohef-
lieu de Pr6feoture. I1 eat un Centre d.4tocueill de traitement et de formtion on
scienoes medioales I
11 doit posseder i
- des services de m6deoine g4n4rale et de ape4ialit6s m4dioslea
- des servioes de chlrurgie g4n4rale et de sp4oialit4s obruzgioales;
- des services de gynecologie et dtobst6trique ;
- des services de diagnostio; (Laboratoio et radiologie);
- des services de r4adaptation fonotionnelle ;
- des services de pbarcoioe ;
- des services de oonsultations et de soine extornes pour obaque discipline
pratiqu4e dans lt6tablissement.
Article 7.-  LH8pital Secondaire eat un 4tablissement public d'accueil et
de scins lmplant daans ue vilUle ou agglomeration autre que le ohef-lieu de
prdfeoture.
I1 doit possdder t
- des services de m6decine gdn4rale p
- des services de dhirurgie g6nrzsle p
- un service do diagnostic (Laboratoire et radiologie)
Article 8.- IaH8pital Sp6cialis6 est un dtablissement dont la vocation
prmwcipale ou exclusive eat dtacoue4lf4r et de traitor des muAdes relevant d une
disoipline m6dicale spo4ifique.
Nonobstant le9 dispositions g6nirsles contenues dana le present d6cret, qui lui
sont applicables, des modalitea partioulires de tonotionnoUent lui seront prdcis6es
eelon i  speoialite, par arr8te du Ministre de la Sante Publique.



- 69 -
ANNEX 7C
Page 4 of 11
Artiole 9.-   En d6hors des services de soins et de diagnostio suamention-
nds, lee 4tablisse3ents hospitaliers conportent dgalement des services adxinis-
tratifs et des services g4niraux.
T  I T R E    I
STRUCTURE
CHAPITRE I :  LES CONSE$IS D1AEtMISTRATION
SECTION I t OQ?POSITION
Article 10.- Le Conseil d 'Adin-lstration des C.H.U. set oompoad oce
suit s
le maire de la conmme ou son d6ldgu6                    Pr4aident
douz membres elus en son sein par le Gonseel
Miaiopal                                               Membre
le directeur gendral de la Sant6 Publique        -1
_un repr6sentant du Mlnistre deg Piuanoes
- Un repr6sentant du Ministre du Plan
u un repr4sentaut du Minustre de lVEducation.
- Nationale et de la Reoherobe Soientitique
le president de la Commission Mediosle ConaulGative    -"-
- deux membres elus en eOn sela par la ooimsaion
N4dioale Consultative
-un representant du Mfuiwbre des Affafree Sooialea
- un repr6sentant du Syndioat du Personnel de la Santd e    n
Artiole 11.-  Le Conseil d'AdSminstration des C.H.R. des O..P., des
H$pitam Sphoialisda et des H8pita=x Seoondalree eat oompoe ocame suit I
- le maire de la commune ou son delegu6                   President
- le pr6aident du Conseil de Pr4feooure                   Membre
- un membre elu en  eon seen par le ConseIl Municipal
- un membre elu en son sein par le Conseil de Prwfeoture  _n_
- deux m6decine dont ltun est le President de la Cm-
m ision Uddicale Consultative
- le Directeur R6eional de la Sanb6 Publique pour lee
C.eHR. et les h8pitaux sp6oialis4e de chef-lieu de
r4gion_
.../...0



70 -                              ANNEX 7c
Page 5 of 11
- le Direotour Pr6feotoral de la SantU Publique pour
lea C.H.,o; lea h8pitaux spcialis6a et lee ixpitaux
secondaires                                                M Iembre
- un repr6sentant du Wtinistre des Affaires Sooales._
- le Direoteur Rdional du Plan ou son repr4sontant 
- un iepreoentant du Syndioat du personnel de la Sante
Publique.
Artiole 12._. Lee Direoteurs des 6tablissements hospitaliers sont membre3
des Consells dtAi"inistration aveo voiz oonmiatative et le Seor6tariat est
assurm & leur fltUgence.
Article 1       L Le Conseil pout entendre toute personae de son choix en
ralson de seo coap4tenoe particulires, mur les questiono & ltordre du jour.
Artile 14.-   Les fonotions de pr6sident et de mmbres du Oonseil
dtA Ieifststion sont gratuites. Il pout toutefois Stre allou6 des ndemnit4s
norToupondant au  fris de d4pacemeut ou de e6jour effectivemeot support6s &
Vtoocasion des r6unions du oonsel.
A!tiole 15.-   Nul no pout 8tre membre du Conesel d4Administrtion a -l
eat ftoulAuiw de l'dtabllsmemuat ou stil a des iath4ta direots cu indireoto
dams cot dtabliseement ou  til. a pusonnelleomnt ou par lztSe lafrs do son
oonJointp de see asoendanta ou descendants en llgo dirseote, un int&rt direot
ou Smzidlzt dans la gestlon dtmn dtablimsesent Wriv4 de solns.
Article 16.-  Tout membre qui, sans motif lgitIue stabstiendrat pend.ant
six (6) mols conwAoutlfs dtasister au= sances du Conseil d'AdmInIstration sera
eonuidere oomme divsfsimomdre et il sera pourvu & son remplaemuent danm le
4410 d*un mole,
&Wgle  17.   Los membreos du  onseil dtkdulniatratlon mt omms par
ar&t du dNiistro doe a San*e Publique.
../ .1.



- 71-
ANNEX 7C
Page 6 of 11
SECTIOI  II  : *TTRI2WTIO;S
Artiole 18.- Le Conseil d'Administration 5
- examiine et adopto lea budgets et lea comptes de l'hepital ;
- ddlib4re sur lea prlz de journ6e, sur lea problimes d'orgawsation
de gestion, dtutiflsation et de oontr8le du ysEtbae de reoouvrYeent
des ootts des services de saant mis en oeuvr au sein de llhtpitall
- ddfiit lea conditions et oriteres daaddnsion de certals malades
& 1*indigence, confo2u6ment aux principait eriteres nsationa  retenus,
- delibere sur les projets 4e travaux, de grosses r6parations, d'am6-
lioration et d extension des b&timents, de renouvellement du mat4riel
- statue our lea propositions d'engagement de certaines oategories de
personnels.
Le Conseil d4AAmnirxatration delibere en outre our :
- lea programmes d'aotivit4s de 14tablissement ;
- le rapport annule dlaotivitU prdsent4 Far le Direoteur I
- le r6glement interieur de 114tablissement q
II domne son avis sur I orga satior, g4nCrale de l4tablissement et sur
lea questions qui lui sont sovmises psr l. Mtnistre de 1a Sat4 Publique, par
l Prdsident du Conseil d'AW-Jistration ou per le IDreoteur.
rticle 19.. Le Consell dlAdministration no peut alidnor les bie-.3
immeubL.s de l1dtablissement oau aocepter des dons at legs grov6a d4affwtnato.n.
speiaele sans Itapyrobation de ltautorit4 de tuteIle.
SICTION  IIT  s PONCTIORNT
Article 20.-  Le Conseil dtAAlzieitration so r6unit en session ordirair;,
trois (3) fois par au. II.,, peut se rdunir extraordirairement & la denande d_
Dlreoteur de ldtablissement ou de 1B maJoritd des 2/3 de see membres, le
Consell delibere valsblement d&s quo Ia. mjorit4 des 2/3 de ses embres eat
presente. La vol. du prdsident est prpo       te en as d  portage de voix.
Article 21.- Le Conseil dtAdministmation 61it pour deux men son vice-
pr6sident. En oas dlemEpehement Ou dtabsence du pr6sdAent, le wvoe-prdsiIent 'e
remplawe. En cas dtabsence du Pr4sident et du Vloo-prdsidentt Ia presidence
revient au plus ancien des membres pr6sents et, & eaniennoet4 4gale  au plus .t.4.
.. ./...



- 72 -
ANNEX 7c
Page 7 of 11
Le viao-pr4sident est r6dlgible.
Lee membres 6lug par lee conseils zwu2ipaux et pW6fectormuz ouvent le
sort de oes assembldes quant A 3* duree de leur mandat.
Artiole 22.-  Lee ddlibdratione sont oonstat6ee  per des proees-verbaux
qul oomportent en ann.xe la liste des mcmbres prdsents. Les proobs-verbaux sont
sigaes par le ptreident et le Direoteur et tranamls au Ministre de la 8snte
Publlque dane le mois qui suit leur approbation.
Article 23.- Lee d4libdrations du Coneeil soat ex6autilme uinze Jours
arpes la tran=ission du F,o4a9-verbel au linistre de la Sant6 Publique a moins
quo eelui-ei n'y fasse opposition ou no fasse surseoir & leux applioation.
Toutefois lee d6lib4rationa portant mr. le budget, le ocmpte finanoler, leo
aoquieitions, lee alli6nations et 4obangew d'imeubles noe ant ex6outores.
qutaprbw approbation du Uinistre de la Sant4 Publique et du Miis tre de lEoono-
mie et des Pilanoes.
Article 24.-  Le JAlnstre de la Sant6 Publique pout par arrete prononcer
l.a disnolution du Conseil dfAd-Aiistration lorsqutl eotia  qutil ezeroe *5a
fonotioum dans un saws pr63udiolable & l'int6r8t g6ndral ou en mae de oarence
notoize. Ii doSt ttre dana co mae resonetitu4 dans un dMlai de 90 3ours.
Pendant eotte durdeo ens delegation de trois zmabres ddslgDe8 par le Ministre
de la Sautd Publiqus eat obarBge de l'sep6dtion des affalres oourantes.
ORA.PIIRE II     LES ORGASES CONSULTATI"P
Article 25.- I1 est cr66 au sein de chaque 6tabliessemnt boapitalier
uns ooadission madicals oonsultative, un ocoit4 d4tWgyd ee et de adouritd et un
ocit6 twehnique parltalre.
Con orgones coneultatifa sont appeles ohacun en ce qui le conoernse a
domner lour avio mum divers problices de 16tablissement. La compositiont le
fonOtieovnent ains1 quo les attributions de oes organes seront prdoisas dans
les rgiements Sntdrieurs des dtabliesemente.
.../...



-73-
ANNEX 7 c
Page 8 of 11
,(    .  UII.-.  La1. 'IT ; UT.
.,rticle 26,-   Chaque etzblissaaont eat g4rd par IuIn t%iroottur V yazt la
qUaL'io- itiO.. Ila. :i3tratour ales epitaux. I1 oat r,aist8 d'u: ou de plusiormo
Article 27.-   Le Directour eat norn  par arrt4 dau ?:nistre As la 3antd
Publique sur rroposition du Direotour GUn,ral de ia 3sntd Publique.
Le Direotpur eat responsable de ltexdoution des deoiuions du Consoil
d Adrdyistrntion. I1 oosserve et afinistre le patrinoine de lttablissestent
ot fait ei oons6quetee tous lee actes oonservatoires n6ceosaires. 1. veille au
bon tonotiotr.waent de 116t.blissement et en tize lorganisation. 11 revr6eente
1I'SUblia.sroent esn justice et da.n lee actes de la vie oivile. I1 est ordomniteur
des 1dpenses et des rooettes de lth8pital dans lee oonditiona flxee par le
ddoret n 09-1 P 1 du 1 er Ac4t 1989 portant rkletient gdn6ral our la oomptabilitU
publique.
I1 oxeroe son autorit6 sur Ilensenble du personnel de lthapital. Il
est responsable de lordre et de la discipline dans l'4tablissenent et ?'. oet
effet, pout faire appel & la forco publique.
Artiole 28,- le Directeur-adjoint est nommd par an4te du ULiDstre
de la Santd Publique et doit avoir la qualifloation 1 adir latrateur des htpitaux.
fL reoplace le Direoteur en oas d'absenoe.
0hAIUl.M3 IV  s LB P;lS0i'UZ
Article 29,_ Le personnel eat constitue de oelui affeoti de la
Pozation Tublisue et des agents reorutes direotement par l16tablissewent publi.
Article 30,-  Lee dl6tents permanents de la rdi4muration du per-o=.el
affeot6s de la ?onction PubUque, (salaire de base et suj6tion cadre) Boat
soup:ort6s par le budget de 1L'tat.
Artiole 31.-  Le recrutement direct du personnel par l'dtabUseoet
et sa r6munration sont faits selon les r6gles en v1guour dans la Ponotion
PubU4que.
,rticle 32.-  Le rd4ime des indewnxt6a pour tout le persoalel east
4tabli par 1'6tablissement et soumis & 3.approbetion du "dniastre de la ,nt6
Publique et du :.iniatre de l'Eoonomie et des Pinanoes.
.. ./...



- 74                                    ANNEX 7c
Page 9 of II
Atrticle 33.- Le statut gdn6ral et lea statuts particuliers de la Ponction
Publique, obacun dans son donaine, s'appliqueent & tout le personnel de lt4ta-
blisse,aent.
T I T B B II
LE RMIGM P SIJiCIE
Article 34.- La gestion comptable et fimanoizer de lt4tablissement
eat aasurde Odnforamnent aux dispositions du deoret n 89-121 portant rbglement
gtu4ral eur la oonptab1it4 publique.
Artiole 35.- Ltagent comptable de lt4tablisseemnt eat nom4 par arr8te
du ?iintistre de ltEconomie et des Finances.
Article 36.-  Lt6tablissement eat soumis au oontr8le fiusnaier de :.'
ltEtat. Ce eontr8le eat assurd par un oontroleur fizanoier dont lea attributions
sont d4fioies per arrit4 du Ministre de l'Boonomie et dee Pinanoes.
Article 37.-  Les reeettes de l16tablisomont ocmprennent notamment t
- les subventions de l'Rtatj des autres oolleotivit4e publiques ou des
personnes priv6es ;
_-.'e r4wn4xations des services rondus I
- lea reven  des biens, fonds et valeurs I
- lee dons et legs faits au profit de lt6tablissement I
les produits de l1ali6natiom des biens, fonda et valeurs;
le prodult de ventes des publleations;
lee empnimts.
Artiole 38.- Les d4penaos de l'4tablissement comprennent lee frais de
fazotioxcnement et d:equipoment et, dtuns manibre g4n6rale, toutes oelles qik
sont ndoessaires a ltactivit* de l'4tablissement.
En oe qui oonoerne les C.H.,U lee obarges suvantes sont support4eo
par le budget de ltUniversite s
- ltensmble des d6penses dtentretien des bgtiments & usage universitaire et
dtaohats de mobilier ou de materiel destin6s aux besoins de ltenaeignement, 
lezolusion de toute utilisation & des fins hospita4res I
.../...



- 75 -
ANNEX 7C
Page 10 of 11
- lee d4penaes de tonotionnement aff4rentes auz aotivitds diansalpu.snt t
de rebhrohoe dans le oa  o  Glles  pouvnt Otre d6termzxzaes Ilswle  at. CeC
d4penses sout, soit M4ees direotemaet pera 1 Pabult4 de O4deouo  solt rem-
bouwsees par onle . lth8pl.tl ou linstitut lnt4ress6 I
- lea d4penaes autres quo celles prbvues aux doux alindas pr6o6dents, relatives
aus aotivlt6s dtonseignement au de reohezobe I
- lee dommaes de toute nature oaua6s a=u h8pitaus ou instItuts, A lour
personni,l aux nalades et & lours visiteurs, soit par lea dtudilants & l1oooasion
do lours stages on milieu bospitler, solt par touts pereazon participant &
Iso olont post-universitaire orgaAlsa sous la responsabllit6 de la
Paoult4.
AtUn lo*. Les marohes sont pass6u et ezcut6s daas los fomes et
eonditions presorites pour les rnroh6s de 182tat.
Artle 40._  Leonamt qaul pren  l1appealtlon de hebf des services
4oonnmiques, ost no6Z4 pmzl leo  adUisrateurs bospitlsera par arrt  du
MinIstre de 31 8ant6 PubW4que.
n  tiont is comptab4i4t6 mutire confonrmdmot & lt1nstructiou
e 54ANB du 06 Avril 1990 portsnt rbglsmnt our 2a comptabIlit6 gainrule des
uti,es. 3no exoe sws fonotions saus le contrxle au Directeur et du Conseil
d'A      ton
Artigle 41._   rnD  r4gie d8e recettes et des d6penses est cr"U  et son
SonetiLo   ent tabli dens lea condititns pi6vues per lo Adoret nP 89-12 du
Ier AoUt 1989 porbent rbgleUont gEnEral smm la comptabilUtE pubique.
*../...



-76-                              ANNEX 7c
Page 11 of 11
T  I    RE    Z
LBS DIS?O8ITIONS DIVERS5
Article 42._    Un r6glement int6rieur pris par le Cousell dtAdminis-
tratioU et appouve par le MiMistre de la Sant6 Piublique et le MUistre de
lianuumie et des Pinanoea pr6oiera i'torganesation et lea modalites de
fonotioramment des 4tabLssemeutso
A?tio3* 43,p  Xles 4tablissements hospitaliers piv4es sont exolus du
ohaup ftapplUoation du preeent d6oret.
Artolel 44.- Toutes dispositions ant6rieures contrairee au prdsent
dwet amnt abrog6es, notwnment le d6oret n 58-99 du 10 Ddoembre 1958 portar.t
or4ation de 0o.zilone Admrti'ratives des ftablissements hospitaliers du
Togot 2. art.o2ee 4, 5, 69 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14 et 15 du deoret ne 77-
206 du 18 Novembre 1971 portant o      tion du Centre Hospitalier Univer-
itar de lIa et Ules articles 5, 6, 7, 8e  9,  10, 11  12,  14,  15
et 16 du deoret if 87-47/  f du 14 Mii 1987 portant ordation du Centre Hospi-
taler Uneiv  hro-Campue.
AZgol.e 45.-   le Ministre de La Sant4 Publique et le mfinistro de
2'IEoojuie et des Pmnanoes sont obarge obao2m en 0e qui le concerne, de
lez4oution flu p4sent deoret qul sera pubIle au Jourval Officiel de la
R4publUque Dogolaie./-
Pour Amp.ation               E              le 26 D6eembre 1990
LE VMS=  MI8MO A LA          'i ff  i
nAMuGj
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MD: Li



-77-                                       A^,.\   8
_      :                                   _                                   _ . _ _ . _ ...Page 1 of 2
-- _ ....
PCEMMIT                 CMD*_3 X   **  ,r E (:MaRDINA.=::
*   '  v,Z;'S  S    :ztC:S 1.12VT1.113
DE ';k %   :ECT 1N MM.OAL  CS :A SANTZ *?ZL:;EU
L.z mIISS73E 3S LA SJJ4& ?LPUQUE
'1 .J .       :      .c;.... en ses  :'c2es 20 aO Zt
Vu 1* ;6crst  d.u ?           ! :l'a.4a :982 t'zant  .oo pr- nci;os   ;*n.c1t.z .e
V'orgmisaton des Daipartmeon:s :1l:ftstftioes
VU   le   Dc-ee   n  _______ /PR   du   ..............*........ ;owan
otgsnsa:.oan du 4istfte de -'a, Sanw6 .5bilquo.
As A R r  . t:
ART:CLS isr.- :. est c.** i la O%rec:ton Cindral. do l   an:6 ?:-
Coath de Coordination des acztvit:o  de sea dittIients services cen.t-ux.
-AMCLS Z.- Co Coml:6 se 3    oee co=  seut :
- Diretour Uiniral do la Sent6 Pb1que  .......................
-   -'-    dde  Etablissuaents des Saias ..... .................
-    -w-     des Sons do Sant:  ?ra:es ......         ................  - -
-   - -   'e  :a ?Lan?.ca::;i et de La  oration ..............   -
- DS:eteur doe L'Admi:astrton et des   naces ...............- -
-   -' -   des  ?ha'mac:.es, .aco-stor res et Z4ui;ements Tech.niques  -
- Lee Direc:urs d  Divisions soelo  :'ori:o du Jour des r?tuions.
AR'.:C:S ,'. La Coui:d ez: :acrg6 .e:
- coordonner,  Gviser e*' ;-armonlssr :'6*  stra:6ges op6raiontil.  s :3s
objectits do ol'tique sectorleieo do .a sor.t%,
-  tudier ea  a:reter :s ;:39   osi::  ds do f.-ma:.cn. et do ::cte:
;orsonne.l A soumer::e ;oUr 2  r: oatior. au :Mialstze de  .a Santi ?..:  a  -
te.nan: =-Pte des ;esoins it ;mrtc.69* se-s lifr4rents services.



ANNEX 8
- 78 -                                 Page 2 of 2
si6nnelles  ..... ................................  ,,,tre
- lo Repr6sentant du Ministere de I'Education   tamale.             _
- lo Prcsident de l'Ordro dos M4decins, Pharm.cions,
Chirurgions-Oontistes et M4decins V6tdrinaires .........
Le  SecrEtariat  du  Comitd sera vssurE  par  lo  Directeur  do  La
Planification et do la Formation du Ministero de la Santd Publique.
ARTICLE 3 : Lo Comite est chargE do :
- assurer lo suivi des activitds du programnm  "S'ntd et Population"
_ dvaluer pdriodiquement et et analyser le. rEsultata dos diffErents
programmes ;
- proposer des mosuros tin d'amliorer Loe rswitat ;
- coordonner les aides oxtEriouues on vue de lours affectatians et uti-
lisations rationnrlles ;
- soumettre des rapports trziustriels d'activits aux buillours de
fonds, lee informor du dEroulement does progrwmmes et des problbmes
Eventuols.
ARTICLE 4 : Lo Comitd Technique do Coordination et do Suivi (CTCS) so riunit au
mains une fois par trimestre sur convocation de son PrEsident. Ii pout so
r unic on sEanco extraordinaire 6 1 deomund des deux tier di soe mombres.
11 pout     faire appol & toutes los compEtences susceptibles ~e
l'aidor dens l'mccomplissoment de sa mission.
ARTICLE S : Lo prEsent arrdtE sera enrEgistrd, publid et communiqud partout :i
booin sers.
Lamd, lo
LE MNIISTRE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE
A. AGSETRA



- 79 -                                          A?ThEX 9
4 Gatso                                                                   TIM0191 * 9 TR8A1'  IM 'w., inw J0A11111-M
_rsu *,$ ~~~OP"t ke "  r atII
---A-   -(Iw4g_ -II                             s         -
twe   t~si       1966   to"       sto"   son    1ow    It"   t4o         son
A. bw,ee OG     & Ws.   4.6                      461.5  46-.4      410.0 UO.   si.s  061.4  m.4           "Y'a
1. Ih#gwinl  (Poe            1.9   18.0        14.7  610.0      18.4  86.*  dOSS  48.4  471.5          bos.I
1. b.._eW   8wIg.S           U1.1  18.-        186.9   1.8      U11.8  i0s.$  174.8  17".1  16.9    U18.0
8. Iw6. eI @j. a on             1.4  U47.7        841.6  5.        81111.1  4.   6.0  M7.   749.0         7.
1. mw*.tmd.e (PM             81.0  144.4       541.7  0841.7     11.0  413.7  4*1.   471.8  8110.6     11.8
2. Nm4eat 8leva               172.4  106.0     197.9  lA.?      =106.9  121.1  11.8  114.7  1116.-     244.6
C. M   _  b 1is                .U.4 -1.01         -0.1  .8        -14.0 -..4  -6.2  .46.6  -91.6         .11.
0. Nt ftsoor Ziwm               -1.7.7  -0.#    -4.4  -14.   -M.8  .49.1  -46.0                          -46.1
1. r"o  nomt                   0.4   0.4        24.   20.4        9.1   #6.6   so.*   20.0   U-41      #.0
(01/ V.49ev.' ft1ot*an.e)    0.8   0.?         1.0   1.8        1.7   2.0   2.4    8.4    8.7          8.7
1. fPats P.sa.t               70.9  77.n        11.8  18.0       77.8   7.0  10.7 7n.81  78.1            1.2
(0/. Zath ee Psga.t.)       48.1  44.1        80.0   8.1       40.1   40.2  87.9   86.6   W.*         81.6
IL M" C c.at t _g.dg..           47.4  10.2        7.7   ".1        6.0  60.1  *1.5   64.5   ".0          66.0
r. Cunt A      t hi..          -186.8 -213.1      40.1  41.4       -4.5  -1.7  -78.1  -74.8  -78.4       .77.0
0. Lg-Tem Caitol W1im            48.6  -18.1      45.0  48.4        41.7  48.9  41.8  U1.    64.1,         1.6
1. Di'.g  PtI. Zumv..tmt      19.6   11.8       11.4   *.4        7.1   11.2  14.2   11.0  18.1         14.8
S. OffIcl1 Capitol 0.p.44     16.5  21.7        17.5   1.0       42.1   8.4   40.0   8.1   40.3         46.8
8. M" LT   0J0 Laee           4.5  -1.2         1.1  -1.0       -14.9  -.17.5  -4.     8.6    1.6       88.8
*. Olsbuoamt                 6.4   10.9     111.1   0.6       47.0  12.4   8.8  71.1  11.6           s9.8
b. 3      s,                11.6  104.1      96.0   6115.8     66.1   o.9   60.4   70.5  71.0        86.6
4. IW_. Lit WdMM (O")          0.0   0.0         0.0  84.6        0.8   14.    4.6   -0.   -0.0        -0.8
:1. Tetel 0Uic ste  to")         80.0   ".4        1.9  -16.1        7.1   10.1   10.3  10.1   10.2        6.6
1. shoot..beo  *rom 1 sle.    10.0  64.s         1.  -18.1        7.1   2 0.2 1        0.1  10.3        6.6
La" Up"to ow bK *4. Sw1 a 00as69/0



-80 -                                  ANNEX lO
Page 1 of 4
STRUCTURE D'UN CENTRE MEDICO-SOCILU   C.M.S.
,..._.j. _--- Y-_- ----
1  -.a2. ^, 1' j: :     tc   pour mm1ades
1 - '*a" u*~ s:        ..._ :: 9            :.,_utito  
1 - _'iu_'I. 44.<n
1 - i.:w1iz 4{-: % (&..v;...1J  Z- ;tO 'tt   ._*A4i
1-   :.4-<; 4.;.  .  
1 - ;z;,Xi.U ~uv  :. <:&,      I vl-rort
1 -       (14  ki   Q;I. ultutunw  PMI (jri.n&&utluu, 1LOLu'L'JJ.J%i&...
1 _  . .         v; i ;. u.u.is.AI u:; L pu.itu .;v;.:m.
1  - 4u:.LJu du ~ &i  pour fenwums   icuntj
1Q    -  }.        W;...l
1 - tU11u w.1' ;~L..sL ';-i.'cLxu
-   iE15;s' Ltc..P......T i.L1:itlI ..... 
m  10   l.itoz  pour 1lUU zmul.L.uu
-  15   litu   pour sccouch4qu.
40)   -   LOG_iA T IU, iw:A'I.)t4flUL   ml  CIS
50)   -   1A~~.:*IS"  uiN L    A;-~M



-81-                               ANNEX 1 0
Page 2 of 4
..  :  -   ..
Assistant    iC ic-         -
2   :nr.fr-i-rs  v_-'at
' Sag,-TOe--
1   Laborantin A ttat
I   Assistart A -.ygi4.n
3   I-firmi@ers  ;uxt2lia_res
2   Accouc.euses Auxi-iajres
2   Vanoeuvres
nlSP;NSAtRES a
_  I  Infirmter d'Etat (Chef de Fcste)
-  I   anfir3iOr  AuxiliSaire
-  2  Aceiolcteuses Auxi'l4t.-reS
-   1  ManOeuvre



-82-                              ANNEX 10
*Ps. 3 of 4
phARTITION  DES LITS DAMS LES DIFFERENTS
INFRASTUCTURJS SANITAlREts
Catcgories
-Infrestructures           HKpttal |
Services ou             C.H.R.        de         C.MS.  Dispensaire
Uniees    ~ ~ --                 Prtecture
M#dectne G6n6reIe-        35-50    20 -30-         10 t
Chirurgie GfnErale        35-50    20-30            _
Gyn6co-Obst6trique/
Maternlte - P.M.4         35-50    20-30           to           4
P6diatri*                 20525    20               _
Contagious                10-25      -                           -
0. R. L.               j 3           -                
Stomatologie               3                 j      -
Ophtalmologie              3
Sall e do " misen          6
obsorvation
SOTAL                   150-200    80-100         20             6
* CHU non compris
** Y compris Io Contagieux



- 83-                         ANNEX 10
EQUIPS-IYE O"JN OISPENSAIRE
i-~~~~~~~ ___-kl '
fi=[=-.- d-Etat            i1                      1
Inf.rm__                            I Auxiliai-   C  10
i   ~Accoucheuses .Auxil iaires                       2   1
A Cisat dg ozle                               I 
T                                  A T A L  | 2 |
Lo dz spensalre on sers dot- s-lon -limprtarco de la
PoIt atie  dusservie.



- 84 -
ANNEX llb
Page l of 2
PRESIDENCE  OE  LA  REPU8LIOUE                         REPU8LIQUE  TOCOLAISE
-----------                            Union-Pelx-SoildaritO
MINISTERE OE. LA SANTE PUSLIQUE
OECRET  NO 90-92            /PR
AUTORISANT LES FORMATIONS SANITAIRES
PUSLIQUES A UTILISER LES RECETTES PRO_
VENANT  OES  PRESTATIONS  OE   SOtNS
LE  PRESIOENT  DE  L.A  REPU6LIQUE
Sur rapport conjoint du Ministre de la Santd Publiques du Mfnistre
do I'Economie et des Finances et du Ministre do l'Industrie et dos Socld-
tde d'Etat i
Vu la Constitution, notamment en ses articles 15 et 20
Vu la loi  n'60-25 du 2 AoOt 1960 portant argenisation des dtablisse-
ments hoespitalUers de la Rdpublique Thgolaise t
Vu l Decret nO82-137 du 11 Mai 1982 ?ixant lee principes gdndruux
d'organisation d_s D4partements Ministdriols ;
Vu le DdEcrt n*90-158/PR portant organisation du ftnistbre de li
Sante Publique
Uu le Odcret n82-117 du 30 3uin 1982 portant application des Lots
Organiques relative aux SocAtdes d'Etats Etablissements Public* & carectb-
re dconomique at SociEtd E   conomie mixte I p
Vu le Odcret n89-121 du l1r/08/89 portent r:glemsnt gdneral our la
comptabillt4 publique S
Uu le Odcret n086-109 du 5 3uin 1986 portant organisation du Minis-
tere de l'EconomLe et des Finances I
Vu -'_ Odzra  o29C-8o au 13 Fevrior 1990 portant restructurotion  du
Gouvernament ;
LE  CONSEIL OES MINISTRES ENTENOU, 
.../1...



-                            - 85-                                  ANNEX llb
Page 2 of 2
u E C R E T E I
Article  1ar. Los formatlons sanitaires publiques sont *utorisdes 6 utAliJso
lag recettes provinant des prastatiolS de soins pour lour r4approvisionwmwent
an medicamonts sscentiols et pour couwrir las principal.s dOpenses do tonction-
nomento
Article  2.- Quatre vingts pour cant de cas recettes serviront pour le rdappro-
visionnement cn m Idicamnmts assontiels et vingt pour cant pour les ddponsas do
fonctionn3ment.
Article  3._ La gestion de ces recattes sera confide aux orgenes do g_stion
des formations sanitaires.
Articke 4._. Los mddicaments vieds & l'article l8r sont ceux qui figurent sur
los listes n^tionals publides par   arrdtd du Ministre de la SantE Publique,
Article  S.-  Las modalitds d'applicaticn du prEsent ddcrot qui tindront
compto des structures existantos de TOGOPHARMA, seront d4finies per Arriti
Intorministdrial du Ministre de la Santd Publiques du Ministre de l'Economie
at des Finances et du Ministre ds l'Industria at des Societas d'Etat.
Article 6.- La Ministt3 de he Santd Publique, la Ministre da h'EconomiL :t
dos Finances et le Ministre Ga l'Industria at des Socistds d'Etat sont char-
ges chacun en co qui le concerns, de ltexdcution du present ddcret qui sera
publ0i au Oournal Offieisl do la Rdpublique Togolaiso./-
'crI..<w,z.,le 26 Dicembre 1990
POUR  AMPLIATION          I                  .:
LE MINISTRE DELEGUE A LA                         G NASSING8E  EYAOEM
PRESIDENCE OE La REPUBLIQUE. .'st
Chnnncm AME]BOH



- 86 -                           ANNEX leC
NINIUSZR  DE LA SANTE PUILIQUE                           SEPUBLIQUZ TOGOLAISE
------- - ---                                   UnAon - Palx- Solidarit4
UZNISTERS DE L *ICONOMIS ST DES FINANCES                             Pagie 1 of 4
AUWSS  INTI3MIMZEIIL NO 01 / 91 /iVSPiVz
DOITAIT CRafOW  ATT3XDUTI00 UT VQ-     CHNNT
ass coMaTzs  0o  GESbO   DfS CUiTIES  W1CO-
SOCUM  ST DISPENSAI3S
Le Minhstre de la SantU Publique,
Lo Mialstre d  I 'Economle ot des Finances.
Vu la Constitution, notamment on son article 21 1
Vu  o0 D0cret nS02-137 du 11 Mal 1982 flxant lea principes g6n6raux
dlor8anusation des D6partements Minist6riels ;
Vu le D6crot na90-158/PR  du 2 Octobre 1990 portant organisatlon et
attribution du Minuatere de la Santa Publique I
Vu l  Dicret n 90-1S9/PR  du 2 Octobre 1990 portant organlsation des
Services do la Direction Cenmrale do la SantE Publique ;
Vu le Ddcrot n'86-109 du S Juln 1986 portant organisation et attribution
du Ministor. do 1 Economi et des Finances i
V1 le D4cret n 90-192 du 26 o6c. 1990 portant autorisatlon des formations
snitalres & utillser les recottes provenant dOs prestations de solis.
Vu le DOcret n 90-I8 du 15 F4vrier 1990 portant restructuratlon du
Gouvernment t
A R R E T E N T 
kticle Ior.- I1 ot er46 au niveau de chaque centre m6dico-social et dispen-
saire ua CoultE de Gestion Comptable et Financl6re placo sous 1autorlte
du Minist6r, do la S&ntE Publique
-C   O NF~ZT~  DU COMTE 03 GeSTON
ArtLcle 2.- Le Comlto de Gestion est compose comme suit :
- Le Repr6sentant do I'Admlilstration locale  ............    PrEsident
- Lo Chef du Centre  ......................*.................  Mombre
- Le Repr6sontant local du Ministere des Affalres Sociales
at do la Condition Fominine ......   .....................



- 87 -                                ANNEX llc
Page 2 of 4
- La Ropr6sentant du Comit6 local do Dovoloppomont  ...........   - -
- Quatre (4) R.pr4sentuats do la populatton, dont doux
(2) Femmes, olus par la Communaut6                    .......
- Un (1) Enseignant do la locallte ...........................  ...
Article 3.-  Le Comite do Gestion ost noamm  pour cinq ars par to Directour
R4gional   do la Sant6.
Le  mandat des  membres olus  par  la  population. est renouvelable
tous lee cinq ans. Colul des agents de 1'Etat, dtpend de lours Administrations
de tutelle.
Le comit6 ellt on son sein m
- Un tr6sorier, parml les reprtsentants de la communaut6
- Un Vice-Predsdent qul priside leas runions en cas d'absence du
President
- Trols Commissaires aux comptes charg6s du contr8lo  reguller de
la gestion.
Article 4.-   Le Ministre de la Sant6 Publique, sur rapport du Directeur
REglonal de la Sant6, pout dissoudro Io comit lorsqu'lil s'avere quo co
dernrer exerce ses prErogatives dans un soes prEjudiciable A l'intert genEral,
ou en cas de carence notoire.
Un comite provisoire de trots membros dEsigA par Ie Directour Reglonal
do la Sant. oexp6dlo los affalres courantes, jusqua& la formation, dans
un delal de 45 jours, d'un nouveau comit6.
Articlo 5.- Le comite do gostion assure s
1'- La gestion des stocks de medicamonts et des recettes provenant
de lour cession.
.. .1...



-88 -                              ANNEX llc
Page 3 of 4
2*- La r4approvisiotnnment do Ia formation sanitAlre on mEdlcaments
essentials, fourniture  m6dico-chlrurglcalos et produits de laboratolres aupras
de la pharmaclo rogionalo d'approvisionnomont.
-. fixe, dans les lmltes proscritee conjointemont par lea Ministres
de la Sant6 Publique et do l'Economle et des Pinances, le montant des tarifs
des prestations de solna.
- ddfinlt los conditions et crit6res d'admission do certais malades
& 1'indigence conform6ment aux principaux crlteres nationaux retenue.
- otudie leas projets de reparation, d'entretion et do renouvellement
du matrinil
- examine et adopt. le budget, prepare et soumis par le chef de la
formation sanitaire
- examine et a,dopte les comptes de la formation.
1OI4CTXONN3M3
Article 6.-  Le Comit6 so reunit au moins une fols par trimostre. I1 pout
as r6unir on session extraordinalre sur convocation de son presldent ou
a la demand. d'au momns deux tiers des mnembres.
Article 7,-  La r6gi. des rocettes est assur6e par un agent de la formation
sanitaire, pour co qui concerno le C.M.S. et le dispensalre.
Artcle 8.-   Toute reeotte dont le montant ost superiour & lO0. 000 francs
dolt faire i'objet d'un dep8t dans un compte bancalre ou postal.
Les recettes dont le montant est Inferleur & colui sus-mentio=nn seront
conservies dans un coffrot m6tallique ferme   cla .
Article 9. -   Les commtissaires aux comptes assuroront un contr81e mensuel
do la gestion comptable et financlere des fonds et des stocks do m6dicaments.
.. .1...



- 89 -
ANNEX lIc
Page 4 of  4
Articlo 10.- Los *odalUt6a d'application du pr4soat arr#t6 serout d6fllgs
et pr6clsaes dana to rglolment int6rleur dos formations saaltaires.
Article  11.-   Los Directours Roglonaux et PrOfectoraux  de Ia Sant6 soat
chargEs do 1' x6cutlou du prEsent arrOt6 qul sera publiE au Jourual Officiel
de la REpublique Togolalso./-
LOME  I.          3 JAN. 1991
LE WUNISTRE DE L ECONOMIB                LE NINISTRE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE
ST DES FINANCES
.una~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
AahAGB3Tl.-
CAB/PR/pour C.R ............. ..I1
M.S.P..                     ..... S
M. E.  F ....              .... 2
TOUS ?aNISTERES ............... 16
J.GO.R.T ... ........  ......    2
D.G.S.P ..... oo...*.* ..       2



TOGO: POPULATION AM WALTN SECTOR AMATIBTM PROJCT
cOMzroI    OF cosr OF PRIORITY ROORM: 1381-1*4
(IN MILION OF aME TCFOA)
___  _   _    ______________-__-__  -- _--------------- _--- - --- -   -    _______ -___ ----------- _
P a    4 a AS               TOTAL  COST OwESTN S 
MII la  CFA     X    Ml IItos cFA    X    MlUII i.  CFA    s
(1)  SUoaL mm                            t1 20       9.1         "1       0.2       10 6*9    69.2
(2)  OUFILIATtIIO UISFRASIuCTUS          7 a10      20.3       4 789      43.8       2 Tt      16.$
(3) EB_W AL SANITATION                   a UO       11.7       2 607      23.9        tJ3      4*.
(4) SUB-TAL: (1)2(2).(1)                22 280      71.1       0 077      71.9      14 Its     79.0
(6) OMEFIROMMS (iQldiu g                 0 0J       22.9       2 62       26.1       a I"      21.0
1d_Spmw*t    t.le  end
do"te li"Iom)
(0) TAL                                 2 037    100.0        10 929    100.0       17 980    100.0
_-- __ __ _ __ _   ------                        ---------------------------



W ~  ~~~~~~ o91 -
'' L
i . i-S' g II .
3lll~  whS
MMX-~ iiWiFSlj
- HE                ..-
.i  a  f. i, 
. W~



- 92 -                            ANNEX 13 (b)
|DIRECTION REGIONALE DE LA SANTE 
REGIONAL DE
LA SANTE
Service Rdgional    Service Regional       Service Re'gional   Sce. Reg. des Etabli-
de l'Administra-    des Statistiques       des Pharmacies       ssements Sanitaires
tion et des         de la Recherche        et des Labora-       et de la SanteJ Commu-
Finances             et de la Proara-      toires               nautaires
Bureau du            Bureau des             Pharmacie          Bureau de la Super-
Personnel           Etudes et de la          R&gionale         vlsion des Etabli-
Recherche                                ssements de Soins
Bureau de la       Bureau des              Bureau des           Bureau de la
Gestion             Statistiques           Laboratoires         Sante Commu-
Financiere         _                      ____nautaire
Bureau de la          Bureau de la                           1
Documentation       Recherche en            Bureau de
Medicine Tradi-]        1'I.E.C       j
Itionnelle            __1
Bureau de la   1                           Bureau de
Planification dq                           l'Hygiene des
la coordination                            Collectivite"s
Bureau de Sante
Scolaire
P Bureau dert
V lImmunisation 
|DIRECTION REFECTORALE DE LA SANTE
S-rvc  de  Stati-              e  es
Service de     1 SriedsSai-               rice de        | Service d'Etablissements
l'Administration|  tiques et de la  | harmacies et   || et de la Santee
!          ~~~~Itecherche et de la |   es-laboratoiresI   Cowwunautaires
Programr.ttion         



- 93 -
Annex 14
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
POPULATION AND HEALTH SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY CREDIT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Project Identification                            February 1988
(b)   Pre-Appraisal Mission                             January 1989
(c)   Bank Appraisal Mission                            June 1990
(d)   Negotiations                                      January 1991
(e)   Board Presentation                                February 26, 1991
(f)   Planned Effectiveness                             May 1991
S^ction II: Special Bank Implementation Action
A project launch workshop is under preparation to ensure timely
start-up of the program. Key program managers will receive special
training during pre-effectiveness period to strengthen their management
skills. On-going supervision will be provided by the staff of the
Resident mission and by regular supervision missions from headquarters.
In addition to regular supervision missions, an annual review and
programming workshop will be organized to assess progress in
implementing measures in the Action Plan, evaluate program. Technical
Assistance support in procurement will be provided during the critical
start-up phase to train responsible staff and accelerate procurement.
Performance and prepare implementation schedules and intermediate
monitoring indicators for activities to be carried out during the coming
year. The newly created CTCS has principal supervision responsibility
for supervision and monitoring of the Program and would review these
intermediate performance indicators quarterly and keep IDA informed of
progress and difficulties needing joint action by governments and the
Bank.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)   For Credit Effectiveness (expected in May 1991), Government would
have:
1.     established financial management and accounting
system in the MSP satisfactory to IDA. (#7)
2.     provided evidence that budgetary allocations
satisfactory to IDA have been made in the 1991
budget for the health sector.



- 94 -
Annex 14
Page 2 of 3
3.     provided evidence satisfactory to IDA that all staff
redeployed in the five Regional Directorates of MSP have
been reassigned and taken up their functions. (#4, 11)
(b)   For 2nd Tranche Release (tentatively foreseen for April. 1992),
Government would have:
1.    put in place a macro economic framework consistent with the
objectives of the Sector Adjustment Program.
2.   reached an agreement with IDA on: (i) the level of funds to
be allocated to the various services in the health sector in
the 1992 budget; and (ii) the sectoral investment proposals
to be included in the PIP for 1992-1994; and (b) (i)
expenditures actually incurred for the health sector during
the execution of the 1991 budget meet targets initially
agreed upon with IDA; and (ii) investment proposals carried
out in the health sector during 1991 were consistent with
those included in the PIP for 1991-1993. (#7, 8, 9)
3.   achieved substantial progress in the reorganization and
strengthening of MSP. (#3, 4, 5)
4.    achieved satisfactory progress in the execution of the
Action Plan for improving access to family planning services
and Primary Health Care. (112, 14, 15)
5.    established an appropriate system for urocurement and
distribution of essential drugs, including adequate
mechanisms for cost recovery
(c)   For 3rd Tranche Release (foreseen for April. 1993). Government
would have:
1.    put in place a macro-economic framework consistent with the
objectives of the Sector Adjustment Program.
2.    reached an agreement with IDA on: (i) the level of funds to
be allocated to various services in the health sector in the
1993 budget; and (ii) the sectoral investment proposals to
be included in PIP for 1993-1995; and (b) (i) expenditures
actually incurred for the health sector during the execution
of the 1992 budget meet targets initially agreed upon with
IDA; and (ii) investment proposals carried out in the health
sector during 1992 were consistent with those included in
the PIP for 1992-1994. (#7, 8, 9)
3.    achieved satisfactory progress in the execution of the
training program for MSP staff. (#17)



- 95 -
(d)   For 4th Tranche Release (foreseen for ARril. 1994), Government
would haves
Annex 14
Page 3 of 3
1.    put in place a macro-economic framework consistent with the
objectives of the Sector Adjustment Program.
2.    (a) reached agreement with IDA ont (i) the level of funds to
be allocated to various services in the health sector in the
1994 budget; and (ii) sectoral investment proposals to be
included in the PIP for 1994-1996; and (b) (i) expenditures
actually incurred for the health sector during the execution
of the 1993 budget meet targets initially agreed upon with
IDA; and (ii) investment proposals carried out in the health
sector during 1993 are consistent with those included in the
PIP for 1993-1995. (#7, 8)
* (measures in parenthesis indicate policy measure to be
monitored)
Section IV: Program Actions
An annual review of past and projected budgetary expenditures on
population and health services would be conducted jointly by the IDA and
the government to ensure that both the levels and composition of
budgetary allocations are consistent with Program norms. The review
will examine Governments' spending levels in the sector for the past
year and proposed budgetary allocation for the coming year to ensure
they meet targets set in Governments's Sector Policy. The review will
examine adequacy of funding for non-wage operating costs to ensure
minimum expenses for essential drugs, logistic costs, operating
equipment costs and minimum staffing norms are respected at the Primary
Health Care and referral levels.
Budgetary targets for funding of essential drug supplies for each ,ear.
Minimum budgets for essential drugs       2.1 billion CFAP (US$ 7.5 mill)
Annual Allocation by facility:
-     Dispensary                          0.9 million CFAP (USS 3,214)
-     'Centre Medico-Social'              7.1 million CFAP (US$ 25,357)
-     'Hopital de Prefecture,             47.0 million CFAF (US$ 167,857)
-     Centre Regional Hospitalier"        71.0 million CPA? (US$ 253,571)



T 0 C O
POPULATION AND  HEALTH SECT(3 ADJUSTMENT OPEIATION
MAIhER OF HEALMT FACILITIES TO BE REHAILITATED OR RECONSTRUCTURED BY REGION
_________    -    ---------------------- _- _---  -  - -  - -  --  - - - -   - -  -- -  - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - --------------------__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
RECION       R"iosel Oirectorate    Dispetworaio                     Total     Contre iMdicaus Socieux   Total    Pr.foctoral Hospitals
Coaostruction        Robo  I.  Roconst.                        Rhab; I.  Reconst.                            R*quepmgnt
_________ --   ___ __ _____________-__-__- __---- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -  - -  - -  - - -  - -  - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - - -----_-_____________________________
MARITIME                  1                 34            22            61               9         2                it                  4
PLATU                     1                 87            19            68               6         1                 6                  4
CENTAL                    1                 11            11            22               4         1                 6                   2
KCARA                     1                 32                          3s                                           6                   S 6
SAVANES                   1                 17             6            23               3                           3                   1
-----                         ------------------------      -----------------------------------
&                              64                                       4                30                  1X



- 97 -
ANNEX 16
TOGO: POPVLATION AND HEALTH SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
COUNTRY INDICATORS
Population (1990 estimate)                                 3.6 milllon
Area (thousand of square kilometers)                      57
GDP (per Capita) (1988)                             US$ 370
Life expectancy at Birth (1988)                           53 years
Adult illiteracy rate (percent): female:                       72
: male  X                     59
Crude birth rate (per 1000 population)                    44
Crude death rate (per 1000 population)                    12.7
Average annual growth rate of population (percent)              3.1
Women of child bearing age as percent of total            44
population
Total fertility rate                                            6.7
Modern contraception use among married women of
child bearing age (percent)                             3
Births attended by trained health staff (percent)         23
Daily calorie supply per capita                        2207
Babies with low birth weight (percent)                    20
Infant mortality rate                                    94
Female school enrollment (percent) Primary                78
Secondary            12
Urban population (as percentage of total population)   25
Percentage of population in largest city (Lom6)           60
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)        476
Risk of dying by age Sex: female                         132
: male                             .142
Age structure of population (percent) 0-14                47.7
15-64            49.3



IBRD 22720
r ANFASO A 
2  *              @       F    F              9
Pndecture Hospitalse                               NGERI
G H A N A    th a Centers
t4r                               fw              KA NT Ed
CqiW ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~e
Lkm'te de NTt&tXtU
TOGO Bdaba)i                                         BENIN
POPULATION AND HEALTH                            ^t 
SECTOR ADJUSMENT PROGIRAMM  {                      - 
iotemndond~~~~~~         BR      *ndpru/
f        DCR4  lot57A~-qC7*    /  5
LYS4NME       FUXA7V         {        ''-*St)KODE 
rn U rWst Teadf HospXJ                              K A /
E  imiHU d'Etgat
Rego- Hoq*Ws                 TWas     0  
oe20 40 0   805 10 I0LE*
O   HzpW   e AvM
Nee  n SodalWfaeCWA                   slit?        ,
Pftil HeahtCleGt rComm
e    C.sshes*seZr   f     >w < a ~      ~    oveber199
NMI*W C                     T        
PfeW B t                      .       _tses
Link*e de le                         >  \
limiteudonal siuodO                       )
UkniftdltatI                        
t    w0    |    ~~~ATAPME
O   20  4ct  60  8tt  100 [LOMETERS    J        }
_1.                                    JRUE* ,                             1
0 ~     _        P AAXp ssoe    .r'o
Ad                 h   bww \
* Agalepe0lo
* B I             \            TSPE1E1_ 
; He ) aww
Novme 1990



