Report No. PIC2496
Project Name                   Honduras-Natural Resources     rc N
and Land Management Project
Region                         Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                         Natural Resources Management
Project ID                     HNPA7398
Borrower                       The Republic of Honduras
Implementing Agency            Secretary of Natural Resources
Tegucigalpa, HONDURAS
Telephone: 504 329232
Fax: 504 310051
Date PID Prepared              July 17, 1995
Projected Appraisal Date       January 15, 1996
Projected Board Date           March 25, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.   After a decade of slow economic growth that averaged 2.5% per
annum, and mounting fiscal and trade disequilibria, external debt, and
market distortions, the Government of Honduras undertook a structural
adjustment program in 1990, supported by the Second Structural
Adjustment Credit (37-HO). Key elements of this market-oriented reform
were fiscal reform, trade and financial liberalization, removal of price
controls, and flexibilization of the foreign exchange system. Following
a year of stagnation, overall economic performance improved in 1991-92
with real GDP expanding at 4.2% per annum and agriculture growth (20% of
GDP) at 4.9%.     However, this growth did not improve the income of
those small-scale farmers occupying marginal lands, many of whom lack
title and access to appropriate technology and capital.
2.   Natural Resources.   The Government also initiated reforms in the
natural resources sector to reverse the effects of legislation prior to
the 1990s, which encouraged deforestation through adverse land titling
incentives, direct intervention by government in the timber marketing,
and poor regulation of forest management. Tenure insecurity over land
and forests encouraged forest clearing and discouraged investment,
resulting in a loss of about 40% of Honduras' forests over the past 30
years, much of it on land suitable for commercial forestry. Soil
erosion is estimated to cause the annual loss of about 10,000 hectares
of agricultural land. Forests still cover some 45% of the country, and
with better management, for which long term world market prices are more
favorable than for most other commodities, could contribute both to
rural poverty alleviation and greater economic growth.
3.   Policy Framework.   Since 1992, the government has pursued policies
to implement an environmentally balanced natural resource management
strategy, reorienting and strengthening the sector institutions
concerned. The necessary reforms, incorporated into the Agricultural
Modernization Law (AML, April 1992) and supported by the joint Inter-



American Development Bank/World Bank (IDA) Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit (AGSAC, Loan 40-HO, 1993) have substantially improved
the legal and institutional framework for natural resource use and
development and land administration. Activities towards the improvement
of the cadastre and land titling and forest and protected areas
management are underway to reach targets agreed under the AGSAC. These
activities will need to be consolidated and extended nationwide,
strengthening the reformed government institutions.
4.   Agriculture.  Agricultural resource and extension services (4t of
agricultural GDP) rendered by the public sector have been inefficient in
their use of financial and human resources, and in promoting increases
in agricultural and forestry productivity. Agricultural growth has come
mainly from shifts to non-traditional exports from the commercial farm
sector and from forest conversion. Yields are lower than neighboring
countries with similar soil and climatic conditions, although there are
proven technologies in country generating higher yields than current
national averages. While there are a number of innovative and
economically promising watershed and forestry projects that have been
implemented in Honduras with donor funding often through NGOs, the
experiences of these projects have not spread substantially to broader
areas. The AML established the substantial privatization of services in
1992, while retaining state financing for research and extension to
small farmers. To carry out this mandate, the AML created the
Directorate for Agricultural Science and Technology (DICTA), a
semi-autonomous agency of the Secretariat for Natural Resources, with
the express brief of implementing the policy of privatization of these
services, in the implementation of the new law. During AGSAC
preparation, it was proposed that support to operationalize this agency
be included in a follow-up project. To complement AGSAC forestry and
land titling action plan activities, improvements in the system of land
registration and the system for generation and transfer of technologies
appropriate to the small farmer are needed.
Project Objectives
5.   The overall objective of the project is to increase the
productivity and environmental value of the forest and agricultural
resource base. The project continues support of the natural resource
management and land administration activities initiated in support of
the AML through the AGSAC and expands its support to include
modernization of the land registry system and technical generation and
transfer through actions in priority geographic areas of the country.
Field activities will be concentrated on important forested areas, and
the adjacent uplands and priority micro-watersheds. Some support will
also be provided at national level for strengthening the relevant
agencies in SRN and other land agencies. The specific objectives of the
three project components are: (a) modernize the system of rural land
titling and rural land registration; (b) strengthen the forest
administration (AFE/COHDEFOR) in its new role, while incorporating
surrounding populations in forest and protected areas management and
wise use; and (c) establish a modern system of technology generation and
transfer for agriculture, pasture and forest land management. The
project aims to increase the participation of municipalities,
communities, and small farmers, extending successful pilot experiences
- 2-



with locally financed and managed programs to SRN agencies.
Project Description
6.   The project would have three complementary but largely stand-alone
components:
(a) Land administration, which would include financing of mapping,
survey, and management information system equipment, staff and
operating costs, consultant services, technical assistance and
training for: (i) pilot implementation of a modern registry system
at municipal level based on a folio real; (ii) cadastral
activities; (iii) titling in priority natural resource management
areas; and (iv) a promotional campaign for rural producers,
including conflict resolution support. The project will finance
the initial implementation of the government's strategy for modern
land administration, which is being developed in collaboration with
the project preparation team by the Commission on Modernization of
the Property Rights System, an interagency commission headed by the
Supreme Court. The four subcomponents aim to gradually transform
the traditional, personal registry system to a parcel-based system,
while supporting cadastral and titling activities in priority areas
through the National Agrarian Institute (INA) and the national
cadastre (DEC). The component would also support the delimitation
and rationalization of land and forest rights on public and
community lands within the project areas. Particular support would
be given to the regularization of three type of farmers:
small-scale farmers without title who settled on national lands
before the passage of the AML in 1992; indigenous peoples; and
groups of farmers interested in social forestry and conservation
activities on public forest lands in their vicinity.
(b) Natural resource management, which would finance staff and
operating costs, consultant services computer, mapping, and survey
equipment, vehicles, technical assistance, training, and grants to
local communities, producer's organizations and municipalities for:
(i) forest and protected areas management; (ii) participatory
management of priority microwatersheds; (iii) research and
extension supporting forest, protected area, and soil and water
management activities; and (iv) institutional strengthening of
AFE/COHDEFOR to enable the agency to carry out its primary mandate
as a regulatory body for forestry. In coordination with the land
component, support will be given to develop an inventory of public
forests, to delimit community forest management areas, and to
resolve forest and land tenure conflicts in the selected
watersheds.   Management activities would be focused on six to ten
forest blocks (many of which include small protected areas within
their boundaries) and/or protected areas of high biodiversity
selected as high priority by AFE/COHDEFOR within its regular work
program.   The project may support geographic information
technology for monitoring and evaluation and land use planning,
along the lines being developed by the Environment Secretariat
(SEDA) under the recently approved Honduras Environment Project.
(c) Technology Generation and Transfer, which would finance staff
- 3 -



and office costs, consultant services, research equipment,
modernization and repair of research installations, vehicles,
technical assistance and training to support the recently
established national technology generation and transfer program of
the Secretariat of Natural Resources. This will include
institutional strengthening of DICTA, the normative agency for the
program and channeling of funds for research and extension
activities to appropriate government, NGO, academic, municipal, and
private sector institutions. The component will have two areas of
emphasis: support for setting up the overall system of technology
generation and transfer (SNITTA) and a concentrated program of
support to upland farmers and forest producers in marginal areas.
The project would create a grant window for channeling research and
extension activities to upland farmers and forest producers.
Project Financing
7.   A estimated project cost is US$ 50 million, of which US$ 30 million
would be financed by an IDA credit, and the remainder by the Government.
There is a possibility that the Inter-American Development Bank would
provide cofinancing for the overall national technology system within
the Technology Generation and Transfer component. While GEF funding
will not be sought for the project, it is expected that GOH will explore
free-standing GEF support for related natural resource management and
conservation activities during the project period.
Project Implementation
8.   Project implementation will be coordinated and monitored by the
Planning Unit of the Ministry of Natural Resources. Activities in the
three largely stand-alone components would be managed by the respective
federal agencies (AFE/COHDEFOR for natural resources, DICTA for
technology, and INA, Cadastre and the National Property Registry for
land administration).
9.   Funds for institutional strengthening activities    (decentralization
of staff, training and reorientation, management information systems,
field equipment) will be channeled to the respective federal agency.
Special funding mechanisms will be developed for technology, land
registry and natural resource management activities to be carried out at
the municipal or producer level. In the case of the municipal registry
pilot, financing will flow directly to the municipality. The technology
generation and transfer funds will be channeled through the funding
entities being created for this purpose to the government and private
sector (including development NGOs) institutions competing for these
funds. Most of the locally-executed natural resource management and
buffer zone activities will be carried out at municipal and community
level using decentralized financing mechanisms. Studies will be carried
out as a part of project design to determine the appropriate structure
and procedures for establishing and implementing the technology fund(s)
and local-level financing mechanisms. NGOs, including farmers'
associations will likely be involved in all three components as
promoters, community advisors, and as providers of services.
Project Sustainability
-4-



10. This project is intended to consolidate and sustain the
institutional reforms that were initiated under the AGSAC and the
Agricultural Modernization Law (1992). The activities identified are a
part of the core work program at the Secretariat of Natural Resources,
Registry office, and National Cadastral office and the project will seek
to create government capacity to implement the type of participatory,
site-specific natural resource management interventions, both during the
project and in the post-project period, that until now have only
successfully been carried out by specially-funded and recruited staff of
donor-financed pilot projects. Based on a review of current experience
in the country with decentralized mechanisms for channeling development
resources, including the Honduras Social Investment Fund (FHIS), the
project will also devolve substantial planning and implementation
responsibility to municipal, non-governmental, and farmer-based
organizations and foster joint management of public forest and protected
areas, and, by thus promoting local responsibility, help promote the
sustainability of project activities.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations
11. Experience in Honduras and in the sector reveals the following
lessons: (i) overall government institutional capacity for planning and
implementation is weak, requiring careful tailoring of project scope to
the country's absorptive capacity; (ii) decentralized financing
mechanisms, such as those developed in the Honduras Social Investment
Fund, can compensate for weak federal capacity as well as increase local
interest in sustaining investments; (iii) there is a wealth of NGO and
pilot experience with watershed management and small farmer technologies
that could provide a stronger basis for investment projects; and (iv)
sectoral responsibility for forestry and natural resource management has
been fragmented in the past, constraining the efficient use of scarce
fiscal resources. The project preparation exercise has analyzed
experiences acquired in key projects in Honduras and in natural resource
management in neighboring countries and the lessons of that experience
are integrated into the present project design.
Environmental and Social Aspects
12. This project has been assigned to Environmental Assessment Category
B, requiring an environmental analysis, but not a full environmental
assessment. All three project components are designed to improve the
environmental management of forests and to rationalize land use
according to equity and efficiency criteria. Preparation activities
will include an environmental analysis to be undertaken by local
consultants, an assessment of biodiversity conservation priorities and
the status of protected areas, and a detailed review of the
environmental criteria included in forest management plans.     The
natural resources component seeks to foster community forestry on
municipal and national forest lands, and various assessments will be
made as a part of project design to determine the appropriate strategies
and institutional arrangements for community forestry activities. A
full social assessment is planned, which will also include consultation
with stakeholders during the preparation process and an evaluation of
the potential impacts on indigenous peoples. A separate Indigenous
Peoples Development Plan is not required for this project.
- 5 -



Poverty and Program Objective Categories
13. The proportion of the poor among project beneficiaries is expected
to be significantly larger than their proportion in the overall
population, and therefore this project fits the criteria for inclusion
in the Program of Targeted Interventions. The project belongs primarily
to the Environmentally Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction and
Human Resource Development program objective categories.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending January 31,1997.
- 6 -



