Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15917- HO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
February 28, 1997
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit= Lempira
US$1.00 = Lp. 12.94
Lp. 1.00 = US$0.0773
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS, ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
AFE-COHDEFOR         State Forestry Administration--Honduran Forest Development
Corporation (Administraci6n Forestal del Estado- Corporacion
Hondurena de Desarrollo Forestal)
AGSAC                Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2540-HO)
AML                  Agricultural Modemization Law (Ley de Modernizaci6n Agricola)
BANADESA             Govenmment Agricultural Credit Bank (Banco de Credito Agricola)
CEMAPIF              Center for Management and Utilization and Small Forestry Industry
(Centro de Manejo, Aprovechamiento y Pequena Industria Forestal)
CIDA                 Canadian Intemational Development Agency (Agencia Internacional de
Desarrollo Canadiense)
CIDICCO              Honduran NGO working on upland Technologies
COCONA               National Advisory Council on the Environment (Consejo Nacional del
Ambiente)
CODA                 Commission on Agricultural Development (Comisi6n de Desarrollo de
Agricultura)
CONACTA              National Advisory Council on Agricultural Technology (Consejo Nacional de
Tecnologia Agricola)
CONAPH               National Advisory Council for Protected Areas (Consejo Nacional de
Areas Protegidas)
COSECHA              Honduran NGO specialized in upland technology
Vice President:                    Shahid Javed Burki, LACVP
Director, Country Department:      Donna Dowsett-Coirolo, LADCN
Manager, Sector Leadership Group: Michael Baxter, LASLG
Sector Leader:                     Mark Cackler, LADCN
Task Manager:                      Augusta Molnar, LASLG



- 11 -
CSJ                 Supreme Court (Corte Suprema de Justicia)
DAPVS               Protected Areas and Wildlife Department (Departamento de Areas Protegidas
y Vida Silvestre)
DDR                 Directorate of Rural Development (Direccion de Desarrollo Rural)
DEC                 Department of Cadastre (Departamento Nacional de Catastro)
DICTA               Directorate for Agricultural Science and Technology Transfer
(Direcci 6n de Ciencia y Transferencia de Tecnoloia Agricola)
EJIDO               Municipal lands allocated during the pre-independence period for
communal use and urban expansion
FAMA                Honduran NGO working with poor farmers
FHIS                Honduras Social Investment Fund (Fundaci6n Hondurella de
Inversiones Sociales)
FINNIDA             Finnish Development Authority
FMU                 Forest Management Unit
FOLIO REAL          A system of parcel based land information and registration
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GEF                 Global Environmental Facility
GOH                 Government of Honduras
GPS                 Global Positioning System
GTZ                 German Technical Assistance
IBRD                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IDA                 International Development Association
IDB                 Inter-American Development Bank
IFC                 International Finance Corporation
IGN                 National Geographic Institute (Instituto Geogr6fico Nacional)
IMF                 International Monetary Fund



- iii -
INA                 National Agrarian Institute (Instituto Nacional Agrario)
LUPE                USAID-Financed Upland Development Project
M & E               Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS                 Management Information System
NCB                 National Competitive Bidding
NGO                 Non-Government Organization
NRM                 Natural Resource Management
PACO/CARE           Upland project financed by the Christian Relief Agency (CARE)
PBDL                Broadleaf Forestry Development Project (Proyecto de Desarrollo del
Bosque Latifoliado)
PDF                 Project Development Facility
PPF                 Project Preparation Facility
PR                  Property Registry (Registro de la Propiedad)
PRODEPAH            Honduran Project for Support to Agriculture Development
SAG                 Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock (Secretaria de Agricultura y
Ganaderia)
SERNA               Secretariat of Natural Resources and Environment (Secretaria de Recursos
Naturales y del Ambiente)
SINAPH              National System of Protected Areas of Honduras (Sistema Nacional
Hondurefo de Areas Protegidas)
SNIITA              National System of Agricultural Technology
SNITTA              National Research and Technology Transfer System
TVF                 Land of Forest Vocation (Tierra de Vocacion Forestal)
UNDP                United Nations Development Programme
UPEG                New name of UPSA (Unidad de Planeaci6n y Evaluacion)
UPSA                Planning Unit of SAG
USAID               United States Agency for International Development



HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary ....................................................i
1. BACKGROUND ....................................................1
A. Country Overview and Macroeconomic Background .........................................................     1
B. Government Policy, Institutional and Legal Framework ..........................................................2
C. Lessons Learned .........................................................4
D. Country Assistance Strategy .........................................................6
2. THE PROJECT ....................................................6
A. Project Origin ...........................................................6
B. Rationale for IDA Involvement............. .                        ............                            7
C. Project Objectives ...........................8
D. Project Description ............................8
E. Program Objective Categories ...........................                                                  13
F. Project Costs And Financing Plan ...........................                                              14
G. Financial Analysis ............................                                                           14
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND
REPORTING .........                                                                                          15
A. Project Implementation, Coordination and Management ............................................          15
B. Technical and Financial Audits ....................................                                       22
C. Procurement ....................................                                                          22
D         . Disbursement ....................................                                                25
E. Project Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation ....................................                         26
F. Supervision by IDA .....................................                                                  26
This report is based on the findings of pre-appraisal and appraisal missions which visited Honduras in
March and May of 1996 respectively, comprising Messrs./Mmes. Augusta Molnar (Task Manager),
William Beattie (LA2NR), John Joyce, James Smyle, Luis Zelaya, Maria Luisa Pardo, Nelson Espinoza,
and Ana Lucia Moreno (RUTA); Richard Owen (FAO); and Tom Korczowski, Daan Vreughdenhil, Maria
Correia, Juan Martinez, and Robin le Breton (Consultants). Ms. Donna Dowsett-Coirolo is the Country
Director, Mark Cackler is the Sector Leader, and Michael Baxter is the Sector Leadership Group
Manager.



ii
Page No.
4. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS, BENEFITS AND RISKS ........................................... 27
A. Benefits ...........................................................              27
B. Economic Analysis ...................................................             27
C. Environmental Impact ...................................................          30
D. Participation and Social Impacts ...................................................  31
E. Risks ...................................................                         33
F. Sustainability ...................................................               35
5. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES AND
RECOM4MENDATION ............................................. 35
A. Agreements and Assurances ...................................................    35
B. Recommendation ..............             . . .                                  37
TABLES:
Table 1: Project Costs
Table 2: Project Financing Plan
Table 3: Procurement Arrangements
Table 4: Summary of Potential Economic Benefits
CHARTS:
Chart 1: Use of Funds by Project Agencies
Chart 2: Organization Chart Natural Resources Management Component
Chart 3: Organization Chart for the Land Administration Modemization Component
ANNEXES:
Annex A:   Institutional Arrangements and Implementation Schedule
Annex B:   Land Administration Modemization Component
Annex C:   Natural Resources Management Component
Institutional Strengthening
Forest Management
Annex D:   Fund for Upland Producers Sub-component
Annex E:   Protected Areas Sub-component
Annex F:   Cost Tables, Financing Plan and Disbursement Schedule
Annex G:   Project Monitoring, Reporting, and Evaluation
Annex H:   Project Analysis
Economic Analysis
Environmental Analysis
Social Assessment and Participation
Annex I:   Project Implementation Detailed Plan (PIP) Contents
Project Brief IDB Agricultural Technology
Annex J:   Documents in Project File
MAP:        IBRD No. 28168



HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      The Republic of Honduras
Implementing Agencies:         Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock (SAG)
State Forestry Administration - Honduran Forestry
Development Corporation (AFE-COHDEFOR)
Poverty:                       Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                        SDR 23.5 million (US$34.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                         Standard IDA terms, with 40-year maturity
Commitment Fee:                Standard
Financing Plan:                See page 7 in Annex F
Net Present Value:             See Chapter 4, Section B
Map:                           IBRD No. 28168
Project Identification No.:    HO-PA-7398






HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. BACKGROUND
A. COUNTRY OVERVIEW AND MACROECONOMIC BACKGROUND
1.1   After a decade of slow economic growth, averaging 2.5 percent per annum, and mounting
fiscal and trade disequilibria, external debt, and market distortions, the Government of Honduras
(GOH) undertook a structural adjustment program in 1990, supported by the Second Structural
Adjustment Credit (3257-HO). Key elements of this market-oriented program were fiscal reform,
trade liberalization, removal of price controls, and liberalization of the foreign exchange system.
While some important progress was made during the 1990-94 administration and GDP improved
substantially, the administration left serious macro-economic imbalances unsolved.
1.2   The present Government, which took office in January 1994, had initial success in
addressing these imbalances. It completed the second year of an International Monetary Fund
(IMF) Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility program, but was then unable to agree with the
IMF on a third year program. It has also found it difficult to maintain progress in strengthening
fiscal policy, as a result of pressures surrounding the presidential primaries in November 1996 and
general elections scheduled for November 1997. Although the Government has taken some
revenue measures (raising gasoline taxes and telephone rates), further actions were needed and, in
this connection, a revised tax code is presently in Congress. These macro developments have
caused a delay in declaring effective the Public Sector Modernization Adjustment Credit. On the
other hand, the Government has continued to make progress with several of the structural reforms
supported by the Public Sector Modernization Adjustment Credit (especially in the areas of
employment rationalization, changes in the legal framework for telecommunications, legislation
permitting concessions, and modification of the Public Administration Law, setting the basis for
meaningful restructuring of public agencies). Growth is estimated to have decreased from 3.6
percent in 1995 to 3 percent in 1996. The IMF is continuing discussions with Government with
the aim of finalizing agreement on an economic program for 1997.
1.3   Government policy reforms have had an overall positive impact on the real incomes of the
rural poor. Between 1988 and 1993, the real incomes of agricultural workers grew at an average
annual rate of almost 10 percent and producer prices of major agricultural outputs also rose.
Despite this, much remains to be done to reduce widespread rural poverty. National household
surveys and World Bank studies indicate that about 78 percent of households in the poorest 30
percentile of the population are rural. Farms of less than 5 hectares accounted for 72 percent of
all farms in 1993, compared to 64 percent in 1974. A study on rural poverty in Honduras (June
29, 1995), supported by IDA, recommends increasing public investment in the rural sector by
disseminating market information and productive technologies to small farmers. The report also
notes that redressing the inequitable distribution of assets (especially land) is a critical need.



1.4   Public sector reform would make an important contribution to reducing poverty in
Honduras. Altering the role of the government and reducing the size of the public sector and
state-owned enterprises could free public resources for investments in human resources and the
poor. The government has taken steps to reduce its size and promote private sector involvement
in providing public goods and services through its Public Sector Modernization Program. These
efforts are to be supported by an IDA Public Sector Modernization Structural Adjustment Credit
(6740-HO). Measures to reduce the Government's role in the economy are needed, as public
expenditures are well above average for both low- and middle- income countries, and employment
in the public sector still accounts for 8.2 percent of GDP.
1.5  In the agricultural and forestry sectors, important policy and institutional reforms were
embodied in the Agricultural Modernization Law (AML) of 1992, which was supported by the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and IDA through an adjustment credit (AGSAC, Cr.
2540-HO). The AML reversed a 1974 law which dictated that the ownership, management and
use of forest land and trees came under Government purview. Under the AML, forest ownership
and appropriation rights were returned to the forest-land owner. The current law entrusts
Government with regulating, protecting and managing protected areas and national forests
through the Agriculture and Livestock Secretariat (SAG). In addition to redefining the role of the
SAG, the reform also streamlined other sector agencies, eliminating sub-agencies that duplicated
services and transferring important functions to the private sector. This included an attempt to
shift rural credit responsibilities from an inefficient government agricultural credit bank
(BANADESA) to credit societies and unions. Under the new framework, forest management
plans have been prepared in over 300 km2 of public forest-lands and protected areas, public timber
auctions have been held which have stimulated substantial increases in timber's market price, and
some 70 or more management plans have been approved in private and ejido forests (municipal
lands aliocated during the pre-independence period for communal use and urban expansion).
These are encouraging signs that in some areas forest management is becoming an increasingly
attractive alternative to agricultural conversion. Much remains to be done, nevertheless, this is a
positive beginning.
B. GovERNMENT POLICY, INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Government Agencies and other Organizations
1.6   Under the AML, the SAG remains the lead government institution for agriculture and
forest sector policy and action. The SAG is comprised of: (a) the Economic Policy Unit (UPEG),
a planning and policy cell which was strengthened under AML to set policies of the formerly
autonomous land and forest agencies; (b) the State Forestry Agency (AFE-COHDEFOR), a semi-
autonomous forestry agency, which was formerly a para-statal corporation with manufacturing
and marketing responsibilities; (c) the National Agrarian Institute (INA), a semi-autonomous rural
land titling agency formerly burdened with rural development programs as well as land reform;
(d) the Directorate for Agricultural Science and Technology (DICTA), a semi-autonomous
agricultural research and extension agency which, among other responsibilities, sets criteria for
channeling government funds to small producers and research organizations; (e) a phyto-sanitary
directorate; and (f) the Department of Rural Development (DDR), a small directorate established
to assist marginal farmers which has yet to be given a clear mandate or work program



- 3 -
1.7   Other agencies involved in the rural sector are: (a) the Commission on Agricultural
Development (CODA), an advisory committee consisting of agency heads and SAG, which was
formed to ensure that the sector maintains a consistent policy direction; (b) the National Council
for Agricultural Technology Generation and Transfer (CONACTA), a public/private sector
council established to coordinate the country's new National Research and Technology Transfer
System (SNITTA); (c) the Economic Cabinet; and (d) the Technical Advisory Committee
(CONAPH) of the National Environment Advisory Council (COCONA), which comprises
DAPVS, the new Secretariat of Natural Resources and Environment (SERNA), SAG, and
academic and non-governmental institutions and is responsible for setting policy related to
protected areas and biodiversity.
1.8   Land administration is the responsibility of a number of institutions. The Property
Registry (PR), an entity under the control of the Supreme Court, records deeds and transactions.
INA grants titles to farmers settled on lands legally described as "agricultural vocation" lands.
The Department of Cadastre (DEC), an autonomous institute recently moved from the Planning
Ministry to the Ministry of the Presidency, sets standards for legal surveys. Municipalities are
responsible for maintaining legal cadastres within their boundaries in return for taxation authority,
and the National Geography Institute (IGN) sets mapping standards.
1.9   Honduras also has an NGO sector active in small-farmer development and watershed
management, which has provided a wealth of experience on low-cost, effective extension methods
and management practices to increase productivity on small farms while controlling and even
reversing soil degradation. Several bilaterally-funded projects have attempted to extend this
experience, but these efforts have been impeded by limited institutional capacity and the low
priority assigned by government to sustaining these initiatives following termination of external
financing. In some instances the Protected Areas and Wildlife Department (DAPVS) has
successfully experimented with joint protected areas management, whereby important
management and eco-tourism roles have been transferred to locally-based NGOs and community
groups, thus enhancing protection and management within the limited capacity of the public
sector. Other rural sector entities to note are producers' organizations (found primarily among
farmers with better quality land) and a federation of forestry cooperatives organized around
industrial and community forestry, particularly resin collection.
Policy and Legislation
1.10  Under the reform process, the Government has established a new policy framework which
consists of several complementary laws and regulations: (a) the AML, which guides policy for the
sector as a whole; (b) the Municipal Law of 1991, which devolves responsibilities for maintaining
cadastre records, managing ejido forests and decision-making to the municipal level while
increasing budget transfers from central government; (c) the Property Registry Law of 1987,
which mandates that the personal property registry be replaced by folio real (a parcel-based
system in which physical cadastral infornation is overlaid with a consistent legal register of that
parcel--Annex B); (d) the Environmental Law, which creates a system of Environmental Impact
Assessment and assigns an oversight role to the Natural Resources and Environment Secretariat
(SERNA) for biodiversity conservation and land-use zoning; (e) the Public Sector Reform
Program (and accompanying draft General Law of Public Administration), which continues the
process of down-sizing and streamlining agriculture sector agencies; and (f) the Forest Incentives



- 4 -
Law of 1993, which approves incentives for forestation and forest management to encourage
private and community tree plantation, agro-forestry and forest regeneration.
C. LESSONS LEARNED
Country Specific Lessons
1.11  IDA/World Bank projects in Honduras have often experienced problems due to weak
institutions and budgetary constraints for counterpart financing. These problems have been
avoided in the Honduran Social Investment Fund (FHIS) lending programs (Credit No. 2212-HO.
-February 1991, Credit No. 2401-HO, May 1992, and Credit No 14181-HO, June 16, 1995) by
channeling resources through an autonomous agency and allowing it to operate free of
government administrative regulations and salary constraints. In light of this, the proposed
project would: (a) establish a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) reporting directly to the Minister
level (thus placing it above the Secretariat's own executing agencies) to channel external
resources to participating government agencies and to oversee procurement and disbursement
activities; (b) channel resources for upland development directly to beneficiaries by means of an
agricultural research and extension fund, to be managed by a private sector contractor; and
(c) include institutional development measures to increase the capacity of executing agencies in
the private and public sectors.
Sector Lessons
1. 12 Land Administration. A World Bank report on the experiences of 12 rural titling
projects revealed that investments performed well under the following conditions; (a) where the
project had political support and government was committed to providing resources to the
project; (b) where implementation capacity existed; (c) where there existed a comprehensive,
modem system of land administration, which combined reliable physical and legal cadastral
information; and (d) where project objectives were consistent with the overall policy
environment.' Analyzing the proposed project in light of these prerequisites, it is clear that the
project has both the commitment and political support of the Government, as evidenced by the
creation of an active, inter-agency land modernization commission and the establishment of a PPF.
With regard to implementation capacity, however, the necessary conditions are not fully met, and
the design of the project has been tailored to allow for existing weaknesses. Given the lack of a
modem registry system with reliable data, the proposed project will not carry out cadastral or land
titling activities before modernizing the system within which information is generated and
maintained. In addition, the land administration activities themselves have been phased to allow
for adjustments based on pilot experiences and to fit current and projected institutional capacity.
1.13  Natural Resources Management. World Bank experience demonstrates that there are
three fundamental areas where a Forest Department must have information in order to begin
effective forest management. They must know: (a) where the forest is located; (b) what the forest
resources are; and (c) the trends in forest use. AFE-COHDEFOR, is still in the process of
establishing this knowledge base. The natural resources management component of the proposed
project is thus targeted at building up this knowledge and the capacity to use and maintain it. It
1See World Bank, Research and Policy Division Working Paper No. 1992-3 5, March, 1992.



- 5 -
seeks to accomplish this through practical exercises involving planning, training, execution and
follow-up. World Bank experience has also shown the value of building local capacity to engage
in forest and watershed management and in land conservation. The project proposes to bring
local populations and their organizations into the discussion of resources management and to
finance training and technical assistance to increase local capacity in this activity. Specifically, the
project would build on the positive experiences in forestry from the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) and the Finnish Development Authority (FINNIDA), which have
developed models to organize settlers and municipal members into small entrepreneurial units to
log and manage selected forest areas. The project would also seek to mainstream these models
within AFE/COHDEFOR's normal functions, working with field offices to upgrade professional
skills, improve forest information systems and develop new forest management standards and
regulations.
1.14  Support to Poor Upland Farmers. Experience in Honduras indicates that poor farmers
working on marginal lands can increase agricultural productivity and incomes and improve their
land use. Successful projects have been linked to the following factors: (a) employing technically
competent NGOs tc provide extension services; (b) using participatory training and extension
methods; (c) encouraging on-going adaptation and gradual innovation on the part of farmers,
focusing on a limited number of priority activities; and (d) focusing on the human resources of the
farmer by increasing motivation and promoting self-sufficiency. Lessons from the FHIS projects
also demonstrate that targeting resources to the poor can be effective when processes are
transparent and beneficiaries are involved in project planning from the outset. Following this
experience, project preparation has relied on extensive consultation with potential beneficiaries
and NGOs; and it would establish an independent fund for productive activities, to be accessed
directly by upland small-scale producers (both in forest management and small farm production
systems), using NGOs, producer organizations and municipalities as intermediary service
providers.
1.15  Biodiversity Conservation. Lessons from World Bank financed projects containing
biodiversity components reveal a number of key social, political and economic factors determining
project success.2 Successful projects were linked to: (a) institutional strengthening, including staff
training, infrastructure, equipment and improved management systems; (b) participation of local
stake-holders to gain commitment and ownership; (c) financial sustainability of protected areas,
particularly for recurrent costs; (d) flexibility in implementation to allow the project to adapt to
lessons learned; and (e) decentralized management of protected areas to increase efficiency and
develop local capacity. The project responds to these issues by: developing self-financing
mechanisms; working in consultation with local organizations and NGOs; setting aside funds to
study traditional land uses within protected areas; establishing protected blocks within selected
national priority areas (six to ten areas of thirty forest plots each); and providing funds for
capacity building at the local level.
1.16  Gender. In addressing gender issues, the project draws on documented experiences from
neighboring Central American countries, which indicate that a gender perspective changes the
2 See The World Bank and the Environment, A Progress Report, World Bank, 1993; and Mainstreaming
Biodiversity in Development: A World BankAssistance Strategyfor Implementing the Convention on
Biological Diversity, World Bank Environment Papers, Draft for Discussion, October, 1995.



- 6 -
scope and economic potential of forestry and agriculture interventions. In El Salvador, for
example, gender roles and dynamics have affected the outcomes of fuel-wood and reforestation
initiatives because of men's and women's conflicting views over the use of wood. The El
Salvador Agriculture Sector Reform and Investment Project (Loan No. 10933-ES) and the
Nicaragua Agricultural Technology and Land Management Project (Loan No. 11802-NI) have
shown that positive outcomes can be achieved by including a gender perspective during project
design. Hence, the proposed project establishes targeted extension and training programs for
women.
D. COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
1.17 IDA's Country Assistance Strategy for Honduras dates back to July 14, 1993 and was
discussed with the Board on August 5, 1993. The next CAS will be produced in early 1998 to
coincide with the political cycle. At that time the strategy would be up-dated and would
concentrate on helping the Government attain its three medium-term objectives: (a) reducing
poverty; (b) modernizing the economy and the public sector and creating a favorable environment
for private sector development; and (c) managing the country's natural resources more effectively.
These goals would by reached by: carrying out economic, social, and sector analyses focused on
structural, sectoral and institutional issues; building institutional capacity in the public sector;
mobilizing concessional funding for economic and social programs; and developing a lending
portfolio focused on policy-based sector rehabilitation and investment operations. IFC has a
potential role to play in facilitating the transition from public sector to private sector services in
areas such as electricity, telecommunications and port/airports. IDA would continue to work
closely with the IDB and the IMF on sensitive reform programs to minimize conflicting policy
advice and increase aid mobilization for reform operations.
2.   THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT ORIGIN
2.1   During preparation of the AGSAC, the Government requested future IDA and IDB
assistance in implementing the agreed policy reforms. The Government specifically asked for help
in: (a) putting large areas of national forest under active management and reducing pressures on
priority watersheds and biodiversity areas; (b) promoting effective research and extension for
small farmers living on productive lands and for those settled on marginal uplands; and
(c) modernizing the land administration system. In 1994, IDA sent several fact-finding missions
to evaluate problems and opportunities, and in December 1994 a workshop was held with key
agencies to identify a potential project. The December workshop identified a range of problems
and potential programs which were subsequently assigned priority for a proposed project at a
second workshop in May 1995.
2.2   One component, land administration, was not addressed comprehensively in the AGSAC,
because land issues were handled by a number of different agencies with no clear cross-agency
coordinating mechanism. Thus the Supreme Court convened an inter-institutional commission-
made up of the Supreme Court itself, the Property Registry, INA, DEC, and UPSA (now
UPEG)-to study land administration policy. This commission visited Argentina, Peru and Costa



- 7 -
Rica to discuss their experiences in modernizing land administration. The study tour was the first
step in developing a strategy for a more systematic and reliable land registry system based on a
folio real, the system currently mandated by law but as yet not implemented.
2.3   In October 1995, 1DB expressed interest in funding technology generation and extension
for farmers in areas of commercial potential and an institutional strengthening program for
DICTA. As a result, a decision was made to separate the project into two: an IDB-financed
project focused as above, and an IDA-financed project focused on land administration and natural
resources management. The preparation team also explored the feasibility of preparing an
associated GEF project to focus on sites within the Meso-American Biological Corridor to
complement an emerging component of protected areas management. The GEF Secretariat
approved a Project Preparation and Development Facility (PDF) grant of $300,000 in January
1996 to assist in preparing a joint UNDP/lDA biodiversity conservation program in the Honduran
portion of the Meso-American Biological Corridor. Preparation should be completed later this
year, and a formal funding request will be submitted to the GEF Council for approval as part of
the inter-session work program in early 1997.
B. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
2.4   The proposed project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy for Honduras, as
noted above. This strategy gives priority to poverty alleviation, public sector modernization and
sustainable environmental and natural resources management, the latter within the framework of
implementing the AML. Specific approaches to environmentally sustainable development include:
(a) natural resources management, including forestry; (b) conserving biodiversity; (c) reducing
destruction of marine resources; (d) gaining a consensus on priority areas; and (e) strengthening
the legal and institutional framework, including land tenure. Each of these approaches, except
the one related to marine resources, is an important part of the proposed project.
2.5   IDA is in a unique position to support the activities in the proposed project, given its key
role under the AGSAC in assisting the Government with drafting the AML and with its initial
implementation. Planned land administration modernization activities are intended to build long-
term government institutional capacity to establish and maintain information on land and forest
rights. Land activities move beyond land titling within the AGSAC context to modernize the
cadastral system and the Property Registry. The modernization draws upon the experience with
other recent World Bank and IDA-assisted projects in the region. The forest management, upland
producer technology support, and biodiversity conservation activities provide investment
resources to consolidate AGSAC-related reforms. They will foster greater integration of social
and environmental concerns into forest and upland management, and improve technical
soundness, drawing upon lessons from earlier experience.
2.6   As mentioned earlier, the macro-economic situation facing Honduras is difficult. Despite
this, there are good reasons for proceeding with the proposed project. Not only is it important to
maintain the momentum of the AGSAC by providing investment resources, but Honduras' long-
term development priorities (rural poverty alleviation, land administration, natural resources
management), as embodied in the proposed project, will remain a fundamental part of IDA's
Country Assistance Strategy in future. The next CAS is scheduled to coincide with the next
political cycle, with Board discussion in early 1998.



- 8 -
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.7   The proposed Honduras Rural Land Management Project would focus on important
forested areas and on pilot municipalities. Its objectives would be to: (a) modernize the system of
rural land registration, laying a foundation for more effective land titling; (b) strengthen the forest
administration of AFE-COHDEFOR in its new normative role and promote participation of local
populations in managing their natural resources; (c) improve agriculture and forestry practices in
upland farms to stabilize income and thereby decrease forest encroachment; and (d) rationalize the
national protected areas system, putting representative areas of the nation's ecosystems under
management for their conservation.
2.8   The project would address the following key problems: (a) the limited access of poor
upland farmers and forest producers in marginal areas to improved technology and extension;
(b) the country's antiquated system of registering and titling forest and agricultural land and its
lack of a parcel-based records system; (c) conflicting claims to land title between small-scale
farmers, agrarian reform enterprises, indigenous groups and farmers engaged in community
forestry; (d) the weak institutional capacity of INA, DEC, AFE/COHDEFOR and DICTA, and
the lack of coordination between them; (e) the poor capacity of local organizations to manage
forest resources; and (f) the lack of systematic land use planning.
D. PROJFCT DESCRIPTION
2.9   The proposed project would finance a five-year program with two components:
(a) Land Administration Modernization, to test and install a land administration modernization
system based onfolio real), focusing on the Departments of Comayagua, Cortes, Yoro, Olancho
and Francisco de Morazan. These departments have the greatest potential for agricultural and
forest sector development, and also experience a high incidence of land conflict. (b) Natural
Resources Management, to be implemented in priority public forest blocks (as defined by AFE-
COHDEFOR) in the Departments of Yoro, Olancho and Francisco Moraz6n. This component
would finance: (i) forest management with local participation; (ii) improved upland agriculture
and forestry, building capacity in producer organizations and NGOs; and (iii) management of key
protected areas and design of strategies for self-financing in the protected areas system. The
work in protected areas would go beyond the priority public forest blocks to (two to four)
additional sites with ecosystems important to the Meso-American Biological Corridor.
Component 1. Land Administration Modernization
2.10  The projectwould finance a modem system of land administration, based onfolio real, in
which cadastral information would be maintained at a local level, as defined by the jurisdiction of
each registry unit. It would aim to increase security of land and forest tenure and to begin
resolving tenure conflicts on forest lands. In doing this, it would provide a basis for increased
productivity and improved management of natural resources in rural areas and it would also
increase the level of environmental protection. In urban areas and in small rural communities
(aldeas and caserios) surveys and legal investigation would be carried out to provide the
municipal authorities with the necessary data to allow proper land adjudication under the Law of
Municipalities.



- 9 -
2.11  Implementation would be in two distinct phases, comprising five separate activities.
Phase 1 (pilot) would finance US$2.2 million total costs: (a) the creation of a pilot land
information base; and (b) background analysis and participatory field adjudication of property
rights. Phase 2 (expansion) would finance US$10.8 million total costs: (a) improved registry
services in decentralized registry offices; (b) training of the employees and consultant staff of the
federal and municipal institutions involved; and (c) a catalogue of national and municipal forest
areas entered into the PR. Expansion of activities in the second phase would be conditioned
against the satisfactory implementation of the critical actions indicated in the joint plan resulting
from the evaluation of the pilot phase.
Component 2. Natural Resources Management
2.12 This component would have three sub-components, as described in Annexes C, D and E:
(a) Natural Forest Management, to strengthen the capacity of AFE-COHDEFOR and local
communities to manage natural forests; (b) a Fund for Upland Producers, to provide technical
assistance, training and research for better management of uplands (laderas); and (c) Biodiversity
Protection.
Natural Forest Management (ref. Annex C)
2.13  US$12.2 million total costs would be targeted to: (a) institutional development, especially
strengthening the capacity of AFE-COHDEFOR at the local level to manage national forests and
respond to community needs; and (b) sustainable forest resources management, especially building
the capacity of local groups and municipalities to manage forest resources and supporting applied
research in natural forest management. These activities would be executed in stages, and they
would build on experiences of a number of pilot projects already carried out in Honduras
(financed inter alia by CIDA, USAID, GTZ, FINNIDA, WWF, UNDP, NORAD and Norwegian
aid). The proposed project would aim to cover eleven forest management blocks (unidades de
gesti6n) and 22 priority micro-watersheds within the forest units. It is expected that the
management activities in these forest areas would provide lessons on expanding the pilot
experience to larger areas within the policy guidelines of the AML. The project experience should
in turn influence other donor-assisted initiatives in adjacent forests and foster more consistency in
AFE-COHDEFOR's overall program of decentralization.
2.14 Institutional Development. In accordance with agreements reached under AGSAC, the
project would finance the continuing decentralization of AFE-COHDEFOR functions and flow of
funds to the regions and field units initiated under the AGSAC. This would include:
(a) establishment of an in-house training program for AFE-COHDEFOR staff in natural forest
management and administration; (b) logistical and infrastructure support to field units and
regional offices in the form of standardized equipment packages; (c) information systems to allow
for effective decision making and monitoring of natural resources; and (d) technical assistance,
related to project implementation and specific critical subjects related to natural forest
management. Priority areas for technical assistance would include: upgrading administrative
systems and procedures (e.g., personnel, budgeting, supervision, development of operational
manuals); usufruct/tenure options and instruments for regularizing rights of forest occupants and
operating a social forestry program; cost/benefit analysis and recommendations for modifying
forest charges and regulatory costs; development of technical norms and regulations; and
implementing an improved environmental system of private and ejido forest regulation for



- 10 -
bureaucratic efficiency and reasonable control. A plan for decentralized functions and flow of
funds in AFE-COHDEFOR has been agreed at negotiations.
2.15  Sustainable Forest Resources Management. The project would support AFE-
COHDEFOR and local communities in forest tenure, regulation and forest management.
Activities would be initiated in seven priority forest blocks. Expansion of activities to four
additional forest blocks would be conditioned on satisfactory implementation of the critical
actions indicated in the mid-term review. The following main areas of assistance would be
included:
(a)   Forest Tenure and Usufruct. The objective would be to clarify the location and
status (legal and customary usage) of national forest lands and their occupants.
Investments would consist of: (i) mounting and maintaining a permanent database
(Catdlogo de Patrimonio Forestal Inalienable) of all legal information on the
official limits of national forest lands, holdings and tenure status (forest and land);
(ii) a census of national forests occupants (11 FMUs) plus participatory rural
diagnostics to verify census accuracy and identify length of occupancy, traditional
uses and perceptions of rights held by forest occupants; (iii) regularization of the
traditional rights of occupants of national forest lands, including mechanisms for
negotiation and conflict resolution; and (iv) delimitation and demarcation of 1,400
km of national forest boundaries.
(b)   Forest Planning. The project would finance planning for forest protection and
management within the 11 project FMUs, including: (i) environmental impact
assessments and protection plans for approximately 545,000 ha; and
(ii) silvicultural treatment plans for approximately 120,000 ha.
(c)   Forest Inventory. In production pine forests, the project would finance: (i) FMU-
level forest inventories for approximately 300,000 ha; (ii) stand-level inventories
for approximately 150,000 ha; and (iii) annual operating plan inventory and
marking activities (for silvicultural treatments and harvesting) for approximately
150,000 ha.
(d)   Promotion, Participation, and Public Consultation. The project would aim for
transparency in state decision-making regarding public forest lands. Investments
for this purpose would consist of: (i) dissemination of information on public forest
management objectives, plans and activities in public forests; (ii) public seminars
(85 total) on topics of importance to communities, municipalities, industry and
private forest owners regarding legal, environmental, social and technical aspects
of forest resources management; (iii) public awareness campaigns on forest fire,
illegal logging and private forest management options; (iv) municipal-level public
consultations (25 total) on forest management plans; and (v) community-level
public consultations (60 total) on forest management plans and annual operating
plans.
(e)   Forest Management. The project would finance: (i) forest fire control (including
a system of fire watch towers) for approximately 545,000 ha; (ii) forest vigilance
for approximately 545,000 ha; (iii) silvicultural treatments for approximately



- 11 -
120,000 ha; (iv) implementation of timber auction plans for approximately 30,000
ha; (v) implementation of protection plans in 7 protected areas; and (vi) forest road
improvements/rehabilitation on 45 km of forest roads.
(f)    Forest Research would include data collection, analysis and presentation of
findings from permanent sample plots in support of upgrading technical
prescriptions for sustainable harvesting of forest products.
Fund for Upland Producers (Annex D)
2.16 US$7.2 million total costs would be applied to the Fund for Upland Producers, which
would support improved natural resources management in agriculture and livestock; natural
forests and micro-watersheds. It would reach approximately 6,500 households over the life of the
project and would finance: (a) technical assistance and training for upland farmers and
municipalities; (b) applied research in support of agriculture, livestock and natural forest
management for upland areas; and (c) training of natural resources professionals who provide
technical services to upland farmers.
2.17 Details of the technical assistance, training and research programs which would be eligible
for financing from the fund are given in Annex D. Eligible activities would include (a) extension
services (technicians, para-technicians, extension materials and operational expenses);
(b) agriculture and forestry inputs for communal/municipal nurseries and the initial introduction of
plant germplasm for conservation and soil fertility management (seed, vegetative material,
germplasm, simple agricultural tools, and agro-chemical); (c) costs of certain legal procedures
(such as assistance to organizations in obtaining legal status and usufruct contracts); (d) applied
research in small-scale (community) natural forest management, non-traditional species utilization,
hill-slope agriculture technology (soil and moisture conservation and soil fertility management),
improved small-scale livestock management and integrated pest management (IPM); and
(e) training courses, seminars and workshops for natural resources professionals, focusing on
technical aspects of natural resources management (hill-slope production systems and natural
forest management) and on methodological aspects of extension and participatory diagnostics,
planning and evaluation.
2.18  Financing of technical assistance and training from the fund would be in the form of grants
to private technical assistance providers, based on contracts established between SAG, these
entities and farmers, or communities and municipalities in the upland areas. Financing of applied
research would be channeled through eligible institutions and entities which are members of the
National Research and Technology Transfer System (SNITTA). Priorities would be set through a
series of consultations in which the national research policy entity (CONACTA) would
participate.
2.19  The fund would be treated from the outset as a pilot, to be reviewed and amended at the
first review exercise which would be held at the end of the second year of the project. Further
amendment may be needed at the formal mid-term review during the third year of the project. At
the beginning of the project, activities requiring funding would include: (a) completion of the
procedures manual, including preliminary testing of design and adjustments; (b) setting up a roster
of experienced consultants and a management information system; (c) research and training
prioritization exercise (i.e., series of consultations and workshops with clients and end-users);



- 12 -
(d) establishment of the Fund Secretariat; and (e) contracting of a Fund Manager. At present,
IDB has agreed to finance (d) and (e) out of the complementary Agricultural Technology Project.
Biodiversity Conservation (Annex E)
2.20 US$5.8 million total costs would be targeted for biodiversity conservation in protected
areas. This sub-component would strengthen existing SINAPH (National Protected Areas
System) areas of national and international significance within COHDEFOR. The component
would be complemented by an associated GEF grant (under preparation jointly with UNDP).
Within the overall regional priorities of the Meso-American Biological Corridor, the proposed
IDA project would finance management of those priority sites with outstanding economic
potential (eco-tourism) judged to be capable of being financially self-sufficient, while the proposed
GEF grant would finance management of those sites with the highest biodiversity value. The
proposed GEF Biodiversity Conservation Project would include: (a) institutional strengthening;
(b) investments similar to the ones financed under the proposed IDA credit for seven protected
areas in the biological corridor, including one visitor center; (c) buffer zone investments; and
(d) monitoring.
2.21 National Priority Setting for SINAPH. A map of Honduran ecosystems is being
prepared partially with PPF and GEF preparation funds to help analyze the "representativity" of
the existing SINAPH areas, along with a gap-analysis (i.e. identification of ecosystems under-
represented or absent in the SINAPH). Through this project and the proposed GEF grant,
SERNA and the Protected Areas Agency, DAPVS, would host a series of consultations to
evaluate the current protected areas system, identify gaps in this coverage and any deterioration in
areas which may change their conservation priority. National consensus for a rationalized
SINAPH would be sought through a consultative process, and these priorities would be approved
in dialogue with concerned municipalities and their residents. It is not anticipated that during the
life of the project any current SINAPH areas would be de-gazetted or suffer a change in legal
protection status. Nor is this an objective of the exercise. The basic objective is to ensure that
there is an adequately defined SINAPH, fully representing biodiversity and landscape values and
that it has a well-defined set of priorities to allow rational decisions to be made in protected area
management.
2.22  Preliminary Selection. In the absence of a national consensus on a rationalized SINAPH,
it was agreed with GOH that the IDA project would focus investments on areas which retain
significant portions of their natural habitats or have outstanding income generation potential or for
the presence of high-profile species. There is a high degree of certainty that in a rationalized
SINAPH these "core areas" would still maintain a top priority status. To identify these areas,
reconnaissance flights and field inspections were carried out that covered almost all 107 protected
areas. Areas with more than 90 percent unaltered vegetation in their core areas and with little or
no permnanent habitations were considered to qualify as core areas. Areas with less than 75
percent natural vegetation and considerable human presence in their core areas were considered to
qualify as areas of regional biodiversity potential. The latter would also have additional values for
other management objectives, such as multiple use, watershed management or forestry programs.
Five areas which fell in between these categories need further investigation. Based on this
analysis, sixteen areas or clusters of areas were identified that could constitute the core
management units of largely pristine habitat. Additionally, two cave sites were included as natural



- 13 -
monuments for their visitation potential and some few beach sites in the Gulf of Fonseca to
protect marine turtle nesting sites.
2.23  Investments in Protected Areas. The IDA project will focus on those priority sites
within the SINAPH with outstanding value for eco-tourism development while the GEF will focus
on those sites with the highest biodiversity value. This IDA project sub-component would finance
infrastructure and equipment to: (a) establish in three high interest protected areas (PAs) visitor
centers of international standing, including interpretation programs and nature trails; and
(b) upgrade seven existing areas with duty stations and basic administrative centers for
management staff and rangers, trails or access roads to duty stations, vehicles, motorcycles,
horses, and radios for communications to and within protected areas.
2.24 Management Planning and Demarcation. Under this sub-component, management
plans and demarcation activities would be prepared for at least two high-interest PAs being
funded.
2.25   Self-financing Mechanism and Coverage of Recurrent Costs. This sub-component
would consist of: (a) the creation of a fund (fideicomiso) to administer income from entry fees
charged at visitor centers and possibly income from other sources, to be managed by a
commercial bank, which would handle entry fees, make all payments to the PAs that qualify under
a pre-established set of rules (salaries and maintenance of equipment and infrastructure).
Assuming continuing government funding of the SINAPH at current levels, it is expected that the
fund would be self-supporting for the core areas by the third year of the project; (b) institutional
strengthening (hiring of personnel) of the unit for the management and administration of the core
protected areas; (c) recurrent costs of vehicles and equipment in the first two years (until income
generated from entry fees at the visitor centers takes over). Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that GOH would ensure adequate budget for the incremental protected areas staff to
be recruited and their expenses, should the Protected Areas Fund not generate the expected
resources to cover these costs.
2.26  Training. The project would finance training of staff to implement the self-financing
mechanism, to manage and protect the core areas, and to work with visitors and local
communities.
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
2.27 The PCU would be responsible for the overall management of the proposed project. PCU
financing would be used for: (a) planning and monitoring of project budgetary resources;
(b) processing disbursement, procurement of goods and services, and carrying out technical
audits; (c) monitoring and supervision; (d) evaluation and special studies in land management,
agricultural technology and natural resources; (e) training of PCU staff; and (f) office equipment.
E. PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES
2.28  The proportion of the poor among project beneficiaries is expected to be significantly
larger than their proportion in the overall population, and therefore this project fits the criteria for
inclusion in the Program of Targeted Interventions. The project belongs primarily to the



- 14 -
Environmentally Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction and Human Resources
Development Program Objective Categories.
F. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
2.29   Total project costs including contingencies and taxes are estimated at about US$41.8
million equivalent, (see Table 1, below). Baseline costs are estimated at US$38.1 million and
physical contingencies at US$1.4 million, or 4 percent of total baseline costs, including a Project
Preparation Facility of US$2 million. Price contingencies were estimated at US$2.3 million, or
about 6 percent of baseline costs plus physical contingencies. Annual price increases were applied
to foreign costs in all categories in US dollar terms at a rate of 2.6 percent, assuming purchasing
power parity during the five-year disbursement period.
Table 1. Estimated Project Costs
(US$ million)
%     % Total
Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign  Total Exchange  Costs
A. Land Administration Modernization
Pilot Phase                             1.2    0.9    2.1       42        5
Post Pilot Phase                        9.0    0.7    9.7        7       26
Subtotal:                                10.3    1.5   11.8        13      31
B. Natural Resources Management
Improved Natural Resources Management   5.0    6.0   11.0       54       29
Fund for Upland Producers               6.8    0.0    6.8        -       18
Biodiversity Conservation               4.1    1.2    5.4       23       14
Subtotal                                 15.3    7.2   23.1        31      61
C. Project Coordination Unit              3.1    0.1    3.2         2        8
Base Costs                             29.3    7.2   38.1       23      100
Physical Contingencies                  1.0    0.5    1.4       31        4
Price Contingencies                     1.9    0.5    2.3       18        6
Total                                  32.2    9.6   41.8       23      110
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not add precisely.
2.30 The proposed IDA credit of US$34.0 million equivalent would finance 81 percent of total
costs excluding taxes and duties. Foreign exchange accounts for 23 percent of the proposed costs
of the project. IDA would cover an amount equivalent to the total amount of foreign exchange
costs (US$9.1 million) plus US$24.9 million of the local costs (excluding taxes).
G. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
2.31   GOH Counterpart Funding. The GOH is experiencing severe financial constraints,
and recent salary adjustments for all public servants and debt service payments leave little room
for accommodating new commitments. However, the proposed project would implement
activities which are of high priority for GOH in its attempt to stimulate economic growth.
Furthermore, the Natural Resources Management component, the largest part of the Project, is



- 15 -
directly targeted at a potentially highly productive sector -- forestry. The income generated
during the life of the project from stumpage fees in the project area alone would be between
US$30 million and US$45 million, more than adequate to finance the counterpart requirement for
the entire project. Based on the policy letter contained in AGSAC, the AFE's budget will in the
future be allocated from within the Government's budget, and all revenues from forest products
or services rendered by AFE will be deposited in the Government's general account.
2.32 In general, counterpart funding for the project should not represent an additional burden
to GOH's finances. The same is true of the proposed IDB credit for Agricultural Technology,
which has a counterpart requirement of about US$12 million. As this would be targeted to
farmers with high commercial potential, there should be a short-term revenue gain, as a result of
the IDB financed project, from taxes on the increased marketing of cash crops. Given the
expected phasing of the two projects, GOH's finances should not be overburdened by the
combined impact of their counterpart requirements.
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND
REPORTING
A. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, COORDINATION AND MANAGEMENT
3.1   Project Coordinating Unit. A project coordination unit (PCU) would be established in
the SAG to manage the project, facilitate coordination among the various implementing and
policy-making agencies, assume responsibility for significant procurement and audits, and prepare
global supervision and evaluation reports. To ensure consistency of project implementation with
sectoral policies, this unit would be housed within UPEG. To complete the tasks assigned to it,
the PCU would require four full-time technical consultants, two full time administrative personnel
and 20 months of local consultants to assist in project implementation as needed. It would be
provided with one vehicle, computers, office equipment and operating costs. Establishment of the
PCU has already been initiated in SAG with the appointment of several staff dedicated to the
start-up of the project. The PCU will be formally established and fully staffed as a condition of
effectiveness.
3.2   The SAG, through the PCU, would be responsible for the overall management of the
proposed project. GOH has agreed to maintain adequate staff and/or engage consultants with
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA to carry out the project. The administrative and
technical responsibilities of the PCU are discussed in greater detail in the Project Operations
Manual (Manual de Operaciones para la Ejecuci6n del Proyecto de Administracion de Areas
Rurales de Honduras) which can be found in the project files (see Annex J). The content of a
Participation Agreement among SAG and the various implementing agencies involved in the Land
Administration Modernization Component was agreed at negotiations. Signing of the
Participation Agreement is a condition of effectiveness. In general, the PCU would:
(a)   prepare, in the implementation of the proposed project, the annual operating plan
and budget, in consultation with all participating agencies and organizations;



- 16 -
(b)   monitor project budgetary flows over and above those which the implementing
agencies in the SAG would receive through direct SHCP budgetary procedures;
(c)   track and report to the appropriate agencies of the GOH and IDA, all expenses
incurred during project implementation;
(d)   track the progress in project implementation using the agreed upon performance
and impact indicators;
(e)   supervise disbursement, procurement of goods and services, and audits;
(f)   act as a procurement agent for larger packages of goods and services financed
under the project to reduce the administrative burden on implementing agencies;
(g)   manage the land administration modernization component, in coordination with the
ad hoc Advisory Council for Land Modernization under the CSJ;
(h)   review the terms of reference of selected contracts and technical specifications of
selected equipment to ensure consistency with project objectives and established
implementation targets;
(i)   provide intellectual leadership on innovative aspects of project implementation,
such as strategies for beneficiary participation in forest and protected areas
management plans, and the treatment of indigenous groups in the land adjudication
process; and
(j)   initiate periodic supervision missions with or without IDA participation, including
preparing necessary documentation.
3.3   Land Administration Modernization. The PCU and an ad hoc Advisory Council
established by CODA at the federal level would coordinate the land administration modernization
component. The component would involve the following entities: (a) an Executing Unit,
consisting of staff from DEC and INA, and reporting to the PCU, which would be responsible for
carrying out cadastre and adjudication work at the field level; (b) a Territorial Commission,
comprising representatives of INA, AFE-COHDEFOR, DEC, UPEG, the municipalities and the
Executing Unit, which would be responsible for coordinating participating institutions and
arbitrating conflicts that arise in the municipalities; (c) DEC, which would be responsible for
managing cadastre information, technical quality control of private companies, and establishing
technical norms for cadastre and adjudication; (d) INA, which would administer the titling
program at the field level and be responsible for promotional activities at the community level;
(e) the CSJ Advisory Team, which would assure that cadastre and adjudication are carried out
according to the laws of the country; (f) the Property Registry (PR), which would reform the
registration process and establish information and computer systems; and (g) UPEG, which would
oversee implementation of the component (see organizational chart below). A Municipal
agreement would be signed by each municipality prior to initiating activities in that municipality.
3.4   Natural Forest Management. AFE-COHDEFOR would be responsible for carrying out
the Forest Management sub-component as follows: (a) the regional offices of AFE-



- 17 -
COHDEFOR-with the participation of local communities-would carry our forest inventories
and forest management planning as well as prepare related terms of reference, technical
specifications etc.; and (b) the central offices of AFE-COHDEFOR (Planning, Norms and Control
and Promotion and Extension Departments) would carry out activities related to institutional
strengthening, information systems, and forestry regulations. For the biodiversity sub-component,
the Protected Areas Agency would be responsible for preparing a human resources development
plan, recruiting and training staff, coordinating actions related to biodiversity with donors and
financial institutions and the content of a contracting physical improvements in park areas (see
organizational chart below). The contents of a subsidiary agreement between SAG and AFE-
COHDEFOR was agreed upon at negotiations and the signing of this agreement is a condition of
effectiveness.
3.5   The Upland Fund. The SAG, through DICTA and the PCU, would be responsible for
implementing the Upland Fund. The following entities would also be involved in its
implementation: (a) an Upland Fund Committee (UFC) (a joint private/public sector committee
with eight to nine representatives from AFE-COHDEFOR, DICTA, SNITTA, the Finance
Ministry, professional colleges, farmer and forestry groups would approve fund activities
according to CONACTA policies; (b) a private sector organization or firm would be contracted as
Fund Manager to promote the fund, carry out the technical review of proposed fund activities,
supervise disbursements of fund resources, and maintain quality control; (c) private sector TA
providers would be contracted to provide extension and training to upland farmers; and
(d) accounts would be maintained in a private bank which would disburse resources to TA
providers according to the directions of the Fund Manager. Before submission to the UFC for
approval, all proposals would be passed to the PCU for verification that they were consistent with
the IDA Credit Agreement. The creation of the Selection Committee and the establishment of the
fund are both conditions for disbursement against this subcomponent.
3.6  IDB would, within the same time frame as this project, finance a technology transfer and
generation project targeted at large, medium and small producers with commercial potential (i.e.,
in terreno de vocaci6n agricola). IDA has agreed with IDB that the same management structure
would be used for the two funds in order to support the establishment of a GOH mechanism for
channeling of technology funds nationally. The regulations and criteria for the fund were agreed
at negotiations and comments were made on a draft decree for establishing the Technology Fund.
The effectiveness of the fund would be evaluated during the first pilot review and the formal
review and action plans for future operation of the fund would be agreed during each of those
reviews.
3.7   A longer-term mechanism has been proposed by SAG/DICTA for channeling and
administering funds through the creation of a separate foundation or trust. The IDB-funded
project would have as a goal over its five year life the creation of this entity. As this would
require a legislative act (which may require several years to obtain) the project would begin
implementation through an interim mechanism. If pilot and mid-terms reviews recommend that a
legally constituted foundation or trust is set up in later years, the Upland Fund mechanism could
be modified to reflect the needs of a more permanent institution.
3.8   Flow of Funds. Chart 1 below lists the agencies charged with approval of expenditures
related to the different components of the project. The two agencies with final expenditure



- 18 -
approval are the PCU, acting for the SAG, and AFE-COHDEFOR. In the Land Administration
Modernization Component, the PCU would approve withdrawals from the Special Account to
cover eligible expenditures, agreed in annual operational plans drawn up by the implementing
agents (INA, DEC, PR and the Territorial Commissions at field level). INA and DEC would also
make expenditures under the project using counterpart funds provided through normal budgetary
processes. In the Forest Management and Institutional Strengthening Sub-Components,
excepting Protected Areas Strengthening, AFE-COHDEFOR would make withdrawals from the
Special Account against agreed Annual Operating Plans for eligible expenditures, which would be
supplemented by counterpart resources derived from its own operating budget. It may also
advance its own field offices up to three months of eligible expenditures for agreed project
activities. In the case of the Biodiversity Conservation sub-component, the PCU would approve
expenditures from the Special Account to be made by the Protected Areas Agency within the new
Environment and Natural Resources Secretariat. In the case of the Upland Fund, a current
(Upland Fund) account would be established in a commercial bank, which would make payments
to service providers against established contractual arrangements. This Upland Fund Account
would be replenished regularly from the Special Account in accordance with agreed operational
plans and on authority of the PCU. These replenishments would be contingent on presentation of
eligible SOEs.
B. TECHNICAL AND FiNANCALL AuDrrs
3.9   The PCU would maintain records and accounts of all transactions related to the Project.
The Government would hire independent auditing services satisfactory to IDA to prepare annual
audits at the end of each Honduran fiscal year, starting January 1997. The audit reports would
include separate opinions on the use of SOEs and the special account. The PCU and AFE-
COHDEFOR would submit the audit reports to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal
year. International consultants would conduct technical audits of the land administration
modernization and natural resources component at the end of year 2 and year 4. These would be
critical given the newness of thefolio real approach in Honduras and the lack of experience in
AFE-COHDEFOR with decentralized procedures. Procurement arrangements were agreed with
GOH during negotiations.



- 19 -
Chart 1.    Use of Funds by Project Agencies
... ...........;. ;................................................................... ......................... ....... ......... ... ;Ac?Icg.............   ;.... ....  .................................C.................t...
ComponentlActi-vity                                                Agency Approving   Agency Incurrng Expenditures Against Credit
Expenditures
Against Credit
.............................................................................................    ........................... .......................   ......................... ............. ....................  .................................................
Land Administration Modernization                                   PCU                            Territorial Commissions formed at
Establishment of Land Information                                                                  municipal/field level
Base
.............................................................................. ..................... ................................................  ........................................................................................
Registration of Land Information                                   PCU                             Property Registry
............................................................................... ..................... ............................ .................... ............................ ............. ....................................................................
Training and Capacity Building                                     PCU                             PCU or concerned sub-agency (INA,
Activities                                                                                         DEC, PR)
........... ......................................................................................... ............................ .................... ............................ ............. .................................................... ................
Forest Management
Institutional Strengthening                                        AFE-                            AFE-COHDEFOR
COHDEFOR
Management Plans                                                                                   Field Offices
AFE-
Training and TA                                                    COHDEFOR    AFE-COHDEFOR
Catalogue of National                                              AFE-                            AFE-COHDEFOR/Land Administration
Forest Lands                                                       COHDEFOR                        Agencies
.. ..    ...................... .. ............ ......................................................   .......................... ......................... ....................... ............ ................................ .....................................
Participatory Planning                                             PCU                             AFE-COHDEFOR and PCU consultants
................. ................................................................................... .............I............... .................. .............................. ............ ...................................................................
Upland Fund                      Upland Proposals  PCU                                             PCU; Fund Management approve
expenditures on an account managed by
private bank
Consultants to Fund Manager                                        PCU                             PCU; Fund Management
Audits/Evaluations                                                 PCU                             PCU
Biodiversity Conservation Feasibility   PCU                                                        AFE-COHDEFOR (DAPVS)
and Management Studies
........................... ......................................................................... ............................ .................... ............................ ............ ......................................... ...........................
Park Infrastructure                                                PCU                             AFE-COHDEFOR (DAPVS)
E   a    a   o    o    P    k     u      a   d  A      iP               UC                                  A        C     HF...............................................................................................................................  ....O......................................................................................................
Evlaion of Park Fund and Audits   PCU                                                        PCU/AFE-COHDEFOR
...........................................................................................   ........ .......................................    .............................................................. ...................  ...........  ............... ................... ....................................



- 20 -
Chart 2: Organizational Chart Natural Resources Component
Policy Making
Bodies                CONACTA                      CODA          CONAPH
Ministerial                SAG           PCU               A       SERNA
Bodies                                                 UPSA
Implementing
Agencies                                AFE-             Depto. de
| DICTA|    ~UPLAND        /      COHDEFOR   ._Areas              PAs Fund
FUND       /I                         Protegidas
--  \     |~Unidad         (DPS
-- \ ~~RegionalI
Contracted          lana gmentrcial
Fund  (F-Agent)               ~~~Park Manage-
ment Staff
| NGOs    |    | Producer                         Research
|Providers  |    GrowDs     |   Municioalitv       Isiuin
Fund Recipients/             Community
Participants in Manage-      Forestry Group              Environmental
ment Plans                                               Advocacy Groups



- 21 -
Chart No. 3. Organizational Chart for Land Administration Component
Policy                 CSJ Advisory              Territorial Committee
Making Bodies          Council on Land           in Pilot Municipalities
Administration
Ministerial Level                                Corte Suprema
SAG                 de Justicia
Bodies
PCU                      Superintendencia
de Registro
Implementing            Executing Unit in Pilot
Agency Bodies           Area
DEC-INA-Muni-Consults.           Registry
Pilot Area
Registry
j = - -i              ~~~~~~Office
FOLIOREAL--
J BASEDATO.D
iMunicipalities                   l    |Local     |
Local Level                                             rAFE
Institutions/ Other                                              Office
Participants
Cooperatives/                 NGOs
Social Forestry
Groups



- 22 -
3.10 AFE-COHDEFOR and SAG would maintain separate central project accounts, including
consolidation of accounts from different directorates. Each of AFE-COHDEFOR's four regional
offices would also maintain separate accounts for project expenditures incurred by them. All
accounts would adequately reflect project expenditures made in accordance with sound
accounting practices. The PCU would review financial documents (procurement, disbursements
requests, budget audit reports) before submission to IDA. A certified copy of the project audit by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA and in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March, 1982), would be
submitted to IDA not more than six months after the completion of each financial year. The audit
report would include a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against certified
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and the Special Account. The PCU would contract the
auditors as a multi-year contract to increase likelihood of compliance with this activity. The PCU
would make SOEs available to IDA and its supervision missions. Accounting and auditing
arrangements were agreed at negotiations.
C. PROCUREMENT
3.11  All project components financed under the proposed IDA credit would be procured in
accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under EBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January
1995, and revised in January and August 1996). Procurement arrangements are summarized in
Table 2. The SAG or AFE-COHDEFOR would be responsible for all the procurement of items to
be financed by IDA.
3.12  Given the fact that this is the first IDA project to be implemented by the SAG, training on
IDA' s procurement procedures started during preparation with the management of a PPF and
assistance from UNDP. Procurement skills of the SAG would be further enhanced by having staff
undergo IDA sponsored procurement and disbursement training courses.
3.13  Works. To the extent practicable, contracts for works would be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$150,000 or more. Such contracts would be
awarded through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) using standard bidding documents
acceptable to IDA. Small works valued at less than US$150,000 would be procured under lump-
sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations from at least three qualified
domestic contractors, up to an aggregate amount of US$325,000.
3.14 Goods. Vehicles, computers and office equipment purchases would be packaged into
contracts valued at more than US$150,000 and procured through Limited International Bidding
(LIB) from suppliers with established service and maintenance facilities in Honduras and
neighboring countries. Goods (including vehicles, computers and office equipment, field
equipment and furniture) would be procured through NCB in packages valued at more than
US$25,000 but less than US$150,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$800,000. Miscellaneous
equipment items valued at US$25,000 or less, up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000 would
be procured using national and international shopping procedures, based on price quotations from
at least three suppliers.



- 23 -
Table 2: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method
International National
Competitive Competitive
Bidding     Bidding      Other     NABF.       Total
A. Works /a                    -          3.2        0.3 b/       -          3.5
(2.5)       (0.3)                 (2.8)
B. Goods                      1.2         0.8         1.9c/       -          3.9
(1.0)       (0.7)      (1.5)                  (3.0)
C. Consultants                 -           -         16.6 d/      -         16.6
(16.2)                (16.2)
D. Training                    -                      2.4                   2.4
(2.4)                 (2.4)
E. Subprojects                 -           -          7.2         -         7.2
(5.3)                 (5.3)
F. PPF                         -           -          2.0        -.         2.0
(2.0)                 (2.0)
G. Incremental Recurrent Costs  -          -          6.2         -         6.2
(2.2)                 (2.2)
Total                           1.2         4.0         36.6        -         41.8
(1.0)      (3.2)       (29.8)                (34.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
a/ Include mapping works.
b/ Three quotations procedure for small works.
c/ Includes LIB ($1.4 million) and national/international shopping ($0.5 million)
d/ Services to be procured in accordance with world bank and IDA Guidelines: Use of Consultants by the
WorldBank as ExecutingAgency (August1981).
3.15   Consultant Services and Technical Assistance. All consultant services would be
procured according to the guidelines, Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency (August, 1981). These services, which are estimated to
aggregate to US$16.6 million, would be contracted using IDA-issued standard form of contracts.
Technical assistance for the Fund for Upland Producers would be procured by clients under
contracts with values between US$5,000 and US$15,000 on the basis of procurement and
procedures as specified in Annex D.
3.16   All procurement aspects were confirmed during negotiations, in particular on the use of:
(a) standard bidding documents for NCB procedures for the procurement of goods and civil
works satisfactory to IDA; and (b) standard contract forms for consulting services issued by IDA
for lump-sum contracts and complex, time-based consulting assignments. For prior review limits,
see Table 3.
3.17 Provisions in Legal Documents. An assessment by the Bank of Honduras procurement
procedures and regulations indicated that they are not fully compatible with Bank Group
procurement guidelines and policy. To resolve inconsistencies between local legislation and
Bank's procurement guidelines during negotiations, agreement was sought to include the
following procurement provisions in the legal documents. (a) For goods and works to be
procured under LCB, LIB and NCB procedures: (i) contracts would be awarded to the lowest



- 24 -
evaluated bidder; and (ii) foreign bidders would not be required to: a. be locally registered as a
condition of participation in the selection process; b. give any participation to local consultants;
and c. furnish any certificate issued by a local authority about their legal capacity or tax status.
(b) For consultants' services, foreign consultants would not be required to: (i) be locally
registered as a condition of participation in the selection process; (ii) give any participation to
local consultants; and (iii) furnish any certificate issued by a local authority about their legal
capacity or tax status
Table 3: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$ thousands)
.Ca                 Ctt                  Procurement Method          Contracts Subject to Prior Review
WORKS                   >US$150                    NCB                First 2 contracts each year
<US$150The
,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ..............  <,U$15..Three,,,uotat,,on,    None
PROPOSALS FOR            US$5-15          Community Procurement       All contracts first year and 3 per year
TA       UNDER                                                        thereafter against standard contracts;
UPLAND FUND                                                           any non-standard proposals thereafter
............................................. ............ ........................................... ............ ............................................................. .................. .........................................................
GOODS
Vehicles,
computers and           >US$100                    LIB                All
office
equipment
<US$150                   NCB                First 2 contracts each year
Field
equipment and            <US$25            National/International     None
furniture                                        shopping
Other                    <US$25            National/International     None
.quipment.                                       shopping.
CONSULTING
SERVICES                                   Selection according to
-Firms                   >US$50            Consultant Guidelines      All
<US$50                                       Review of TORs only. Other steps in
selection process are exempted from
prior review. *
-Individuals             >US$20                                       All
<US$20                                       Review of TORs only. Other steps in
selection process are exempted from
prior review. *
3.18 Procurement Review. Prior review by IDA would be required for: (a) all contracts
awarded through LIB and ICB; (b) the first two contracts for goods, and works awarded under
NCB; and (c) all contracts for consulting services, with the exceptions noted below in Table 3. All
other contracts would be subject to ex-post review by IDA during supervision. These
arrangements would ensure prior review by IDA of about 60 percent of the value of all IDA-
financed contracts. The PCU would maintain all procurement documentation for periodic
supervision by IDA staff. The table below highlights the thresholds for each procurement method
and for prior review.



- 25 -
3.19 In addition to the IDA's ex-post review, post-review would also be carried out by the
SAG. For this purpose, the SAG would recruit auditors, under terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA, who would not only examine financial implementation, but also procurement procedures,
physical implementation and impact on beneficiaries. These auditors would carry out annual
audits on the basis of a sample not lower than 60 percent of the IDA financed investments
categories in the first project year, 50 percent in the second project year and 40 percent in later
years. For convenience and to avoid overlaps, the same auditors would carry out an ex-post
review of the expenditures and investments financed by IDA.
3.20 Procurement Agent. The PCU may elect to retain the services of UNDP as procurement
agent to assist in the procurement of goods and services.
D. DISBuRRSEMENT
3.21  Disbursements would occur over the project's five-year life. The Credit closing date
would be January 31, 2003.
3.22  The Credit would be disbursed against eligible project expenditures at the rate of 85
percent for works under the land administration modernization component, 70 percent for works
under the forest management subcomponent, 70 percent for works under the forest management
plans, and 85 percent for other works; 100 percent for foreign costs for equipment and furniture
and 80 percent for goods purchased locally; 100 percent for consultant services and training; 100
percent for upland fund sub-projects, and 90 percent, 50 percent and 20 percent, on a declining
basis, for incremental recurrent costs. The projected eight-year schedule of IDA disbursements
(see Annex F) reflects the historical Honduras disbursement profile (for all sectors), which spans
eight years; the profile is adjusted to reflect the best estimate of expected IDA disbursements.
3.23  Special Account.  The Borrower, GOH, would establish a Special Account for the
project in the Central Bank, under conditions satisfactory to IDA, in US currency, with an
authorized allocation of US US$2.0 million and an initial deposit of US$ 0.5 million, equal to
about four months of estimated disbursements. SHCP would manage the Special Account under
established procedures between IDA and the GOH. The SAG would access the Special Account
through SHCP, and would request the account to be replenished monthly (no less frequently than
every 3 months) or whenever one third of the authorized amount has been withdrawn, whichever
occurs first. Withdrawal applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be fully
documented, except for expenditures not subject to prior review by IDA. All replenishment
applications should be accompanied by monthly bank statements of the Special Account, which
have been reconciled by the Borrower. Withdrawal applications for payments to be made outside
the Special Account would be accepted provided that the amount requested is equivalent to at
least 10 percent of the amount advanced to the Special Account (US$50,000).
3.24 Documentation of Expenditures. Disbursements would be made on the basis of full
documentation for all expenditures made under contracts requiring prior review by IDA and
amendments to contracts for consultant services raising the value of such contracts above the
prior review limits. Disbursements against contracts for goods, civil and mapping works under
US$150,000, consultants firms under US$50,000 and individuals under US$20,000; subprojects,



- 26 -
training and incremental recurrent expenditures would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure (SOEs), with the exception of the first two contracts for goods and works.
E. PROJECT REPORTING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
3.25  The SAG would be responsible for the overall project, and the PCU attached to the SAG
would manage the project on a daily basis. Reporting, monitoring and evaluation on each
individual component would be the responsibility of SAG and the AFE-COHDEFOR. In
addition, all project agencies (PR, AFE-COHDEFOR, DICTA, DEC and INA) would submit a
quarterly progress report to the PCU, which would collate reports and prepare an overall progress
report for IDA within one month of the end of the quarter. The PCU would establish a
management information system (MIS) to facilitate monitoring and evaluation (M&E). M&E
would be in the form of quarterly reports prepared by the PCU for the SAG and IDA. M&E
indicators are part of the MIS system. The PCU would complete the MIS design, which would
include periodic reports on impact, and quarterly reports on financial, implementation, and legal
indicators of project progress (based on indicators in Annex G). Financial indicators would
monitor the financial health of the SAG as well as the counterpart funds availability for the project
as per yearly budgeting process. Implementation indicators would monitor the project's progress
and would include institutional strengthening, biodiversity, Upland Fund, a modern registry
system and institutional and human resources capacity established to maintain the system.
Monitoring formats were agreed at negotiations and detailed performance monitoring indicators
have been included in the Project Implementation Letter. In addition, each quarterly report for the
second quarter of each year should include an investment plan for the succeeding calendar year
and summary of actions planned to improve implementation. For the last quarter report for the
third year of the project, an evaluation of progress since project inception should be included.
F. SUPERVISION BY IDA
3.26  The project requires close supervision during the first phase because of the number of pilot
initiatives in the project. Major tools for supervision would be: (a) quarterly reports with M&E
information generated by the MIS (Annex GI, including impact, financial, implementation, and
legal indicators; (b) periodic independent studies; (c) an evaluation of the pilot phase of the
project, expected to be in year 2 of the project; and (d) a mid-term review, expected to be in year
3 of the project. Timing and scope of the mid-term review and pilot phase review were agreed at
negotiations.
3.27  Periodic Independent Studies. During negotiations, IDA would receive assurances that
the Government would carry out periodic independent studies to review aspects of
implementation. Studies would involve: (a) gender concerns; (b) indigenous issues;
(c) representativeness of upland fund proposals; (d) impacts of management plans; (e) efficiency
and equity of land adjudication process; (f) evaluation of maintenance system offolio real; and
(g) forest policy and regulatory issues.
3.28 Mid-Term Review and Pilot Evaluation. During negotiations, IDA received assurances
that the government would complete a review no later than January 31, 2000 and an evaluation of
the pilot components no later than 14 months after credit effectiveness, as a pre-condition to
expansion to non-pilot areas. In addition to the points normally covered in annual reviews, these



- 27 -
reviews would analyze the need to restructure or redesign any aspect of the project. The mid-
term review would also review the following year's work plan, and if necessary, make appropriate
changes to achieve project objectives more efficiently.
4. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS, BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
4.1   The project would have a number of important economic, environmental and social
benefits. First, the land component would enhance land security which, in turn, would contribute
to increased agricultural investment and productivity, greater environmental management and
improved land value. The component would also improve the cartographic base and judicial
system which would permit the Government to properly manage important watershed, forested
and wildlife areas that have environmental values for the nation and the international community.
Second, through the Forest Management subcomponent and Upland Fund, the project would
improve nutrition, food security and the income base of the rural poor by improving crop
production, supporting vegetable production, and promoting new income streams through
forestry. Third, the Natural Resources Management component would lead to improved forest
conservation and management by strengthening the institutional capacity of AFE-COHDEFOR.
This contrasts with donor-funded projects in Honduras that have typically established small
independent executing bodies and avoided the difficult task of reforming bureaucratic structures.
The component would also benefit local communities and residents in forest areas by giving them
greater control over forest management and protection. Fourth, the Biodiversity Conservation
would support self-financing systems for protected areas which would allow these areas to attain
greater financial independence and long-term sustainability.
B. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
4.2   The economic analysis of the proposed project has focused only on the productive
activities included in the Natural Resources Management Component, representing about 50
percent of total project costs, for which reasonable benefit calculations can be made. The other
components (land administration modernization, forest management, institution building etc.) are
not as easily susceptible to cost-benefit analysis. Clearly, however, they are important pre-
conditions to ensuring longer-term investment and avoiding undesirable future social, economic
and environmental costs.
4.3   Land Administration Modernization. Project design operated under a minimum cost
and focused on comparing the financial costs of implementation alternatives. An analysis of the
potential for financial sustainability of the modernized registry system to be put in place by the
project was carried out (see project file: Korczowski, 1996. Sistema del Folio Real Nacionaly
SostenibilidadFinanciera). This demonstrated the conditions (institutional and cost structure)
under which the registry could be financially sustainable, and that the project design aimed at
ensuring those conditions were met. The resulting cost of approximately US$2.85 per ha for
institutional development and for completing the legal land information base for 37 percent of
Honduras' land area (including over 50 percent of the country's production forests) is extremely



- 28 -
low. This is possible because Honduras has significant experience and is relatively better
endowed with existing information and infrastructure than its neighbors.
4.4   Enhancing the legal security of landholders would resolve long-standing tenure conflicts
which have discouraged investment and good management. It would create a more transparent
and efficient land market, and it would provide a mechanism to preserve the value of future
investments in the cadastral and land adjudication processes. It may also in the long run provide
potential lenders with the security necessary to provide credit to landholders engaged in market
agriculture or forestry. A recent University of Maryland study involving a small sample of land
reform beneficiaries with and without legal title estimated that as a group the former enjoy on
average a 5 percent increase in income (IRR 17 percent) as a function of holding legal title.
4.5   Forest Management. Honduras' forests are one of its most valuable economic assets.
The forest management activities proposed in the project would lead to improved management of
this resource (national, ejido and private forests) and, in particular, of the pine forests. The
current status of these forests varies greatly, but in almost all cases, it can be improved through
the application of simple forest management techniques. These forests, without management, are
estimated to produce between 2 and 4 m3 of commercial wood per hectare per year. With a
minimum of management and silvicultural treatments, this could be doubled to between 4 and 8
r3/ha/yr. A recent discussion paper (PRODEPAH, 1996) implies the potential for a ten- to
eighteen-fold increase over 1994 state revenues from stumpage charges in the national forests
dedicated to timber production. In addition, annual export earnings from well-managed industrial
forests have the long-term potential to reach US$200 to US$400 million. Total forest export
earmings from 1990 to 1994 were US$103 million.
4.6   For the purpose of estimating economic benefits to the forest management activities,
several representative forestry and farm models were developed in the economic analysis: one-
hectare models and a 20-year project model. These are presented in detail in Annex HI. The
one-hectare models were found to be both financially and economically viable -- in all cases
because there exists standing timber which can be profitably exploited with relatively low per unit
investments -- the absolute retums to improved management are quite marginal and sensitive to
management costs. Project work would expand and strengthen the current forestry information
and impact monitoring system to ensure that future decision-making is based on sounder
economic criteria than at present.
4.7   In the case of the 20-year project model, the presence of immediately exploitable forests
ensures that even marginally efficient operations can be both financially and economically
attractive. A sensitivity analysis showed that results were very robust. Costs increases and
stumpage value decreases in the order of 50 percent were required to undermine the viability of
all of the scenarios. For the purpose of comparing incremental project costs and benefits, the
"medium" scenario was chosen as the most likely outcome for the without-project comparator.
The medium scenario assumes that the major focus would be on timber extraction from existing
well-stocked forests with the minimum investment in overall forest management. Based on this
comparison, the present value (using a 10 percent discount rate) of the sub-component's
incremental benefits is US$17.6 million, based on an incremental timber production of 3.2 million
cubic meters. The IRR is greater than 50 percent.



- 29 -
4.8   The Upland Fund. This sub-component would provide technical assistance and training
to 6,500 poor rural households for natural forest management, hill-slope agriculture and livestock.
Actual activities under the project would vary considerably depending on community demands,
the location and quality of the producers' land and the technical skills and initiative of the
producers. A set of representative household models of the types of activities proposed, with
estimated costs and returns over time, were prepared to determine financial and economic
viability. The focus of the agricultural models were basic grains (corn, beans, and rice), but
supplemental financial models for livestock (meat and milk) were also developed. A review of a
series of case studies from Honduras provided the basis for estimations.
4.9   A global analysis of the impact of the upland fund was also carried out, based on basic
grain crops and forestry. The main expected interventions from the fund would be:
(a)    agriculture - increased planting density (corn crops), halting burning of fields,
contour cultivation, crop residue management, "green mulch" and contour
vegetative barriers of vetiver;
(b)   forestry - silvicultural treatments (thinning, assisted natural regeneration), pine
forest management/harvesting, and forest protection (fire, encroachment).
4.10  Calculated benefits do not include potential off-site impacts of reduced soil erosion and
un-off. The primary incentives for adoption would be on-site benefits (i.e., increased and more
stable yields, lower inputs, etc.). For forestry, the same forest structure, yield impacts and
incremental production were assumed as in the national forest models. Estimates of deforestation
were developed based on national level data, and the assumed 60 percent reduction with project is
based on Honduras PDBL/CIDA project data. A recent project review found reductions in
deforestation rates of 85 to 90 percent resulting from the provision of forest usufruct instruments
and extension services to community groups. Based on the crop activity models, three farm
models were tested. All of the models were financially viable, suggesting that beneficiaries are
likely to be interested in the adoption of the improved farming measures. The results of this
economic analysis is presented in detail in Annex HI and summarized below in Table 5.
4.11  Biodiversity Protection - The protection of Honduras's national parks and reserves is
essential to: (a) reduce encroachment of agricultural activities and impacts from fire and other
activities; (b) increase visitation, particularly by eco-tourists, in order to increase foreign exchange
income; and (c) improve the protection of the nation's ecology and biodiversity. It is not possible,
with the information currently available in Honduras, to estimate the expected increases in direct
income to the protected area system through construction and operation of modern visitors'
centers and improved road access to the areas; nor the potential increases in tourist income from
persons visiting the country. It is clear, however, from the example of neighboring Costa Rica
and from the possible spill-over from joint (e.g., Central American) eco-tourism efforts, that these
benefits could be substantial.
4.12  Estimates generated during project design suggest that with current practices and the state
maintaining its traditional role, investments of about US$10 million would be required in
equipment and infrastructure with recurrent annual costs of about US$5 million to operate the
system adequately. Project interventions are expected to assist in lowering the State's costs by



- 30 -
assisting in rationalizing priorities and roles of government (national and local), communities,
private sector and NGOs in protected area management. Preliminary estimates show the potential
to reduce state recurrent costs to around US$2.5 to US$3 million per year while generating
income through tourism of between US$1 million and US$1.9 million per year.
Table 4. Summary of Potential Economic Benefits (US$ millions)
Present Value   Net
(10% disc)    Present   Benefit-Cost
Component                         Base   Investment and   Value of    Ratio
Costs   Operation Costs  Benefits
Natural Resources Management       23,086         25,513      n.a.     n.a.
Forest Management                 10,961         14,277    17,571      1.2
Upland Producers' Fund             6,761          6,876      n.a.     n.a.
Extension                      4,221          4,950     9,533      1.9
Research/training              2,540          1,926       n.a.    n.a.
Biodiversity Conservation          5,364          4,360      n.a.     n.a.
Land Administration Modernization  11,785          9,047      n.a.     n.a.
Project Coordination Unit           3,211          2,434      n.a.     n.a.
Total                 38,082         36,994    27,104     n.a.
4.13   Conclusion. As summarized in the table above, 50 percent of project investment funds
going to directly productive investments would produce measurable economic returns necessary
to justify almost 75 percent of the total proposed project costs. The project as designed is a
coherent whole, however, and would result in substantial longer-term benefits in land tenure and
social well-being that have not been factored into the economic evaluation.
C. ENVIRONMENTAL IMACT
4.14 The proposed project has been assigned to EnvironmentalAssessment Category B. An
environmental analysis, was carried out during project preparation and is available as Annex H2
and in the Public Information Center (PIC). The analysis concluded that the present legal and
policy framework for the sector of the AML is adequate to foster a balanced natural resources
strategy for the country and project areas. It identified the following risks: (a) increased or
induced pressures on common and open forests; (b) potentially negative impacts from natural
resources management interventions; (c) the potential that biodiversity conservation and buffer
zone activities could attract population to the areas; and (d) undercapacity of AFE-COHDEFOR
and the SAG to ensure technical soundness of planning and implementation and/or reduced
institutional capacity to address pressures outside the project area. All these risks are addressed
in the design of the project.
4.15  All four project components are designed to improve the environmental management of
forests and to rationalize land use according to equity and efficiency criteria. The Land
Administration Modernization component would register existing rights more systematically and
reliably and would not change existing ownership or land use. More secure tenure should
improve incentives for resources management, given that reforms in agricultural and forestry
policies under the AGSAC have removed disincentives for forestry management on lands of forest
vocation relative to livestock and agriculture. The Natural Resources Management component



- 31 -
would improve management of blocks of public forests and surrounding areas, initiating
conservation activities in priority watersheds as well. Timber and non-timber (primarily resin)
harvesting activities in pine forests would be carried out according to government guidelines for
sustainable forest management, following the system for AFE-COHDEFOR supervision and
auditing of activities. The Protected Areas sub-component and proposed GEF project would
include a consultative process to rationalize the SINAPH and encourage appropriate local
management of areas of biodiversity or environmental value. This would prevent harvesting
activities from being carried out in areas that should be protected. Sub-projects financed through
the Upland Fund may include use of pesticides and fertilizers. The activities would be small-scale,
however, and the technological packages eligible for financing would include soil and water
management, integrated and biological pest management and other environmentally positive
technologies. The increased sustainability of rural livelihoods should lead to improved land and
forest management and reduce incentives for forest conversion. Assurance was given at
negotiations that there is no involuntary resettlement of people from the Protected Areas
envisioned, and that in any event, prior to any required resettlement, the Borrower would prepare
a plan satisfactory to IDA and only implement such plan in accordance with IDA guidelines.
4.16  All natural resources interventions proposed under the project are proven in Honduras.
For management of natural forests, the Honduras forestry sector has received valuable support
from bilateral donors in the development of methodologies. In the period 1988 to 1997 a total of
US$63.7 million of grant funds were programmed for the Honduran forestry sector (AFE-
COHDEFOR, 12/95), mostly into pine forest management and related activities (planning, etc.).
Almost all aspects of forestry (policy, institutional, forest management, and research) have
received and continue to receive attention (in forest management by CIDA, USAID, GTZ, the
Dutch Government and FINNIDA; in protected areas by CIDA, USAID, GTZ, the Netherlands
and WWF; in social forestry by CIDA, GTZ, Norway, and UNDP). From the "best practices"
perspective the project begins with extremely solid foundations. The weak areas relate to existing
capacity for execution of best practice approaches and to overall environmental planning in forest
management. Relevant to the latter, the current approaches to such planning are focused on
individual forest management units without considering them within a landscape and aggregate
impacts between management plans. These weaknesses are specifically dealt with in project
design through training, regional forestry sector enviromnental assessments and technical
assistance inputs
D. PARTICIPATION AND SOCIAL IMACTS
Participation Plan
4.17  A participation plan has been prepared for this project, drawing upon a social assessment
(Annex H3) which paid significant attention to gender and indigenous peoples development. The
social assessment included an analysis of policies and past programs in land administration and
forestry and the impact of these on the poor and vulnerable groups, including women and
indigenous peoples. The participation plan includes five types of initiatives: (a) definition of a
process for incorporating local populations in the design and implementation master plans for the
forestry and protected areas in the project; (b) on-going M&E to shape the process of
participation in land adjudication to be carried out in the pilot areas; (c) training and orientation of
project staff and beneficiaries on indigenous and gender aspects; (d) an IDF for indigenous



- 32 -
capacity building; and (e) design of the Upland Fund to provide access to poor producers and
NGOs through a selection process with transparent criteria and procedures.
Population in the Upland Areas of Honduras and the Project Area
4.18  There are, according to the 1993 agricultural census, 237,863 farm families with less than
10 hectares covering 587,576 hectares of land and 227,642 farms of less than 5 hectares with
384,078 hectares in Honduras. Most of the farmers with less than 5 hectares are found in the
marginal uplands. Families with less than 10 hectares farm 17.6% of all agricultural holdings in
the country, and comprise 54.3% of the population. These small holders produce mainly white
maize, beans, a creole variety sorghum (maicillo), and rice. Maize is produced by 75 % of small-
scale farmers and beans by a third. Sorghum is produced by 52% of farmers in the south and is
used primarily as cattle feed. There is little reliable data on the extent of cattle pasture, but it is
extensive-- 1993 census figures are 1.5 million hectares under pasture while extrapolations from
1991 regional data estimate 2.6 million hectares under pasture. In comparison to other Central
American countries, the cattle expansion phase began later and continued after political conflicts
had checked expansion in neighboring countries.
4.19  Many of the upland farmers cultivate land classified as part of the public forest estate. As
described in Annex B, Land Administration Modernization Component, farmers cultivating lands
classified as public are eligible for title should the land be judged of agricultural vocation. All
other lands are classified as forest vocation and can be cultivated through usufruct, but not titled.
The main forested areas of the north and west are the agricultural frontier. Many of the upland
farmers in this area migrated from poorer regions in the south and east or moved into the hilly
areas after selling their plots to cattle ranchers. Since 1982, Honduras has had an active land
titling program to give title to smallholders settled on agricultural lands within the public estate.
Through this program, 77,000 titles have been given for about 660,000 hectares. In addition,
some cooperatives were given titles, but by 1993 only 993 of these remained with 144,697
hectares, mostly in the valleys. Most of the former cooperative members are seeking individual
titles from INA. The number of farm families still without title is estimated to be around 200,000
of which about one half would not qualify for title since their holding is less than 1 hectare or
classified as urban areas. The first phase of the land administration pilot in 15 municipalities alone
is predicted to identify 6,000 farms eligible for title.
4.20  The small-farmer population in the 14 public forest management field unit boundaries of
the three Departments included in the project area--Yoro, Olancho and San Francisco Moraz6n--
is 14,775 families. These are the majority of families in the project area. While land holding
figures are not available for the upland areas of these Departments, more than 95% of the families
in the rapid rural appraisal communities were small-holders with less than 2.5 has. and the
majority had some land holdings in addition to their homesteads, however marginal. Most did not
have title to their agricultural holdings. Apart from limited mid and larger sized farmers in the
valleys and some uplands of the project Departments, therefore, the large majority of the upland
farmers are small, subsistence farmers with marginal holdings, both in size and quality. The
upland fund would provide support to landed farmers in agriculture and agro-forestry and to
landless residents in municipal or social forestry initiatives on ejido and public lands.



- 33 -
Indigenous Peoples
4.21  Three types of indigenous groups are found in the pilot and protected areas--the Pech,
Xicaque, y Garifunas. The social assessment indicated that there are important traditional forms
of government that should be taken into account in undertaking interventions under these
components. The project would include promotional activities targeted to indigenous peoples in
the project area and special studies to evaluate their special interests and needs prior to
implementation of management plans. Also, recognizing the nascent development of indigenous
political organizations and lack of a clear policy on indigenous peoples and resources management
in public forests, project preparation has included the identification of an IDF grant for indigenous
training and capacity building. The land administration modernization component would initially
be carried out in departments with no indigenous populations. The pilot activities would include
an evaluation of norms and procedures, and prior to expansion of the pilot to other areas, a
special study to evaluate constraints to registration of indigenous land rights under the folio real.
At present indigenous communities have the option of requesting individual or collective land
tenure. One issue identified by indigenous groups is the need to obtain legal status for informal,
first-tier indigenous organizations, for their formal participation in social forestry contracts with
AFE-COHDEFOR and communal land titling.
Gender Issues
4.22  The social assessment identified a number of constraints for women's active participation
in project activities. Forestry and agriculture programs have not reached women farmers and
forest-users, and family income-earning opportunities have no necessarily improved the standard
of living of women in these families. Constraints include the lack of appropriate channeling of
information to women, the lack of avenues for consultation of women on forest management
issues, the lack of appropriate technical packages, and the lack of gender training for the majority
of extension staff in government and non-government agencies. Nonetheless there are trained
personnel in country and some positive models in on-going upland projects that can be used in the
project. While there is no legal constraint on the titling of women landholders, couples without
legal marriage papers (the majority of rural households) are not eligible to apply for joint title.
This issue would be studied by the land agencies and a solution recommended for implementation
in the project.
E. RISKS
4.23  The major risks of the project relate to: (a) its complexity; (b) Government commitment;
and (c) institutional capacity.
4.24 Complexity. The issues involved in reversing the destruction of Honduras' natural
resources are inherently complex. There are no simple solutions. Furthermore, poverty, forest
destruction, soil erosion and lack of tenure are closely interrelated and should be seen as part of
the same problem. Recognizing that, the proposed project attempts to set in motion processes
which will make an impact on all of these elements, but in each case, a very cautious approach
must be taken. The Land Administration Modernization component would attempt to tackle the
most fundamental problem, a lack of modem registry, before any further attempt was made to title
land. It proposes a small pilot in one municipality, expanding to fifteen and then to several



- 34 -
departments, and at each stage the process would be subjected to close review, open debate and
possible redesign. Disbursements under the project would be subject at each stage to full
implementation of agreed actions. The same pilot approach has been applied to the Forest
Management and Biodiversity components. In the former, progress would only be made through
careful participatory approaches involving local planning, and priorities areas for intervention by
the project have been set in accordance with already established COHDEFOR criteria. In the
latter, a gradual approach to modifying the existing SINAPH has been chosen, intensive training
has been included, and a minimum investment proposed for a first phase development of a
financially sustainable park system. The Upland Fund would also take a very cautious approach.
A relatively small amount of money would be committed to it; its regulations and management
would be subject to regular review and potential redesign in the light of experience; and close
consultation would be retained with IDB, in order to maintain consistency with the fund being
financed under the Agricultural Technology Project.
4.25  Government Commitment. There is no guarantee that a suitable fiscal environment will
remain in place throughout the implementation period of the proposed project. Nevertheless,
there are significant factors leading to confidence in the Government's commitment to the
objectives of the project itself. Not least among these is the passage or advanced state of
preparation of six key laws on which the principles of the proposed project are based. These are:
the Municipal Law (1991); the AML (1992); the Property Registry Law (1987); the Environment
Law (1993); the Forest Incentives Law (1993); and the General Law of Public Administration
(still in draft);. Confidence in government commitment is also derived from the project
preparation process itself, which was long and arduous. During that time, there were major shifts
in government thinking, especially with regard to the decentralization of COHDEFOR, and the
integration of the Supreme Court, PR, DEC and INA to make a common effort to modernize the
registry system. These principles are now firmly embedded in the design of the project, and in
undertaking the project the Government would be demonstrating its acceptance of a radically
altered institutional environment than has existed hitherto. At the same time, each major
component of the project carries with it a real prospect of financial sustainability. The built-in
review processes also provide several major check points for modification or even suspension in
the event of weakening commitment.
4.26  Institutional Capacity. The weakness of existing institutions is one of the prime factors
underlying the design of the proposed project, in which a significant proportion of the resources
would be devoted to institutional strengthening at national and local level, to introducing concepts
of participatory planning and decision-making, to training, and to modernization of technical
processes. Key factors leading to confidence in the institutional arrangements are: (a) reliance on
existing institutions, combined with introduction of new processes, as for example in the
decentralization of COHDEFOR and the strengthening of its field offices; (b) increased reliance
on NGO's and the private sector, as would be the case in the management, promotion and
execution of the Upland Fund; (c) creation of a simple PCU with authority derived directly from
the Minister of Agriculture and Livestock and located inside the existing structure of the SAG
(UPEG); (d) mechanisms which specifically aim to unite disparate agencies currently involved in
land administration; and (e) limitation of overall management and spending authority to two
institutions, the PCU and COHDEFOR.



- 35 -
F. SUSTAINABILITY
4.27  The project is intended to consolidate and sustain the institutional reforms that were
initiated under the AGSAC and the AML. The activities identified are a part of the core work
program of the SAG, the PR, and DEC. The land administration modernization strategy has the
support of an inter-agency commission headed by the Supreme Court of Justice. The project
would seek to create government capacity to implement the type of participatory, site-specific
natural resources management interventions that until now have only successfully been carried out
by recruited staff of donor-financed pilot projects. Based on a review of current experience in
the country with decentralized mechanisms for channeling development resources, including the
Honduras Social Investment Fund (FHIS, Cr. 2766), the project would also devolve substantial
planning and implementation responsibility to municipal, non-government and farmer-based
organizations, and foster joint management of public forested and protected areas. Promoting
local responsibility in this way should help sustain project activities. The project coordination unit
in the SAG would receive complementary financing for additional staff under the 1DB-financed
project for DICTA so that the SAG would maintain one PCU for the two complementary
operations.
5. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
A. AGREEMENTS AND ASSURANCES
5.1   Actions already taken.
(a)   establishment of a PPF for the project (see para. 1.12);
(b)   evidence received by IDA of compliance with the AGSAC condition concerning
the decentralization of AFE-COHDEFOR (see para 2.14);
(c)   elaboration of norms for the CONACTA and SNITTA and establishment of these
entities (see para. 2.18);
(d)   preparation of a biodiversity gap analysis as a basis for rationalizing a protected
areas system (see para. 2.21); and
(e)   progress towards establishing a management unit for the project in the SAG (see
para. 3.1)
5.2   Agreement were reached during Negotiations on:
(a)   the process for incorporating communities and forest population in forest and
protected areas management plans (see para 2.14).
(b)   regulations, working procedures and selection criteria for the Upland Fund (see
para 3.6); and



- 36 -
(c)   monitoring indicators and formats for M&E (see para 3.24).
5.3   Assurances were received from the borrower during Negotiations that:
(a)   GOH would ensure adequate budget for incremental protected areas expenses
should the Protected Areas fund not generate the expected revenues (see para
2.25);
(b)   the SAG would maintain adequate staff and/or engage consulting firms with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA to carry out the project (see para
3.2);
(c)   a Participation Agreement would remain in place for the duration of the project as
detailed in Annex A (see para 3.2);
(d)   accounting and auditing arrangements would be as described in Chapter 3 (see
para 3. 10);
(e)   procu-ement arrangements would be as described in Chapter 3 (see paras.
3.11-3.20);
(f)   copies of quarterly reports in an agreed format would be sent to IDA within 30
days of the end of the quarter (see para 3.25);.
(g)   two reviews would be carried out during the life of the project, one evaluation of
pilot components at completion of the first pilot municipality in the land
administration modernization component and one mid-term review at the end of
year three. The Borrower would implement recommendations and action plans
emerging from these reviews and would be obliged to comply with these action
plans in accordance with the terms of the DCA (see para 3.26); and
(h)   no involuntary resettlement of people from Protected Areas is envisioned but if
should such eventuality arise, resettlement would be planned and executed in
accordance with a plan satisfactory to the IDA (see para 4.15).
5.4   Conditions of Effectiveness.
(a)   the PCU will be formally established and staffed with the agreed specialists (para
3.2);
(b)   the Participation Agreement has been signed (see para 3.2); and
(c)   the Subsidiary Agreement has been signed between SAG and AFE-COHDEFOR
(see para 3.4).
5.5   Conditions of Disbursement. Disbursements for the activities related to the expansion
phase of the land administration modernization component would be conditioned on the
satisfactory implementation by the Borrower of the recommendations of the evaluation of the
pilot phase (see para 2. 11).



- 37 -
B. RECOMMENDATION
5.6   The proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 23.5
million (US$34 million) to the Republic of Honduras.






ANNEXES
Annex A:      Institutional Arrangements and Implementation Schedule
Annex B:      Land Administration Modernization Component
Annex C:      Natural Resources Management Component
Institutional Strengthening
Forest Management
Annex D:      Fund for Upland Producers Sub-component
Annex E:      Protected Areas Sub-component
Annex F:      Cost Tables, Financing Plan and Disbursement Schedule
Annex G:      Project Monitoring, Reporting, and Evaluation
Annex H:      Project Analysis
Economic Analysis
Environmental Analysis
Social Assessment and Participation
Annex I:      Project Implementation Detailed Plan (PIP) Contents
Project Brief IDB Agricultural Technology
Annex J:      Documents in Project File



HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PARTICIPATING INSTITUTIONS AND THEIR ROLES
Component            Institution/Agency           Functions
Project              Project Coordinating               Work as liaison between the Bank and the project
Management           Unit (PCU)                         executing agencies; coordinate preparation of progress
reports on the project's components.
*     Facilitate World Bank supervisory missions and follow up
on their recommendations.
*     Advise the executing agencies on preparing terms of
reference, bidding competitions, technical specifications,
contracts and disbursements.
*     Provide overall project management.
*     Facilitate project monitoring and supervision; contract the
independent auditors; follow up on impact and monitoring
indicators and prepare the corresponding reports.
*     Convoke the meetings of the inter-institutional committee
to examine progress and prepare the minutes of the
meetings.
*     Prepare annual plans in conjunction with the executing
agencies.
*     Manage the special project account and keep the project's
accounts.
*     Composed of five contracted professionals: one program
coordinator, one land specialist, one natural resource
specialist, one social/community specialist, and one
specialist in administration, accounting and finance.
Executing Unit of the              Coordinate and supervise field and office work.
Land Administration                Coordinate training for the operations staff.                 e 
Component                         Prepare progress reports for the component.    
Composed chiefly of DEC and INA personnel.
*____ _   Reports to the PCU and the Territorial Committee.



HONDURAS                                                       e
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                wt
PARTICIPATING INSTITUTIONS AND THEIR ROLES (CONTINUED)
Component            Institution/Agency          Functions
Coordinates the participating institutions in each cadastral
Land                                                   area.
Administration                                         Composed of INA (1), COHDEFOR (1), the
(Continistratn                                         municipalities (2), the DEC (1), the UPEG/UPSA (1) and
(Continued)                                            the supervisor of the executing unit.
Territorial Committee             Arbitrate disputes in the municipalities.
DEC                               Carry out and standardize cadastral work in the project
area.
*     Facilitate land awards and input the parcel base land
information system.
*     Manage cadastral infonration for the property register.
*     Establish and disseminate technical standards on the
national level.
*     Control the quality of the private companies providing
services .
National Agrarian                 Administer the land titling program on the regional level.
Institute (INA)                   Train the team promoters.
*     Carry out community promotion in the pilot areas.
*     Deal with the backlog of unresolved cases.
*     Prepare a proposal for treatment of small landholders.
CSJ Advisory Team                 Ensure that the cadastral and registration processes
comply with the legislation.
*     Conduct a study of the geographic coverage of the
.____________ .register in the project area.



HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PARTICIPATING INSTITUTIONS AND THEIR ROLES (CONTINUED)
Component            Institution/Agency           Functions
Prepare a new property registration law.
*     Advise on the design for an information system to capture
the registry survey data.
Land                 UPSAIUPEG                           Follow up on the land administration component.
Administration                                           Coordinate the component's executing agencies; hold
(Continued)                                              meetings with the executing agencies; and prepare
progress reports.
Property Register (will            Reform the registry system by cleaning up the entries in
become the future                  the registry, installing master file and upgrading the
Directorate General of             administrative capacity of the registry system.
Registries under the               Establish the computer center.
CSJ)                               Establish the information system.
*     Coordinate personnel training in legal aspects on the local
and national levels.
AFE-COHDEFOR                       Assign usufruct rights to communities located on public
forested land.
Municipalities                     Assign rigkts of usufruct and privatization of municipal
urban land.
Natural              Planning Department          *      Coordinate and execute project activities for the
Resources            (Forestry Statistics               following components - institutional, information systems,
Component:           Section), Standards and            forest tenancy, and standards and control.                    v
Forest               Control Department,                 Coordinate the activities of the project with the PCU          :
Management           Development and                     (planning).                                                  o
Subcomponent         Extension Department               Prepare terms of reference, bidding competitions,              %
technical specifications, contracts and disbursements for



HONDURAS                                                          e ;
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PARTICIPATING INSTITUTIONS AND THEIR ROLES (CONTINUED)
Component            Institution/Agency            Functions
the natural resources component.
Prepare progress reports.
Natural              Executive Technical                 (COHDEFOR, DICTA, National Forest School) Prepare
Resources             Comrnittee                         terms of reference for forest management research and
Component:                                               monitor execution of the studies.
Forest
Management
Subcomponent
(Continued)
Regional                           Prepare forest inventories and coordinate the preparation
Offices/Management                 of master plans, management plans and operating plans,
Units                              with participation by the local communities.
*     Prepare terms of reference, bidding competitions,
technical specifications and contracts and for the
corresponding activities.
*     Prepare progress reports on the activities.
Upland Fund          Administrative Council              Manage the fund.
Subcomponent                                             Review and approve packages of subprojects.
*     Authorize disbursements.
PCU with DICTA                     Monitor Fund Manager and the Upland Committee.
Contract the private auditors.
Fund Manager                       Perform a technical review of fund proposals.
Evaluate the private service providers and contracts with
producers' groups or communities.



HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PARTICIPATING INSTITUTIONS AND THEIR ROLES (CONTINUED)
Component            Institution/Agency           Functions
Prepare the financial reports of the Upland Committee.
l  *  Supervise the contracts and report any problems in
complying with the agreements to the Committee.
Upland Fund          Private Service                    Provide extension and applied research services.
Subcomponent         Providers
(Continued)
DICTA                             Promote the fund.
l  *  Monitor execution of the activities financed by the fund.
SNITTA Office                     Promote the fund.
AFE-COHDEFOR                      Promote the fund through its regional staff.
Biodiversity         AFE-COHDEFOR -                     Coordinate the activities of the biodiversity component
Conservation         Parks Directorate                  and coordinate with donors and financial institutions.
Subcomponent                                            Prepare a human resources plan and coordinate
recruitment of the personnel necessary to establish the
national parks system.
Prepare a training plan and coordinate the necessary
training.
*     Prepare terms of reference, bidding documents, contracts
and disbursement documentation.                               e
*     Prepare progress reports.
I                                                                                        o >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cm
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                         2 ~~~~~~



d >
HONDURAS
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1997         1998         1999        2000          2001         2002         20
ID  Task Name                                               Start  mQIQ2 Q3Q41QIQ2lQ3tQ4QIQ2Q3Q41Q2Q3Q4QQ2Q3Q41Q2Q3Q4QIQ2
1   LAND ADMINISTRATION COMPONENT                           1/20/97
2      Comiplete Pilot Project preparation                  1/20/97  .
3      Conclude Agreemenlts witi lists. for Pilot Project   I/20/97
4      Stage l: Pilot Project Villa de San Antonio           3/4/97
5          Cadastre and land adjudication                    3/4/97     _       .                         -
6             Establish and maintain LIS                     3/4/97
7                 Establishi tech. stands. for cadastre & mappi  3/4/97
8                 Acquire aid install digital mappinig equipine  3/4/97
9                 Prelimi. Training digital mapping staff   3/12/97
10                Consolide/conivert existing land data     4/24/97
1 1               Update and maiitaini cadastral data       6/17/97
1 2            Cadastre and adjud. Villa de S. Antonio      4/16/97
1 3               Traininig for promoters and cadastral staff  4/16/97
14                Communiity Promotioni                     6/17/97
15                Collect rural graphic and legal data      6/17/97
16                Collect urban graphic and legal data      6/17/97
17                Establishi Land Commission Comayagua      6/17/97
18                Rural and urban land adjudication          7/1/97  I
19                Eval. cadastre and adjudication process   10/9/97
20         Registry sub-component Villa de San Antonio       3/4/97
21             Create/ operate CSJ group tbr Mod. Regist.    3/4/97
22             Establish Registry Database Iifo. System      3/4/97
23             Analysis of Registry legislation and regs.    3/4/97
24      Stage II: Conayagua 14 Municipalites                 9/9/97
25         Cadastre/adjudication 14 munici. Comayagua      12/17/97



HONDURAS
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1997        1998         1999         2000         2001         2002         20
ID  Task Name                                              Start   QI|Q2lQ3lQ41QI|Q2|Q3lQ4lQl|Q2|Q3lQ4 QI|Q2|Q3lQ41QI|Q2|Q3|Q41QIIQ2lQ3lQ4lQlIQ2
26             Velhicle acquisition and maintenance        12/17/97
27             Expand and Mainitaini LIS                   12/17/97
28             Train new personiel                         12/17/97
29             Promotion, Cadastral survey and adjud.        1/5/98
30                Trng in land survey & community promotio   1/5/98  .
31                Conitilluiuity promotioni                 2/9/98
32                Collect rural graphic and legal data      1/5/98
33                Collect urban graphic and legal data      1/5/98
34                Adjudicate rural land                     1/5/98
35                Adjudicate urbani land                     1/5/98
36            Seminars for professionals in related fields  2/18/98
37         Modernize Registry 14 Munic. Comayagua           9/9/97
38            Operate Supreme Court Modern Registry team    1/26/98
39             Operate Registry in Comayagua start up       12/3/97
40             Establish info system 15 munici. Comayagua   2/9/98
41                Comilpile database for Parcel base system  2/9/98
42                Maintaini parcel based system--start up  7/20/98
43             Traiiscribe data from Registry- Siguatepeque  5/4/98
44             Finalize Plan for Registry Inst. Structure   9/9/97
45             Comilplete enactment of Registry law and regs  9/9/97
46         Stage Ill Land Administration Component          8/3/98  .                 v                                              m
47             Stage Ill Cadastre/adjudication              8/3/98  *.
48                Cadastre/adjudication Siguatepeque        8/3/98  . 
49                    LIS operation and mainteniance        8/3/98                                                                                         o  ;.
50                   Coinmuniiiy promotioni                 10/5/98                        -
, . , .. .. . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



HONDURAS
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
o0 N
1997        1998         1999         2000        2001         2002         2      _
ID  Task Name                                             Start   QI|Q2lQ3lQ41QI|Q2|Q3lQ41QI|Q2lQ3|Q4|QIQ2|Q3|Q41QI|Q2|Q3Q41QIQ2lQ3Q4QQ2                A
51                   Coliect rural graphic and legal data  10/5/98
52                   Collect urbani graphic and legal data  1015/98
53                   Form Land Commissioll Siguatepeque    10/5/98
54                   Rural land adjudication               10/7/98
55                   Urban lanid adjudication              10/7/98
56                Cadastre/adjudication Dept. of Olancho   6/25/99
57                   Expand digital mappinig capacity      6/25/99
58                   LIS operation and nainitewianice     6/28/99
59                   Colmillmullity promotioni             8/9/99
60                   Collect rural grapiic an_d legal data  8/9/99 
61                   Collect urban grapihic and legal data  8/9/99
62                   Form Lanid Comimiliission Olanicho    8/6/99
63                   Lanid adjudicationi Olanicho           8/9/99
64                   Rural land Adjudication                8/9/99
65                   Urban land adjudication                8/9/99                                    -
66                Cadastre/adjudication Dept. of Cortes   8/24/00
67                   LIS operation and mainiteniance      8/24/00                                                     -
68                   Comimiliuniity promotion              10/5/00
69                   Collect rural graphic and legal data  10/5/00
70                   Collect urban graphic and legal data  10/5/00
71                   Form Land Commissioni Dept of Cortes    10/5/00  I
72                   Rural land adjudication              10/13/00
73                   Urban land adjudication              10/13/00
74                Cadastre and land adjudication Dept of Y   11/22/00         .
75                   Acquisitions for incrimienital digital mapp   11/22/00                                       -  ,-_



HONDURAS
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1997   L        1998     1999         2000         2001         2002         2
ID  Task Name                      _                       Start   QIQ2|Q3Q4QQ2Q3Q4QQ2Q3Q41QQQ2Q3|Q41QI Q2lQ3lQ41Ql|Q2lQ3|Q41QIQ2
76                   LIS operationi and mainteniance       11/22/00
77                   Comimunity promiotioni                12/13/00
78                   Collect rural graphic and legal data  11/22/00
79                   Collect urban grapliic and rural data  11/22/00
80                   Form Land Conunission Dept of Yoro    11/22/00
81                   Rural land adjudication               11/30/00
82                   Urban land adjudication               11/30/00
83            Stage III: Registry Modernization sub-compo   8/3/98  .                             -
84                Registry of SIGUATEPEQUE                  8/3/98
85                   Establish Registry in Siguatepeque     8/3/98
86                   Operate registry in start up phase     8/4/98
87                   Establish parcel based systemi in Siguate  8/4/98
88                   Train Registry personniel              8/4/98
89                   Comlpile parcel based system database    10/27/98
90                   Maintain parcel based system during sta    5/3/99
91                   Extract data from Registry in Olancho  9/29/98
92                Registry Dept. of OLANCHO [2 branches    6/25/99  .                            _
93                   Establisli Registry in Olanciho [2 brancii   6/25/99
94                   Establish parcel based systemi        6/25/99
95                   Registry Unit I Olancho               6/25/99
96                       Operate Registry Unit #1 in start-up    6/25/99
97                       Traini persoruiel Registry Unit i  6/25/99
98                       Compile parcel based system databa    9/17/99
99                   Registry Unit 2 Olancho               6/25/99  .                                  _                                                   oM
100                      Operate Registry Unit #2 in start-up    6/25/99



HONDURAS                                                                                 5
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                                                                    
_  _  __1997  1998       1999         2000          2001         2002         2        D
ID  Task Name  _Start   Q|Q2|Q3l|Q41Q|Q2|Q3lQ4|QI Q2|Q3|Q4|QI |Q2|Q3|Q41Q- Q2IQ3|Q4 Q  Q2|Q3
101                       Train personinlel Registry Unit 2  6/25/99
102                       Compile parcel based systemii databa    9/17/99
103                   Maiiitaini Registry Units in Olancho   4/26/00
104                   Extract Data from Registries in Cortes a    6/25/99
105                Registry Dept. of CORTES [2 branches]     8/24/00                                                                            _
106                   Establish Registry Units in San Pedro &  8/24/00
107                   Establish parcel based system          8/24/00
108                   Registry Unit San Pedro Sula           8/24/00                                               _ 
109                       Operate Registry Unit San Pedro Su    8/24/00
110                       Train Registry persoiuiel San Pedro    8/24/00
111                       Compile Registry database San Pedr   11/16/00
112                       Mainitaini Registry Unit San Pedro S   11/22/01
113                   Registry Unit Pto. Cortes              8/24/00  I
114                       Operate Registry Unit Pto. Cortes(s    8/24/00                                               -
115                       Train Registry Personunel in Pto. Co    8/24/00
116                       Compile Registry database Pto. Cor   11/16/00
117                       Maintain Registry Unit Pto. Cortes  4/12/01
118                Registry Dept. of YORO (2 branches]      11/22/00                                                 '                         _
119                   Establishi Registry Units in Dept. Yoro [   11/22/00
120                   Establish parcel based systeni in Yoro  1/25/01
121                   Registry Unit #1 Yoro                  1/25/01
122                       Operate Registry Unit I in Yoro sta    1/25/01
123                       Train Registry personiel Registry U    1/25/01
124                       Establish Registry Unit I Yoro     3/22/01                                                         -
125                   Registry Unit #2 Yoro                  1/25/01



HONDURAS
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1997        :1998 :         1999       2000         2001          2002         20
ID  Task Name   ______________                               Start   QIQ2|Q3|Q4|Q1jQ2jQ3jQ4QIlQ2Q3Q4QQ2lQ3|Q41QI|Q2|Q3|Q41QI|Q2|Q3|Q41QItQ2
126                       Operate Registry Unit 2 in Yoro sta    1/25/01
127                       Train Registry personiel Registry U    1/25/01
128                       Establisih Registry Unit 2 Yoro     3/22/01
129                   Maintain Registry Units 1,2 start up pha   10/11/01
130                Central Registry Administration             8/4/98  .                                    I .                                     .
131                    Establishi Central Registry Administratio    8/4/98
132                   Acquisitions                             8/4/98
133                   Establisli Board of Directors and Develo  8/4/98                                               _
134                   Operate Central Registry Adniinistratio  8/4/98
135                   Data Maintenance and TA services       10/27/98
136                       Establish Registry-Cadastre Comput  10127/98
137                       Operate Computinig Center          12/15/98
138                       Training, supplies and Software Ma   12/15/98
139                       Provide TA to all Registry Uniits  12/15/98
140                Plan expansioni of system to rest of territory    8/30/01                                                         -
p 3
(Is



HONDURAS
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1996     I     199T            1998      1     1999            2000            2001            2002
ID  Task Name                                Duration  Q2103 Q4101 IQ2 Q3 0 Q41 IQ2 0Q3  Q41 IQ2 Q3 Q4 01 0Q2 Q3 IQ4I01  Q21 03 la4 Qa  023Q4Q
1  NATURAL RESOURCES COMPONEN                     Id
2   AFE-COHDEFOR's Institutional Dev.           239d
3       Coordination and Logistical Support       Id
4       Create and support coordination comp    108d
s       Equip Region/Maniagemiienit Units       132d
6       Upgrade Regional Unit Bldngs.           I lOd
7   Technical Assistance                       121 8d
8       Assist AFE-COHDEFOR in:                1131d             .I
9           Decenitralizationi & Inst. Manage   740d
10          Promiiotioni anid Exteimsioii       652d
11          Public participationi/consultation  498d
12          Regularizationi of Riglits          435d
13          Enviromimnenial Evaluationi         522d
14          Traininig                           260d.
15          Forestry Research                    120d
16          Forestry Informatioin System        958d             .                                                                               .
17          Forestry Managemilent              i 131d              .-_- _-.
18          Legal                               544d
19          Forestry Statistical System         390d
20          Catalogue of Public Forest Lands    390d
21          Inccntive's Program                  305d
22      Forestry litioriiatioim Systemil        545d
23      Foresiry Statistical System           )1067d
24      Traininig                               1205d                                        . _-.
25   Natural Resources Management                  Id
_25                __---------                                                                                                                     __      ...



HONDURAS
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1996             1997        1    998      1      1999    1        2000    1        2001             2002
tD      Task Name                               Duration  Q| |4!11 |2|Q3|Q4 [Q1 0 Q2 Q3 I Q4 I Q1 I2 Q3 | Q4 I Q1i  Q21 Q3 I Q4  Q    Q2 |Q3 Iq4 Q1     Q2 0 Q3 0 Q4
26   Master Plans                                  719d                 ._
27       Prepare socio-econonfic assessmncits       219d
28       Prepare regionial EIA                      219d
29       Catalog nationial forests                  522d                         _        _       _        _ --.
30       Prepare overall forestry invenitories      567d
31       Iniegrate miaster plans                    393d
32   Management Plans                             1193d
33       Delimllit n ationial forest areas         479d _-.-__-
34       Mark limits and identify forests and T    543d
35       Prepare stand level inventories           100l d                                                                      ---
36       Prepare protectioii plans                lOOOd
37       Prepare silvicultural treatmient plans    IQOOOd            .n.i                                         n       i,
38       Initegrate maniageimenit plans            1044d
39       Performi muniicipal consults              1193d
40       Perform comiiuniity consults              1187d                                                                - - --.
41       Prepare environimiiental impact anialysi   369d
42   Operational Plans                            1131d
43       Inveintory and marking                    11 IOd               i                --- -
44       Prepare protectioni plans                 1023d
45       Prepare silviculture treatmienit plans    1023d                            - - - -
48       Integrate operational plans               1086d                             - ---- -
47   Prodtictive Forest Management                1126d
48       Iniiplecinmmit and supervise protection pl    i 126d
Imipilemilenit andi supervise silvicultural  I 109d       .                             |---3
so       Iinipleikent aiid supervise timber aucti  882d



HONDURAS                                                                                   El E
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                                                                        1  >
1996           1997           1199             1999     ]      2000            2001     ]      2002
ID   Task Name                               Duration  Q2 03 Q4   1 02 03 04 | 01 0 Q0 | Q3 |        Q4 IQ1 0  Q2        I Q34 Q1   2   Q3 04 01 Q  2 Q3 Q4  Q1 02 034 Q3  -
51      Road reliabilitation                     325d
52   Protectiont Forest Managemilenit            424d
53   Forest Managemiienit Research              1109d               .                      - -
64   UPLAND PRODUCER'S FUND                        Id
s5   Preparatory Activities                     123d
56      Establishi Fund Advisory Committee        30d
57      Open Special Account                      20d
59      Setup Fund Tecihical Secretariat          30d
59      Prepare Fund's Regulations/Manual        60d
60      Contract Fund 's adminiistrator           25d
61      Finialize Criteria for Proposals          20d
62   Proposal Financing                        1196d                   V
63      Promnote Fund                           1000d
64      Train service providers, DICTA, and     1021d
65      Evaluate and select proposals           991d
66      Monitor approved contracts              1122d            .                                              -
67      Update Fund criteria based oni moiiito   740d
68 PROTECTED AREAS COMPONENT                       Id
69   Strategy Design                            230d
70      Study self finanicinig cost-benefit       45d
71      Design/agree strategy with CONAPH         43d
72      Prepare regulations for Parks' Fuiid     45d
73   Create Parks' Fund                         145d
74      Design Fund's Counicil                     Id
75      Contr-act Fund Adminiistrator             15d



HONDURAS
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1996            1997            1998             1999             2000           2001             2002
ID   Task Name                                Duration  Q2 Q3 04 01 |Q2 03 04 01 Q2 03 04 01   2                   0QQ3 04 | |2|Q3|Q4 |QI |Q2|Q31|4 01 0|2 03   4
76       Prepare intrastructure and fees plan     128d
77       Capitalization of funds                   25d
78   Institutional Development of DAPVS           154d
79       Prepare personiiel plaa                   42d
80       Openi Regional Offices                    22d
81       Mohilize persoiuhel region/parks          46d
82       Contiact personnel in regions/parks      li ld
83   Park's Management Plans                      370d
84       Prepare plans for the four areas         198d
es       Demiiarcate areas                        261d
86   Create inlrastructure in 4 PAs               956d                .
87       Build trails and visitor centers         696d             .
98       Prepare advertizing materials            956d                                              I
89       Adver tising plan                        956d                                    _i                         i      in 
90      Traininig                                 847d
91   PROJECT COORDINATION                        1430d                                                                                                         _
92       Establish PCU                              Id
93       Design mioniitorinig and evaluation syst  40d
94       Quarterly reporting                     1000d                  ----
9s       Yearly Audits of componienits           1300d                                               _                                        _
96       Periodic evaluation                     1043d 
97      Contracting of inidepenidanit evaluationi    1043d
98   MIDTERM EVALUATION                           302d                                                                                                                     CD. 
99       First niid-teriom evlauation              14d             .
100      Seconid niid-terimi evaluationi           20d             :
. , .. .. ,_                  ._ _                              _ _   _   _   _   _   _   _  _   _   _   _   _   _  _   _   _   _     _   _  _   _   _   _   _   ,   CA.t



Annex B
Page 1 of 10
HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
LAND ADMNSTRATION COMPONENT
INTRODUCTION
1.    This component is designed to improve the legal security of land and forest tenure and to
begin the process of resolving tenure conflicts on forest lands. The objective is to increase
productivity and improve management of the resources while at the same time increasing
environmental protection. The primary means for realizing this objective would be through the
implementation of a legal cadastre and initiation of land adjudication processes in four priority
Departments. Implementation would include systematic development and application of
methodologies, technical practices, institution building and legal/legislative assistance in support
of the Property Registry (PR) Law of 1975 (which mandates that the personal PR be replaced by
afolio real-based system). The component would provide legal security within all land tenure
categories: private, collective, communal, national and ejido. In urban areas and small rural
communities (aldeas and caserios) surveys and legal investigations would be conducted to
provide the respective municipalities with the inputs needed to facilitate proper land adjudication
under the Law of Municipalities.
2.    Implementation would be in two phases, comprising five separate activities. Phase 1
(pilot) would finance: (a) the creation of a pilot land information base; and (b) background
analysis and participatory field adjudication of property rights. Phase 2 (expansion) would
finance: (c) improved registry services in decentralized registry offices; (d) training of the
employees and consultant staff of the federal and municipal institutions involved; and (e) a
catalogue of national and municipal forest areas entered into the PR.
BACKGROUND AND JUSTIFICATION
3.    Land administration is the responsibility of a number of institutions. The Property
Registry (PR), an entity under the control of the Supreme Court, records deeds and transactions;
and INA grants titles to farmers settled on lands legally described as "agricultural vocation" lands.
The Department of Cadastre, an autonomous institute under the Ministry of the Presidency, sets
standards for legal surveys. Municipalities are responsible for maintaining legal cadastres within
their boundaries in return for taxation authority. The National Geography Institute (IGN) sets
mapping standards.
4.    Honduras has been implementing a land titling program since 1982, having granted more
than 77,000 titles to landholders (of which over 20 percent were female farmers) on formerly
public lands. The land reform program, which reached its peak in the mid-1970s, has assigned
land to some 2,555 campesino organizations, of which about 1,400 are still in existence. Data
from 1995 shows that only 395 of the 1,400 hold definitive titles to their land. Demand for titles
has risen sharply with the passage of the Agricultural Modernization Law of 1992 (AML) which



Annex B
Page 2 of 10
reduced the minimum holding size eligible for title to 1 hectare. from the previous 5 hectares; this
minimum size criteria has recently been eliminated for land under coffee production. However, in
the absence of a reliable, systematic registry and cadastral base, past and future titling efforts
might be in vain, because the contribution of titling to overall land security can be rapidly eroded
as use patterns and ownership change, thus negating any long-term benefits from the land titling
programs.
5.    The current registry system is based on maintaining indices of parties participating in real
estate transactions. In effect it is a folio personal or registry of the grantors and the grantees in
land transactions. Such an index has little practical value since it consists solely of lists of names,
the lists being created solely as names are received on a daily basis. Subsequently, there is no
maintenance or updating of the list. The PR Law of 1987 mandates that this folio personal be
replaced by folio real. The folio real is a system based on indices of the land parcels themselves;
which would be a vast improvement over the current system. Physical data related to the parcel
would be registered and would be the base for accessing ownership data. The PR of 1987 is still
to be implemented.
6.    One of the obstacles to modernizing the registry is the poor quality and quantity of
information available. The current system is notorious for its general lack of information and the
unreliability of what does exist. They are three principle factors underlying this situation:
(a)   Parcels are not commonly registered - given the informal nature of tenure, tenancy
and the land market in rural areas, the majority of lands have never been registered,
and any transactions affecting them have by their nature not made them susceptible
to entry into the registry. In the case of national and ejido lands this is
understandable, as it is not the land itself that is in the market, rather the
"improvements" made by the occupant which are being sold.
(b)   Costs of registration - the services of a notary needed to register a transaction can
be a disproportionately large expense, particularly for small landholders in small
transactions.
(c)    Unreliable data - the registry information is actually of little use in many cases as it
is not in any way linked to cadastral data (i.e., the actual size and location of the
parcel). Thus conflicts between the registry's legal description and physical reality
substantially weaken the system's utility. Additionally, the technical system for
administering and maintaining the registry is antiquated and an unacceptable level
of errors occur in the daily data entry.
7.    A further impediment to the implementation of the PR Law of 1987 has been the lack of
sufficiently precise cadastral and juridical information to permit the construction a parcel-based
system. The situation is relatively better in urban areas (where a much lower degree of
uncertainty exists over location and ownership), whereas in rural lands the necessary juridical and
cadastral information simply do not exist. An estimated 75 percent of rural landholders do not
hold dominio pleno (freehold title) to their lands. What census data exists indicates a very high
degree of informal possession of lands, even among those with medium and large agricultural



Annex B
Page 3 of 10
holdings. In numerical terms (vs land area), the vast majority of untitled landholders represent
poor households occupying small family or sub-family holdings in national or ejido lands.
8.   In the past, most land surveys by the DEC had been conducted with the purpose of
identifying landholders who would be eligible for titling by INA, i.e. individuals resident on public
lands apt for agriculture use. For this reason, much of the landscape has been excluded from the
type of analysis that would allow for clearly identifying claims to land in rural aldeas. The public
forest land and so-called "sitiosprivados" have also been excluded, both of which include
complex webs of informal property rights..
9.    The DEC is presently under contract with AFE-COHDEFOR to carry out projects in
areas that largely or completely overlap four departments (those included in the component). The
DEC would update and verify the administrative limits which define national lands (See Bonilla,
Oct. 95, Actualizaci6n De Limites Administrativos y de Sitios en Areas Nacionales) in eight
departments, three of which - Yoro, Cortes and Comayagua - would overlap the component
area. Secondly, the DEC would identify and delimit forest land (tierras de vocaci6n forestal) in
all 18 departments of the country. This work should be concluded in each of the four
departments before the start of activities of the land administration component. Finally, there are
two other titling and cadastral projects, to be funded by USAID and CIDA, respectively, slated to
cover a total of seven municipalities in the Department of Olancho. Hence, the legal cadastre that
would need to be conducted for the purposes of land adjudication and property registration in the
framework of the present component would have a significant wealth of materials at its disposal.
PROJECT AREA
10.   The Departments selected for project coverage are Comayagua, Cortes, Yoro and
Olancho. Selection was based on occurrence of natural resources of economic and environmental
significance and evidence of rural land tenure conflicts in urgent need of resolution, and the
existence of a minimum information base. Cortes and Comayagua were selected as agricultural
zones with as yet unrealized (high) potential for export crop production. Long-standing tenure
problems in lands distributed under the Agrarian Reform in these departments have contributed to
the disappointing performance of the agricultural sector and to a potentially volatile political
situation involving the organized peasant population. Yoro and Olancho, both departments with
extensive priority public forest areas fraught with tenure conflicts, were selected in order to
provide support to the natural resource management component of the project. In total, the four
departments cover 41,441 square kilometers, or about 37 percent of the total land area of the
country. Olancho alone accounts for about 59 percent of the selected area.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
11.   Phase 1 (Pilot): Land Information Base. The methodology and institutional
arrangements for developing a modem land information base would be tested in a single
municipality in the Department of Comayagua. Following a brief evaluation, the program would
expand to the rest of the pilot area, which comprises the 15 municipalities forming the property
registry jurisdiction of Comayagua. The data base for the 15 municipalities would be generated
by a multi-agency team working under the direction of a land commission to be created under the



Annex B
Page 4 of 10
auspices of CODA. The cadastre and adjudication team would evaluate existing documentation
of land rights and carry out a land survey for the purpose of defining the mosaic of parcels
existing within the pilot area. A separate team, under the direction of the Supreme Court (CSJ),
would specialize in activities required to carry out the initial phase of property registry reform.
The system would seek to incorporate all land within the property registry jurisdiction, so that a
comprehensive land informnation base is generated containing all national, municipal, and private
lands. The information would be available to the municipal cadastral office for the purpose of
urban planning and real estate taxation.
12.   Phase 1 (Pilot): Legal Analysis of Information and Adjudication. This would be
carried out in priority forest areas as a key to removing obstacles to forest management and
protection. All interested parties (agencies and communities) would be present at adjudication to
give community witness to the process and thereby reduce conflicts. INA would play a key role
in the promotional campaign, given its installed capacity in this aspect of land administration. The
process would involve: (a) analysis of existing land information in the property registry,
cartographic and photo images and other documentation substantiating the legal claim to
ownership (title deed, proof of purchase, inheritance transfer, etc.); (b) field adjudication of the
parcels, whereby the implementation team (accompanied by all interested parties in the respective
community) would check the situation in situ, arbitrate rights, delineate boundaries, and identify
parcels eligible for titling under INA's rural titling program; (c) a parallel promotional campaign
to allay fears of property occupants, inform residents about the process and temporarily establish
a service to review and record documentation substantiating land claims or land rights,
complementary to the adjudication team's activities.
13.   Phase 2 (Expansion). At the end of the pilot phase, an evaluation would be carried out
by IDA and the Government to measure results and to make recommendations on technical or
institutional changes which would be needed before the program could be expanded. Compliance
with these recommendations would be a condition for implementation of the second phase. The
evaluation would also establish minimum implementation criteria, which would become the
conditions for continuing disbursement in any given municipality. These criteria would include an
agreement with the municipality on the formation of their implementation units, establishment of
local territorial commissions, extent of community participation in land adjudication and
maintenance of key technical standards. These criteria would be established during the pilot phase
evaluation review. A Municipality Agreement would be signed between SAG and each
municipality prior to initiating any activities in that municipality.
14.   Improved PR System. Based on the pilot experience, an improved system of property
registry would be designed and implemented. A "Direccion General de Registros" would be
proposed, to take over responsibility from the current PR and to enforce norms, provide technical
assistance to all registry units, and centralize cadastral mapping functions. The desired
modifications would be proposed and presented to Congress for approval before implementation
of the expansion phase. To support the new system manuals would be prepared on:
(a) procedures and formats for management of the land information base (folio real); (b) software
prototypes for management of the forms and information base; and (c) management of the
transition from the personal registers and the folio real information base.



Annex B
Page 5 of 10
15.   The costs of compiling thefolio real, including surveying, adjudication and registration
would be considered part of the project investment costs and born entirely by the project. In the
initial compilation of PR records positive incentives would be given to landholders in rural and
urban areas to participate. These incentives would be based on municipal land taxes and would be
developed in detail by the project in concert with municipal governments. It would be the
municipalities themselves who would bear the initial burden of providing positive incentives in
anticipation of improved future tax collections.
16.   Training of Registry, Municipal, and Cadastral Staff. The managers and operational
staff of DEC, PR, and INA would need training. Training would be focused on the pilot area to
create a core group of people who would then be able to extend training to a wider group of
technicians and professionals. DEC staff would be trained in management of the cadastral
information being used by the PR, technical norms, and quality control, including development of
guidelines and manuals for private providers of cadastral services. INA staff would be trained in
administration of a simplified process of titling in areas with afolio real, adjudication and conflict
resolution, and community promotion. PR staff at national and branch levels would be trained in
new procedures and the use of new formats for the entry and updating of information regarding
parcels. It is recognized that, given the low salaries in the public sector, it may not be possible to
ensure continuity of personnel. The project would aim at periodic updating of skills, so that, even
as personnel change, there would continue to be a well-trained core of trainers and other
technicians to expand and maintain the system.
17.   Catalogue of Public Forest Lands. In conjunction with AFE-COHDEFOR, PR would
develop a registry of public forest lands and oversee their delimitation and boundary adjudication.
By law, AFE-COHDEFOR is charged with setting up the catalogue, but so far has been unable to
do so because of the confusion over land rights stemming from the lack of juridical and cadastral
information. This process would not seek to modify existing settlement and usufruct of national
forest lands, but to establish the legal boundaries of these blocks of ejido and national forest.
Where communities are settled on national lands of "forest vocation" (not deemed apt for
agricultural use), usufruct rights and management responsibilities would be negotiated within the
context of GOH's policy for regularization of the traditional rights of forest occupants.
Subsequently, those usufruct rights and these management responsibilities would be incorporated
into forest management plans, under the natural resources management component (below).
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
18.   Overall, the PCU and the ad hoc Commission established by CODA (see Annex 1,
Organizational Matrix) at the federal level would coordinate the land administration component.
The component would involve the following entities: (a) an Executing Unit, consisting of staff
from DEC and INA, and answering to the PCU, which would be responsible for carrying out
cadastre and adjudication work at the field level; (b) a Territorial Commission, comprising
representatives of INA, AFE-COHDEFOR, DEC, UPEG, the municipalities and the Executing
Unit, which would be responsible for coordinating participating institutions and arbitrating
conflicts that arise in the municipalities; (c) DEC, which would be responsible for managing
cadastre information, technical quality control of private companies, and establishing technical
norms for cadastre and adjudication; (d) INA, which would administer the titling program at the



Annex B
Page 6 of 10
field level and be responsible for promotional activities at the community level; (e) the CSJ
Advisory Team, which would ensure that cadastre and adjudication are carried out according to
the laws of the country; (f) the PR, which would reform the registration process and establish
information and computer systems; and (g) UPEG, which would oversee the implementation of
the component. The possibility of creating a General Directorate of Registry that combines the
functions of physical and legal property information and registration would be evaluated during
project implementation and might be implemented during the project period. A condition of
effectiveness is the signing of a Participation Agreement between SAG and the other
implementing agencies for this component.
FINANCING
19.   Total base costs for the Pilot Phase activities (Land Information Base and Legal Analysis
of Information and Adjudication) are US$2.06 million of which IDA would finance about 92
percent (US$1.89 million) and GOH about 8 percent (US$. 17 million). Total base costs for the
Post-Pilot Phase are US$9.7 million of which IDA would finance about 78 percent (US$7.6
million) and GOH about 22 percent (US$2.1 million).
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
20.   The cadastral areas used to define the scope of work would conform to the jurisdictions of
the respective PR units. However, the first target area in the Pilot Phase of the component would
be a single municipality, Villa de San Antonio, in the jurisdiction of Comayagua, Comayagua.
There is a total of fifteen municipalities in this jurisdiction. This initial phase would be used to test
and refine the technical proposal for the land survey and data management and the new
institutional arrangements to be put into practice. Following an evaluation of activities in Villa de
San Antonio in Project Year 1, the component would extend its coverage to the remaining
fourteen municipalities.
21.   The Pilot Phase would conclude with the evaluation of the need for new legislation or new
regulations to the existing PR Law of 1987. based on the findings of a evaluation of the pilot
phase to be carried out in Year 2 of the project. The advantage of a new law is that is would
update out-dated technical standards in the existing law and legally validate the new parcel-based
registry system, rendering obsolete the current system. Upon completion of the pilot evaluation,
the component would expand beyond the first fifteen municipalities into the six municipalities that
comprise the jurisdiction of Siguatepeque, Comayagua. Upon conclusion of these activities, the
first department in the country would have been subject to a systematic legal cadastre and the two
PR units in the Department of Comayagua would be providing the full range of services permitted
under the law and its regulations.
22.   Expansion of the component into new departments would be conditional on the
implementation of the pilot evaluation, and subsequently, mid-term review recommendations, i.e.
ensuring an adequate legal framework is in place. Work would begin in Olancho in Project Year
3 and Cort6s and Yoro in Project Year 4. Full implementation in Olancho would require 2.5
years and in Cortes and Yoro would require 2 years (assuming simultaneous implementation
activities in the two departments).



Annex B
Page 7 of 10
23.   Community Promotion. A key element in achieving the objectives set out would be the
parallel implementation of community-level promotional campaigns designed to emphasize direct
contact with the target populations. These would be started in advance of the arrival of field
teams in each municipality. The campaign would give renewed emphasis to women's rights to
receive title through INA. Before passage of the Agricultural Sector Modernization Law women
faced clear discrimination in this regard. Given the historical practice during the Agrarian Reform
and, through 1992, in the titling program, women had a much less than equal chance of obtaining
title to land held by independent family farmers. Beginning with the pilot in Villa de San Antonio,
it would become common practice for women to take part directly in the field work as promoters.
Mechanisms would also be explored to encourage titling of holdings to couples, both of
customary and formal marriages.
24.   Juridical Cadastre. Unlike past efforts, no area or type of property would be excluded
from the cadastre. The goal would be for all parcels defined on the cadastral map to have a
corresponding entry in the PR. The results of the survey and legal investigation corresponding to
each property would be systematically prepared in digital format for final approval by AFE-
COHDEFOR, INA or the respective municipality; or would be used directly by the PR for the
purpose of inscription in the new parcel-based system in the case that nothing more than the
verification of previously adjudicated land was involved (for example, the case of a previously
issued INA or municipal land title).
25.   Land Adjudication. In many cases, the field teams would only have to verify the
validity of legal data already on file and update the spatial data corresponding to the property.
The records corresponding to landholders eligible for titling by INA would be separated from the
data base generated during the field work and transmitted to the regional office of INA for final
approval and authorization of title. The data bases maintained by INA would be updated during
project implementation using the land information system. In urban areas, the cadastre would
supply data in a similar fashion to the respective municipalities. A massive privatization program
in the style of the rural land titling program is not contemplated. In cases where residents
(vecinos) do not have documentary evidence of private ownership or rights of usufruct, the
municipality would simply register the land in its favor and extend usufruct rights to the
possessors. The documentary evidence attesting to one's rights over urban property may or may
not be in the form of a deed and may or may not be registered. Apparently, the vast majority of
residents in the small communities outside of the municipal center do not have a deed (escritura
piTblica). They are much more likely to have a simple private document such as a receipt for
payment for a transaction realized in the informal market This makes the participation of the
assistant mayors (alcaldes auxiliares) important to the success of the project. In the case of
national forest lands, information would be made available to the AFE-COHDEFOR for
subsequent negotiation of usufruct rights and management responsibilities within the context of
GOH's policy for regularization of the traditional rights of forest occupants.
26.   Territorial Commissions. The role of the Territorial Conmmissions that would be formed
in each municipality where the project would be implemented (see para. 18 (b) above) would be to
help ensure that the population is adequately represented in the process of adjudication. The
Commissions would be informal bodies that could hold public hearings about the program, hear



Annex B
Page 8 of 10
complaints, and help conflicting parties come to an extra-legal agreement on property claims and
boundary issues.
27.   Technical Aspects. The principal method for carrying out the cadastre would be a
"medium-accuracy" GPS approach, although GPS units or other instruments capable of yielding
more precise results would be used in the principal urban areas (Comayagua, San Pedro Sula). In
the past, the DEC and INA have employed a photogrammetric approach using orthophotomaps
developed during the late 1970s and early 1980s. Graphical data identified in the orthophoto was
then digitized into a mapping system dating from the early 1980s. This system is still being used
along with the original orthophotomaps which are, of course, based on obsolete aerial
photography (See Brooner, 1995, 1996).
28.   Several factors relating to cost and institutional capacity affected the decision to avoid the
use of digital orthophotos or photo-interpreted vector line maps such that it appears reasonable to
use a more labor intensive and potentially time-consuming approach based on GPS and cadastral
mapping software. The negative aspects of using GPS (without the aid of new aerial photography
and digital orthophotomaps, as has been proposed elsewhere) are somewhat ameliorated by the
existence of a significant store of cadastral maps generated over the past 15 years which would
aid substantially in planning the field work. Secondly, since one of the principal goals is to
facilitate adjudication in the very uncertain rural environment of Honduras, it would in any case be
necessary for a field team to visit virtually every property. In this perspective, the time penalty of
using GPS alone may not prove to be very substantial. Lastly, an approach based on GPS, digital
mapping software, and standard relational data base technology stands a better chance of being
well managed in the present institutional environment. This is especially true given the substantial
reforms being contemplated for the DEC (started under the previous Executive Director) and the
PR. The technology required to produce digital orthophotomaps does not exist in Honduras and
it would add an extra layer of complexity to attempt to acquire and maintain this capacity now.
Nevertheless, an approach based on digital orthophotomaps should not be ruled out under more
stable conditions or for limited purposes sub-contracted to the private sector, such as the eventual
cadastral mapping of the Capital District.
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
29.   The receptivity of the intended beneficiaries of the project would be closely monitored
during the pilot phase. An analysis would be made of the real level of interest of small
landholders in accepting title from INA (keeping in mind factors such as the lack of available
credit and the perceived threat of higher taxes), the level of women's participation, and the real
capacity of the municipalities to benefit from the inputs to be provided them.
30.   The compliance of each institution with the agreements to be concluded before project
implementation would evaluated following the conclusion of activities in Villa de San Antonio, at
least once during the next phase involving the other municipalities in the jurisdiction of
Comayagua, and at the conclusion of the Pilot phase.



Annex B
Page 9 of 10
31.   An evaluation of the technology (GPS/GIS) selected for the cadastral survey and
information management requirements would be conducted immediately upon conclusion of
activities in Villa de San Antonio.
32.   The viability of the component depends on the legal validity of the proposed PR reform
given that the PR is the principal mechanism to sustain long-term land information and legal
property rights.
BENEFrIS AND PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
33.   Benefits. The reform of the PR would provide a mechanism to preserve the value of the
investment required to effect the cadastre and land adjudication process. In addition, several
other benefits should be obtained over the long term: (a) fulfillment of the basic purpose of the PR
(i.e. provision of legal security to landholders); (b) transparency in land markets; (c) provision of
the basic inputs required by municipalities to carry out town planning and implement fiscal policy;
(d) contribution to the efforts of AFE-COHDEFOR and the municipalities to control access to
and use of public forest areas; (e) provision of physical security for the PR data base by using
digital media and multiple back-ups; (f) provision of vastly improved services to the public,
including the potential for remote access to the PR data base.
34.   Project Sustainability. Failure to implement thefolio real throughout the country would
result in two non-compatible systems (current and new) being in effect. To manage this risk, the
project would assist in seeking new financing to complete the cadastre and the transition to a new
PR in the rest of the country. The funds necessary to extend coverage nationally would be
negotiated as early as possible so that the time during which two systems exist in parallel (though
in distinct parts of the country) is minimized. A plan of action for three distinct zones would be
drawn up: (a) Northern Region: Atlantida, Col6n and Gracias a Dios; (b) Central and Southern
Region: Francisco. Morazan, Choluteca, Valle and El Paraiso; and (c) Western Region: La Paz,
Intibuca, Lempira, Santa Barbara, Ocotepeque, and Copan.
35.   Given the limits on the national budget likely to be in effect well into the future, the
financial sustainability of the proposed parcel-based system is an issue. To overcome this
problem, the PR would be given budgetary autonomy and permitted to set reasonable charges for
services. Presently, for example, the charge for obtaining a "certificaci6n integra", which may
take more than a full day to compile manually, is equal to US$0.20. Moreover, the rate of
transactions captured by the system is very low. Statistics for the Department of Comayagua
provided by the local Registrar and the Director of the Municipal Cadastre demonstrate this fact,
as do previous studies conducted by USAID covering other registry units. For the PR to be able
to cover its own costs, including system maintenance and equipment depreciation, several factors
would come into play. First, the pool of users would vastly increase as a result of the cadastre
and adjudication process. Secondly, the productivity of the PR would be improved dramatically
on the basis of the folio real and the appropriate use of computer technology. Thirdly, the tariffs
for registry services would be brought into line with real costs without being made so excessive as
to discourage use of the system. The most widely used services could be made free of charge
(consultations) or priced at a very low rate (certifications); while the formation of new properties,
purchase-sale agreements, debts, and other transactions could be charged at a higher rate. The



Annex B
Page 10 of 10
possibility of allowing remote access and the provision of consolidated data, including cadastral
maps to institutions and municipal governments would also offset costs of operation. A separate
annex presents an illustrative example of the budgetary requirements and potential revenues of a
typical registry unit. Under reasonable assumptions, it appears that even the minimum registry
unit can be viable.
36.   The major disincentive to the participation of rural landholders is that all public rural
property eligible for titling must be mortgaged to the possessor at the so-called cadastral value.
This practice is mandated by the Agrarian Reform Law. Although INA offers the possibility of an
interest free 20-year term of payment, there would likely be a significant group of smaliholders
who would reject participation for this reason. That is to say, there are many smallholders for
whom any cash outlay, without immediately evident benefit, would appear irrational. In addition,
INA has established the practice of charging administrative costs to landholders who participate
in the titling program. (Presently, the rate is 75 lempiras - approximately US$7.00 - per
hectare.) This practice is not mandated by law and would be abandoned in the framework of the
present component.



Annex C
Page 1 of 15
HONDuRAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
FOREST MANAGEMENT SUB-COMPONENT
OBJECTIVES
1. The objectives of the Forest Management Sub-component would be to:
(a) place under management priority areas of national, ejido, and communal forests, including
support to defining the legal limits of public forest lands;
(b) promote the participation of local governments and rural communities in the
management and protection of the national and ejido forests;
(c) implement AFE-COHDEFOR's' decentralization plan (agreed with IDA under the
AGSAC) and develop their operational capacity as a decentralized agency; and
(d) promote forest planning and management among private forest owners.
MAIN ACTMTIES
2. To achieve these objectives the sub-component would target resources to: (a) institutional
development, especially strengthening the capacity of AFE-COHDEFOR at the local level to
manage national forests and respond to community needs; and (b) sustainable forest resources
management, especially building the capacity of local groups and municipalities to manage forest
resources and supporting applied research in natural forest management. These activities would
be executed in stages, and they would build on experiences of a number of pilot projects already
carried out in Honduras (financed inter alia by CIDA, USAID, GTZ, FINNIDA, World Wildlife
Fund, UJNDP and Norwegian aid) The proposed project would aim to cover eleven forest
management blocks (unidades de gesti6n) and 22 priority micro-watersheds within the forest
units. It is expected that the management activities in these forest areas would provide lessons
on expanding the pilot experience to larger areas within the policy guidelines of the AML. The
project experience should in turn influence other donor-assisted initiatives in adjacent forests and
foster more consistency in AFE-COHDEFOR's overall program of decentralization.
3. Institutional Development. In accordance with agreements reached under AGSAC, the
project would finance the decentralization of AFE-COHDEFOR functions to the regions and field
units. This would include: (a) establishment of an in-house training program for AFE-
COHDEFOR staff in natural forest management and administration; (b) logistical support to field
units and regional offices in the form of standardized equipment packages; (c) information
systems to allow for effective decision making and monitoring of natural resources; and
I - Agencia Forestal Del Estado - Corporadi6n Hondurefio para el Desarrollo Forestal



Annex C
Page 2 of 15
(d) technical assistance, related to project implementation and specific critical subjects related to
natural forest management. Priority areas for technical assistance would include: upgrading
administrative systems and procedures (e.g., personnel, budgeting, supervision, development of
operational manuals); usufruct/tenure options and instruments for regularizing rights of forest
occupants and operating a social forestry program; cost/benefit analysis and recommendations for
modifying forest charges and regulatory costs; development of technical norms and regulations;
and implementing an improved environmental system of private and ejido forest regulation for
bureaucratic efficiency and reasonable control.
4. Sustainable Forest Resources Management. The project would support AFE-
COHDEFOR and local communities in forest tenure, regulation and forest management. The
following main areas of assistance would be included: (a) forest tenure and usufruct (clarification
of location and status of national forests and their occupants); (b) forest planning for protection
and management; (c) forest inventory; (d) promotion, participation and public consultation;
(e) forest management; and (f) forest research.
BACKGROUND AND JUSTIFICATION
5. Forests and Deforestation. Estimates of forest cover in Honduras range between 48
percent and 58 percent 2 of the country's total area, making it roughly second (to Nicaragua) in
terms of forest area and percentage forest cover in Central America. Almost 25 percent of the
remaining forest cover of Central America is found in Honduras. Forest types are about evenly
divided between broadleaf forests and coniferous forests. Broadleaf forests include a wide mix of
forest types ranging from lowland tropical rain forests to montane wet forests. Of the broadleaf
forests, lowland tropical forests are the most extensive, probably representing 50 percent of the
total. Reliable estimates on the annual rates of deforestation do not exist; the figure most
commonly quoted is 80.000 ha/yr (low estimate of 62,000 ha/yr) -- the overwhelming majority of
which is occurring in the broadleaf forest zones. The main causes of the deforestation are thought
to be the expansion of subsistence agriculture and cattle ranching in the lowland tropical forest
zones. In the coniferous forests degradation, not deforestation, is the process of interest.
Degradation of the pine forests is thought to be caused primarily by over-exploitation of timber,
high incidence of forest fires, over-grazing of livestock and unmanaged firewood collection. No
reliable estimates of the size of this latter problem exist.
6. Forest Sector Contribution to Economy. The relative contribution of the forest sector to
the Honduran economy has declined steadily during the last 15 years. In absolute terms, however,
the value of the production has remained almost unchanged. In the period between 1975 and
1992 the contribution of forestry to agricultural sector GNP shrank from 14.6 percent to 8.6
percent. During the same period the contribution of the forest industry to the industrial GNP
2 - The latest estimate is from 1990 (COBDEFORIGTZ) which concluded that a total of 5.7 million has of forest existed; 2.9
million ha of broadleaf forest, 2.8 million ha of pine, and 0.052 million ha of mangroves. Should deforestation estimates be
correct that would imply a 1996 forest area on the order of 5.2 million ha.



Annex C
Page 3 of 15
shrank from 10.9 percent to 5.8 percent. Between 1980 and 1993, the annual volume of round
wood extracted by the forest industry was reduced by more than 60 percent to 0.9 million m3/yr.3
7. The potential, however, to increase the economic and employment contribution of the sector
is considered significant. With the reforms under the Agricultural Modernization Law (AML,
1992), macro-conditions exist which increase the potential forestry sector growth. Among the
most important reforms of the AML are: (a) changing the public sector role in national forest
lands from direct intervention in the marketing and harvesting of timber to one of ensuring and
promoting adequate forest management and providing oversight and regulation of forest
management activities; (b) returning state ownership of timber on private and ejido lands to the
legal landholders; and (c) requiring timber from public lands to be sold at auction. These actions
have, inter alia, induced increases in timber prices, so that they are now close to international
market prices.
8. The year the AML went into effect, the sector's contribution to the GNP increased by 5.6
percent. The following year (1993), there were no increases in GNP contribution due to a
declining trend in wood supplied for industrial use. This downward trend continues, complicated
by problems with the operation of the system of public timber auctions, by conflicts between
forest industries and the AFE-COHDEFOR over access to forest resources, and between the
AFE-COHDEFOR and local communities or groups over land tenure and the distribution of
benefits from commercial harvesting. Nevertheless, sustainable production of raw materials
(timber and non-timber), silvicultural activities and forest products-based processing (industrial
and artisanal) are considered to have significant potential for expansion. At the same time, it
should be noted that the extent to which expansion might be possible within a framework of
sustainable forest management 4 is not yet clear
9. Forest Management. Almost no Honduran forests can be said presently to be under
management. Nor is it likely that significant areas of forest could be brought under management
without the removal of several fundamental obstacles. The AGSAC has contributed to removing
two such obstacles through support of the AMIL's (return of forest ownership in private and ejido
lands to land owners and the municipalities; and policies which increased timber values to a level
equivalent with world market prices). The main obstacles remaining are those related to:
(a) tenure conflicts in public forests - lack of definition of the legal limits of national forest lands
and of the rights of national forest land occupants; (b) a distribution of benefits from national
forests which provides little or no incentive for adjacent communities' involvement in
management and conservation of the resource; and (c) technical and institutional inadequacies
making for ineffective promotion of conservation and rational management -- including the lack of
3 - The annual volume of timber accounted for by illegal logging is not included in this estimate as no acceptable estimates
exist; however, based on anecdotal evidence, illegal logging accounts for a large percentage of all timber harvesting. An
estimate of total volume harvested which included illegal volumes could be anywhere from 30% to over 100 percent higher. In
addition, the apparent contradiction between the value of production remaining unchanged and diminishing volume is
explained by rising timber prices. Between 1991 and 1996 pine timber prices rose in real terms by more than 300 percent.
4- Loosely defined as forest exploitation that provides a regular yield of forest products without destroying or radicaly altering
the composition and structure of the forest as a whole.



Annex C
Page 4 of 15
adequate control of illegal logging, forest fire, and expansion of agriculture and illegal settlements
into national forests.
10. Several current activities under the implementation in the AGSAC are providing general
support to improving the macro-conditions for forest management. These include: (a) land use
capability classification to identify lands best suited for forest uses; (b) identification and
establishment of forest management units in national forests; and (c) development of forest
management plans in priority areas of national forests and protected areas. These initiatives are
being carried out by the AFE-COHDEFOR with support from several bilateral donors. GOH
receives significant technical and financial assistance in the forestry sector from bilateral and other
donors. Almost all aspects of forestry (policy, institutional, forest management, and research)
have received and continue receiving attention, i.e., in forest management by CIDA, USAID,
GTZ, Holland and FINNIDA; in protected areas by CIDA, USAID, GTZ, the Netherlands, and
World Wildlife Fund; in social forestry by CIDA, GTZ, Norway, and UNDP. During the period
between 1988 and 1997 a total of US$63.7 million of grant funds were programmed for the
Honduran forestry sector (AFE-COHDEFOR, 12/95).
11. The USAID-financed Proyecto de Desarrollo Forestal (PDF - 1988 to present), FINNIDA-
financed Centro de Manejo, Aprovechamiento y Pequefia Industria Forestal (CEMAPIF - 1992
to present) and CIDA-financed Proyecto de Desarrollo del Bosque Latifoliado (PDBL - 1988 to
present) provide the current technical and experiential basis for expanding forest management in
Honduras. The projects are concerned with:
PDF - management planning and implementation, and sustained yield harvesting for large
scale-pine forest management on public lands
CEMAPIF - development and implementation of a forest management planning methodology
for smaller scale, more detailed operational planning in pine management units of any
size up to about 10,000 hectares, and training courses for professional foresters in the
use of the methodology. The CEMAPIF model is now the official AFE-COHDEFOR
methodology for pine forests.
PDBL - focuses on community-scale management of tropical, moist broadleaf forests and the
development of management planning and sustainable harvesting systems. The
project, which is still in the development and verification stages, has and continues to
make good progress.
12. All of these (and other donor) efforts provide an extremely solid base for advancing forest
management in Honduras. While there are many gaps left to fill, they do provide sufficient
experience, structure and direction to begin the long process of improving management of the
nations forests. A number of donors continue to finance activities aimed at improving the current
models for forest management (e.g., FINNIDA, GTZ). The current challenge for the AFE-
COHDEFOR is to internalize the current level of understanding and begin replicating these
experiences.



Annex C
Page 5 of 15
13. In the next few years the most important areas requiring attention will be: (a) ensuring an
appropriate balance between timber harvesting and conservation on a landscape and forest
management unit scale; (b) integrating the planning objectives and data collection activities (types,
scales, sampling intensities) between the various planning levels 5 in order to avoid duplication and
unnecessary waste of resources on overly detailed sampling and planning; (c) reducing
unnecessary and unproductive administrative and regulatory costs which work as disincentives to
public and private forest management; (d) implementing a timber auction system which provides a
firm timber supply to industry while ensuring equitable access to raw materials to small-scale and
artisanal producers; and (e) developing financially viable and environmentally acceptable
management options in tropical, moist broadleaf forests.
14. Institutional Aspects. Most donor initiatives have been implemented through independent
project mechanisms which set them up as administratively and functionally separate activities from
the AFE-COHDEFOR. Thus overall impact on the institution's capacity to sustain management
activities has been minimized. Recently, as projects are been winding down (US AID), moving
into new phases Canada, or as some new projects have begun (GTZ' s forest management
program in Gualaco), there has been an increasing trend to attempt to integrate the projects into
the workings of the AFE-COHDEFOR. Many of the key personnel and technicians from these
donor-financed initiatives have also transferred back into the AFE-COHDEFOR.
15. As an institution in transition from its previous role as a state corporation for forest
exploitation to a state institution for forest management, the AFE-COHDEFOR can be considered
relatively new. During the last three years the agency has down-sized from over 1,200 staff to a
about 760 and re-structured its staff from 60/40 percent administrative/technical to 60/40
technical/administrative. At the same time, it has been defining itself operationally by establishing
forest management units (FMU) and delegating annual planning and execution responsibilities to
the forest region and FMU levels. Serious attempts have also been made to complete forest
management plans in priority FMUs, to consult with municipal governments and involve
community groups in forest management, and to change the bankrupt public image of the old
COHDEFOR. The institution, however, still faces a number of major challenges. Among the
more serious are:
(a)   its over-large and unfocused institutional mandate - by law the AFE-COHDEFOR is
charged with oversight, regulation and management of almost 90 percent of the
nations land area, which includes forest and non-forest areas and public and private
lands.
5- Current methodology includes 3 level of planning - master planning for the FMU (long term), management planning for
the individual forest stands or blocks identified in the master plan (medium term), and annual operational planning for
execution of management activities within blocks (short terrn).



Annex C
Page 6 of 15
(b)    budgetary process requiring the AFE-COHDEFOR to generate its own income to
cover both overhead and operating expenses and which oblige the agency to focus on
economic and regulatory 6 aspects of forestry to the detriment of broader resource
management and protection roles;
(c)    lack of internal transparency and accountability resulting in part from: (i) job
descriptions and lines of authority being unclear; (ii) high turnover rates in managerial
positions resulting in unstable work priorities and objectives; and (iii) a lack of a
functioning personnel system to reward and punish performance diluting
accountability;
(d)    over-centralization of budgetary and decision-making functions resulting in extreme
bureaucratic delays and loss of initiative at field level;
(e)    low salaries making it difficult for good and motivated people to maintain themselves
in the institution;
(f)    lack of a functioning information system (collection, analysis, presentation, storage
and retrieval) leaving uncertainty over: (i) location, extent and tenure of forests;
(ii) forest resource trends and forest utilization; and (iii) disposition of institutional
resources to respond to identified management needs.
PROJECT AREA
16. Implementation would be phased over three years within eleven priority forest management
units (FMU) located in the Departments of Olancho, Francisco Morazan and Yoro (Table 1).
These units make up a reasonably compact, contiguous zone of forest lands in the north-central
area of the country. Due to the extensive forest resources remaining in them (for the most part
pine forest, with some zones of broadleaf forest in Olanchito and Culmi), these FMUs are of great
importance to local peoples and economies. This is reflected by the number of campesino forestry
groups that exist in the project departments. Based on a 1988 census of agro-forestry
cooperatives in the country, 55 percent of the groups and 75 percent of total membership were in
the projects departments. The extensive pine forests in the project areas are also of great interest
and potential to the national economy.
17. The basic criteria for definition of FMUs is the extent and continuity of forest cover, tenure
(public or private) and land area; FMUs are further sub-categorized (as Type 1, 2 or 3) depending
on the extent and condition of the forests within the unit. Type 1 units are those with the greatest
extensions of intact, contiguous national forest and constitute the top priority areas for forest
management. The organizing and definition of the FMUs (which is still on-going) is consistent
6 In addition to stumpage fees, the AFE-COHDEFOR has put in place an admniistrative/service charges to defray overhead
expenses. Under the current laws which require all proceeds from sales of public goods to be turned over to the Treasury, the
handling of these monies and levying of charges are of dubious legality. They also raise the question of their creating
disincentive to forest management.. .for which there is evidence.



Annex C
Page 7 of 15
with priorities developed under the AGSAC. A total of ten FMUs of Type 1 have been identified,
five of which are receiving support from other donors. The project would begin, inter alia,
implementing forest management plans in the remaining five priority FMUs in year 1 of the
project (Phase I). Based on the pilot evaluation scheduled for Year 2 of the Project,
implementation of forest management plans would begin in six priority Type 2 FMUs (Phase II).
In the first two years of the project only support for management planning and training-related
activities would be provided to these latter six units.
Table 1. Geographic Coverage.
FOREST                                FOREST AREA    TOTALAREA
MANAGEMENT UNIT   DEPARTMENT              (HA.)           (HA.)
PHASE I                                                              I
San Esteban              Olancho                         239,121
Yoro                      Yoro                           217,909
Agua Fria                 Yoro                            82,900
Jocon                     Yoro                           41,816
Olanchito               Atlantida    _                   205,220
PHA SE Il
Morazan 2                 Yoro                           157,600
Catacamas                Olancho                         157,600
Culmi                    Olancho                         157,600
Guaimaca              Fco. Morazan                       123,888
El Porvenir           Fco. Morazan                       105,000
Talanga               Fco. Morazan                       52,970
I TOTAL                                  546,7003             02
' The FMU "Olanchito" is in the Department of Atlantida, but administratively is
attached to the Yoro Forestry Region.
2 As yet no useful (though several conflicting) estimates exist of the total areas of the
Moraza.n, Catacamas, and Culmi FMUs; "project average" sizes were assigned for
purposes of preparation. Somewhat reliable estimates of forest area are available only
for San Esteban, Yoro, Agua Fria, Joc6n, Olanchito, and Talanga. Total forest area was
estimated based on mean percentage forest cover from known areas.
18. From a biodiversity perspective the montane tropical, moist broadleaf forests in the project
area are considered to be bio-regionally outstanding and of high conservation priority on a
regional scale; the lowland tropical, moist broadleaf forests and the mixed pine-oak forests are
considered to be bio-regionally outstanding and of moderate conservation priority on a regional



Annex C
Page 8 of 15
scale.7 Within the project area, the former types of forests are found primarily within the
protected areas system (some remnants might exist outside of the system in private lands) and the
latter types are found to a lesser extent both within and outside of the protected area system. In
broadleaf forest (both tropical and upland) AFE-COHDEFOR management objectives are
primarily conservation-related; where harvesting is permitted it is on a small-scale (non-
industrial), selective cut basis.
19. As with most of the extensive areas of public forest lands which remain in Central America,
the project area lies both near and within the most active zones of in-migration of poor families
(in search of agricultural lands) and of the expansion of livestock. According to various sources,
almost 75 percent of the deforestation between 1962 and 1990 took place within the region
containing the project areas and, almost one-half (48 percent) of the new pasture areas opened
between 1974 and 1993 were in one of the three project departments (Olancho). 8
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
20. The sub-component would finance: (a) institutional strengthening; and (b) sustainable forest
management. Base costs would be US$10.96 million.
21. Institutional Strengthening The direct beneficiary would be the AFE-COHDEFOR. The
main activities would be:
(a)    Training - focused on topics important to natural forest management and necessary
skills for the execution of work programs. A total of 12.6 staff years of formal
training would be provided to 82 persons (33 at FMUs, 24 at Regions, and 25 at HQ)
in four subject areas: technical aspects of forest management (4.5 person years);
administration and management (4.2 person years); communications and extension
(3.1 person years); and forest research (0.8 person years). An additional 2.5 person
years of advanced training for information system management and maintenance
would be provided to six persons, and financial resources for one staff year of in-
service training on-site at the FMUs, thirty national and regional-level workshops,
attendance at fifteen regional and international seminars and workshops, and for
training materials and publications.
(b)   Logistic and Operational Support - providing the minimum requirement of vehicles
and equipment to the project's eleven FMUs and three regional offices in order that
staff might perform their duties in forest management. Provision of equipment and
materials would be based on a standardized package of office equipment (furniture,
computer, printer, photocopier), and field equipment (truck radios, mensuration
After Dinerstein et al 1995. A Conservation Assessment of the Terrestrial Ecoregions ofLatin America and the Caribbean.
World Bank, Washington, DC
s Deforestation figures from Honduras - Forest SectorAnalysis (GTZ, 1994); figures on new pasture from data in Sunderlin
and Rodriguez. 1996. Ganaderia, bosques latifoliados y Ley de Modernizaci6n Agricola en Honduras (CIFOR).



Annex C
Page 9 of 15
equipment, forest fire fighting gear) to each of the FMUs and vehicles (4x4 double
cab pickups and motorcycles) to the FMUs and Regional offices. A small budget for
office rehabilitation would be provided to each FMU. At the central level a minimum
package would be provided for project supervision and administration consisting of
office supplies and three vehicles -- one each to the Depts. of Forest Management,
Norms and Control, and Planning (the latter as the implementation coordinator). All
costs for maintenance (vehicle, office and equipment), office supplies and per diems
for FMU and regional personnel (fifteen days/pp/yr) and national personnel (100
days/department/yr for Forest Management, Extension, and Project Coordination and
265 days/year for supervision by Norms and Control) are included.
(c)   Information Systems - this activity would support the development of information
systems for monitoring forestry resources and the forest sector. Two information
systems would be put in place: a forest information system (US$0.69 million) and
forestry statistics information system (US$0.145 million). The forest information
system would build on the existing system, AFE-COHDEFOR Geographic
Information System (GIS) established in a German funded forest information project
and develop it into a central data bank for the storage, analysis and presentation of
basic forest resource and inventory data, monitoring data (e.g., forest fire), forest
management plans and forest management activities. The investment would provide
equipment and software, develop and institutionalize data collection and entry
systems, and pilot conversion of management and inventory data into digital formats
in the three involved regional offices. About one third of investment costs would be
for purchase of aerial photography and image analysis. The investment in a forestry
statistics system would provide a small amount of office equipment and software, with
the majority of investment resources directed toward developing and institutionalizing
data collection, entry and presentation (dissemination, publications). Costs for office
supplies and maintenance of equipment are included in both information system
investments.
(d)   Technical Assistance- Table 2 provides a summary of the technical assistance to be
provided. Priority areas for technical assistance are those related to: (i) upgrading
administrative systems and procedures (e.g., personnel, budgeting, supervision,
development of operational manuals); (ii) integration of environmental impact
assessments and follow-up into regional and FMU forest management planning and
implementation; (iii) operational alternatives and usufruct/ten instruments for the
regularization of the rights of forest occupants and for the Social Forestry program;
(iv) community participation and public consultation; (v) cost/benefit analysis and
recommendation development for improving the current forest charges and regulatory
costs framework to make forest management more competitive with alternative land
uses (e.g., livestock); (vi) development and application of technical norms and
regulations which provide adequate resource protection without creating disincentives
to forest management; and (vii) refining and implementing an improved system of
environmental forest regulation in private and ejido forests, which is both
bureaucratically efficient and provides a reasonable level of control.



Annex C
Page 10 of 15
Table 2. Technical Assistance Requirements for Institutional Strengthening
CONSULTANT MONTHS
CONSULTANCY                                                     NATIONAL   INTERNATIONAL
Administrative systems and procedures                                     30                         16
..... .............................. .. . ....................... ......................................................................................................................................... 
Forestr  information system                                               40 
.......................................................................................................................................................................................................l
For    et!  ~                                  y3xesinado0 c.t.ios........................ .......... ... 2...... ................l.
Forexte*~nsion and communications                                     1
Enviromnental impact assessment and                                        9                         3
...................................................................................................................................................................................................... l
Biolo,gist                                                                 9I
......... .............................................................................................................9....................................................................... l
..... ..........I........................................................................................................................................................................................ 
Community participation and public                                         8
......................................................... ................................................ ........................... .....................................................................
Fo        sre   statitic.8
I.................   .........................8l
Public forest lands catalogue                                              6                         2l
Regu.atory.disincentives                                                   6I
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..................................................................................................  
Training.6
............... ................................. .. ....... .............................................................................................................................................l
Legal                                                                      3
Total             181                        31
22. Sustainable Forest Management. The direct beneficiaries of the sustainable management
of forest resources activities would be the AFE-COHDEFOR and, in the project areas, the
involved municipalities, rural communities, local groups (e.g. agro-forestry cooperatives), forest
occupants and forest and timber industry. The objectives of the proposed activities are, in eleven
priority FMUs, to: (a) identify and demarcate the legal limits of national forest lands; (b) initiate
and support the process of regularization of traditional rights of forest occupants in national
forest lands; (c) involve affected groups, communities, municipalities and private business in the
management planning process and in the management of forests resources; (d) initiate the
implementation of the forest management plans through a decentralized AFE-COHDEFOR in
cooperation with relevant local actors; (e) increase the level of protection and productivity of the
forests through implementation of silvicultural activities (in production areas), control of forest
fires and increased forest vigilance; (f) improve the quality of the life of poor occupants and users
of public forests (national and ejido) by involving them in forest resource management activities
and direct benefit sharing; and (g) establish a stable flow of forest products (primarily timber)
from managed areas of pine production forest which is accessible by both small and large
processors.
23. The main activities in this area would be:
(a)    Forest Tenure and Usufruct. The objective would be to clarify the location and
status (legal and customary usage) of national forest lands and their occupants.



Annex C
Page 11 of 15
Investments would consist of: (i) mounting and maintaining a permanent database
(Catailogo de Patrimonio Forestal Inalienable) of all legal information on the official
limits of national forest lands, holdings and tenure status (forest and land); (ii) a
census of national forests occupants (eleven FMUs) plus participatory rural
diagnostics to verify census accuracy and identify length of occupancy, traditional
uses and perceptions of rights held by forest occupants; (iii) regularization of the
traditional rights of occupants of national forest lands, including mechanisms for
negotiation and conflict resolution; and (iv) delimitation and demarcation of 1,400 km
of national forest boundaries.
(b)   Forest Planning. The project would finance planning for forest protection and
management within the 11 project FMUs, including: (i) environmental impact
assessments and protection plans for approximately 545,000 ha; and (ii) silvicultural
treatment plans for approximately 120,000 ha.
(c)   Forest Inventory. In production pine forests, the project would finance: (i) FMU-
level forest inventories for approximately 300,000 ha; (ii) stand-level inventories for
approximately 150,000 ha; and (iii) annual operating plan inventory and marking
activities (for silvicultural treatments and harvesting) for approximately 150,000 ha.
(d)   Promotion, Participation, and Public Consultation. The project would aim for
transparency in state decision-making regarding public forest lands. Investments for
this purpose would consist of: (i) dissemination of information on public forest
management objectives, plans and activities in public forests; (ii) public seminars (85
total) on topics of importance to communities, municipalities, industry and private
forest owners regarding legal, environmental, social and technical aspects of forest
resources management; (iii) public awareness campaigns on forest fire, illegal logging
and private forest management options; (iv) municipal-level public consultations (25
total) on forest management plans; and (v) community-level public consultations (60
total) on forest management plans and annual operating plans.
(e)    Forest Management. The project would finance: (i) forest fire control (including a
system of fire watch towers) for approximately 545,000 ha; (ii) forest vigilance for
approximately 545,000 ha; (iii) silvicultural treatments for approximately 120,000 ha;
(iv) implementation of timber auction plans for approximately 30,000 ha; (v)
implementation of protection plans in 7 protected areas; and (vi) forest road
improvements/rehabilitation on 45 km of forest roads.
(f)    Forest Research would include data collection, analysis and presentation of findings
from permanent sample plots in support of upgrading technical prescriptions for
sustainable harvesting of forest products.



Annex C
Page 12 of 15
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
24. The Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock (SAG), through the Project Coordinating Unit
(PCU), would be responsible for ensuring that the implementation and expenditures under the
sub-component were consistent with the IDA credit agreement. Details of the PCU and AFE-
COHDEFOR responsibilities are contained in Project Operations Manual (Manual de Operaciones
para la Ejecuci6n del Proyecto de Administracion de Areas Rurales) which can be found in the
project files (Annex I). A Subsidiary Agreement would be signed prior to credit effectiveness
between SAF and AFE-COHDEFOR regarding the respective roles and responsibilities of these
two entities. A description of PCU responsibilities are contained in the main text (para. 3.2).
25. The AFE-COHDEFOR would be responsible for the following:
(a)   Overall Implementation - The Manager of AFE-COHDEFOR would be responsible
for all aspects of project implementation. The Department of Planning within AFE-
COHDEFOR would be responsible for coordination of project activities and would
act as the PCU counterpart. This Department would operate under similar terms of
reference to those of the PCU (e.g., review budgetary plans, monitor budgetary
resources, supervise disbursement, procurement of goods and services, and audits,
etc.) in fulfilling IDA and credit agreement requirements.
(b)   Training - the Department of Promotion and Extension (DP&E) is responsible for the
institution's overall training program. DP&E would be responsible for developing
terms of reference for technical assistance in finalizing the training program and for
supervising it. DP&E would coordinate with the other concerned departments in
identifying priorities and content of the training program. The Regional Offices
would be responsible, in conjunction with DP&E, for scheduling training activities
and ensuring the participation of regional personnel.
(c)   Logistical and Operational Support - the Department of Planning (DP) would be
responsible for procuring goods and services to be obtained through local competitive
bidding or local shopping. DP would be responsible for ensuring that all procured
goods were assigned to the units for which they were intended and properly
maintained (including the keeping of trip logs for all project vehicles). DP would be
responsible for assigning adequate budgetary resources for per diems, office supplies,
equipment maintenance and forest management activities through the annual
budgeting process. Regional offices would be responsible for ensuring the
appropriate use and maintenance of all project procured vehicles and equipment.
(d)   Information Systems - the final institutional location of the Information Systems in
AFE-COHDEFOR is still in doubt. Until this issue is resolved, no disbursements
would be made for the implementation of these systems. In the implementation plan
no activities are scheduled until Year 2, other than upgrading the offices in which the
system will be physically located (for which the DP would be responsible). The
Department ultimately charged with responsibility for operating the system would also



Annex C
Page 13 of 15
be responsible for implementing the activities -- developing terms of reference, hiring
of consultants, etc. All procurement of goods would be through the DP or the PCU
(depending on procurement type and amounts). The Regional Offices would be
responsible for integrating into the FMU and Regional work programs the required
data collection activities. In addition, they would be responsible for quality control
and supervision of data collection and ensuring its timely transmittal to the
implementing Department.
(e)   Technical Assistance - the DP would have overall responsibility for assigning the
technical assistance budget and contracting consultants. In the case of individual
consultants, the concerned Departments would develop terms of reference, participate
with the DP in consultant selection and would supervise consultant work, and final
acceptance of outputs. The DP would review terms of reference and ensure their
consistency with legal agreements and project objectives. For technical assistance
which deals with institution-wide issues and policies (i.e. administrative systems and
procedures, forest tenure and usufruct, and community participation and public
consultation), the DP would be responsible for coordinating and integrating the
technical assistance outputs with all relevant departments.
(f)   Forest Tenure and Usufruct - the office of the Catilogo de Patrimonio Forestal
Inalienable (CDPFI - with the Legal Office, attached to the Office of the Manager of
the AFE-COHDEFOR) would be responsible for seeing that all legal definition of
national forest lands stemming from (DEC) national forest delimitation activities and
the forest management planning process are entered into and accessible from the
Infornation System. The CDPFI would also be responsible for ensuring legality and
quality of delimitation activities; they would develop termns of reference and
agreements with the DEC over the actual implementation of delimitation activities.
Subsequently, Regional Offices would be responsible for seeing that the legal
boundaries are physically demarcated. All other activities related to contracting of the
census of forest occupants, participatory diagnostics, and related technical assistance
inputs (e.g., on forest tenure and usufruct) would be the responsibility of the DP in
coordination with the Department of Norms and Control (DN&C). Supervision of
the implementation of the consultancies and follow up would be through the DN&C,
who would also ensure that the information generated was provided to the CDPFI for
inclusion in the database. The Regional Office's social promoters would participate
directly in all census and diagnostics and would be the counterparts of consultants
working on forest tenure and usufruct issues.
(g)   Forest Planning, Inventory, and Management - the Department of Forest Management
(DFM) has overall responsibility for the implementation of all these activities. They
would be responsible for reviewing and approving all annual work plans developed by
the Regional Offices and supervising their implementation. The DN&C would be
responsible for environmental impact assessment and for ensuring that its outputs
were integrated into the forest management plans; they would also serve an
independent audit function to monitor compliance with all relevant technical and



Annex C
Page 14 of 15
environmental norms as well as general compliance with the management planning
framework. The Regional Offices would be responsible for overall quality control and
supervision of implementation activities and contracts at the FMUs. They would: (i)
develop the annual work plans and budgets for the region; (ii) be responsible for
preparing terms of reference, contracting and implementing stand-level and annual
operating plans and silvicultural treatment contracts up to a ceiling of US$20,000 9;
(iii) implementation of forest fire protection, forest vigilance and timber auction plans;
(iv) supervision and reporting; (v) development and approval of the FMU work
programs; (vi) fulfilling all reporting requirements both for the functioning of the
forestry information and statistics system as well as for meeting project supervision
requirements; (vii) coordinating with the relevant central departments in developing
terms of reference and supervising contracts for activities which exceed their
budgetary ceiling; (viii) coordinating with the relevant central departments in
implementing environmental assessments and forest master plans. The Forest
Management Unit personnel would be responsible for developing annual work plans
for submission to the Regional offices. FMU personnel would participate in and
supervise all activities and contracts for forest management planning, implementation,
and data collection. The FMU would also fulfill reporting requirements both for the
functioning of the forestry information and statistics system as well as for meeting
project supervision requirements.
(h)   Participation, Promotion and Public Consultation - The DFM would be responsible
for ensuring that overall implementation of these activities took place as an integral,
and required, part of the Forest Management planning and implementation process.
Implementation would be the responsibility of the DP&E through the social
promoters at the Regional Offices for participation/public consultation, and the
central office for public information campaigns (e.g. forest management for private
forest owners, forest fire, etc.). The Regional Offices would be responsible for
organizing and implementing municipal and community-level participation and
consultation process in planning and implementation activities with the participation
of central DP&E personnel.
(i)    Research - the DFM, as the Department responsible for the permanent sample plot
system, would be responsible for the implementation of these activities.
See Fund For Upland Producer's, Institutional Arrangements, Paras 20, 29ifor role of AFE-
COHDEFOR in promotion and supervision of municipal and community forest resource
management activities.
FINANcING
26. The World Bank would finance works, goods, consultant services, and training as specified in
the Development Credit Agreement. The Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock (SAG) and the
9 At mid-tenn review all assigned responsibilities will be assessed and budgetary ceilings and responsibilities adjusted as
necessary.



Annex C
Page 15 of 15
AFE-COHDEFOR will be responsible to maintain the budget for all recurrent and operating costs
after the end of the project period.
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
27. The sub-component would be executed in two phases. In the first phase, investments in
actual forest management activities would be excluded in the six Type 2 FMUs; forest
management activities would only be financed in the five Type 1 FMUs. All other investment
activities (e.g., institutional strengthening, forest inventory, planning, etc.) would be carried out in
all 11 FMUs, 3 Regional Offices, and at the central level. Phase 2 of the project would begin after
the pilot evaluation (Year 2). Conditioned on status of implementation in Phase 1, investment in
forest management activities would be extended into the remaining six Type 2 FMUs. Progress
would be again evaluated at the time of the mid-term review and continued disbursements against
this sub-component conditioned on the implementation of the critical actions indicated in the joint
action plan resulting from that review.
28. During Phase 1:
(a)   first priority would be given to: (i) project coordination; (ii) developing terms of
reference and initiating technical assistance in key thematic areas (administrative
systems and procedures, environmental impact assessment and monitoring, forest
tenure and usufruct, forestry extension and communications, training, and community
participation and public consultation); (iii) training; (iv) census of forest occupants
and participatory diagnostics; (v) establishment of the Catalogo de Patromonio
Forestal in the first year of the project; (vi) public consultations and participatory
planning; and (vii) procurement of vehicles and equipment for Regional Offices and
FMUs;
(b)   second priority would be given: (i) developing terms of reference and starting
technical assistance in the remaining thematic areas; and (ii) forest inventories and
planning;
(c)   third priority would be given to: (i) executing forest management plans; (ii) research;
and (iii) information systems.
29. In each FMU the logical sequence for forest management would consist of: (a) clarifying the
situation on forest tenure, traditional rights of forest occupants and initial consultation with
affected groups; (b) forest planning including participation and consultation with relevant local
actors; and (c) forest management.



Annex D
Page 1 of 13
HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
UPLAND PRODUCERS FUND
INTRODUCTION
I.    The Upland Producers' Fund objectives would be: (a) to reduce the environmental
degradation of forest and soil resources in upland areas; (b) to improve the incomes and well-
being of poor, upland farming households; and (c) to establish a long-term financing mechanism
through which GOH can channel resources for extension and training assistance to such
households. To meet these objectives, it would finance: technical assistance and training for
upland farmers and to Municipalities; applied research in support of agriculture, livestock and
natural forest management for upland areas; and training of natural resources professionals who
provide technical services to upland farmers.
2.    The fund is justified because of the lack of GOH extension services to marginal upland
farmers and forestry groups, particularly women; the inseparable links between poverty, hillside
agriculture and forest degradation in upland areas; the overwhelming need to arrest soil
degradation and stabilize food production to ensure basic food security for hillside farming
households; and the continued environmental degradation caused by poor resource management
practices which is manifested in deforestation, accelerated soil erosion and overgrazing. This
annex describes the Upland Producers Fund, including: (a) activities to be financed; (b) clients of
the fund; (c) institutional arrangements to implement the fund; and (d) gender strategy.
BACKGROUND AND JUSTIFICATION
3 .    According to the National Agricultural Census (1994), almost 250,000 of the nation's
320,000 farmers are subsistence producers, defined as producers with 5 ha or less of arable land
who do not have salaried employment. This group, which comprises over 75 percent of the
nation's farmers, occupies an average of 2.4 ha/household 1 and is for the most part occupying
hillside state lands. In many instances these households' production systems are closely linked to
forested areas, e.g. as a source of fuel, secondary food products, grazing/fodder, soil nutrients.
4.    The 1992 Agricultural Modernization Law (AML) created a new legal framework for the
state's provision of technology transfer and generation services. Under the new law these
services are to be substantially privatized with a "farmer pays" approach. As an exception to this,
services to poor smallholders on marginal lands would be provided by state financing. The same
I - The average figure of 2.4 ha/household gives an overly optimistic view of land distribution within this demographic group
as defined in the Agricultural Census. Some 25 percent of Honduras' rural population (1995 estimate of 3.1 million) are
reported to reside in households with no land or less than 1 manzana (approx. 0.7 ha) of land.



Annex D
Page 2 of 13
law created the Directorate for Agricultural Science and Technology (DICTA) under the
Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock (SAG) with a mandate to design, direct, and execute
agricultural research and extension programs based on a rational balance between state-provided
services and services provided by existing private entities. The mandate also extended to the
creation and operation of such private service provision entities.
5.    The history of state technical services to poor smallholders on marginal lands is sparse.
With the exception of the recent USAID-financed LUPE project, which operated in 8
departments and cooperated with 42 extension agencies, GOH has had little direct involvement in
programs targeted to such farmers. Nor has GOH used its own resources to provide services to
this sector. The overwhelming majority of state funding in agricultural services has been directed
towards "farmers with potential", i.e. those on the best lands. By contrast, Honduras has had one
of the most progressive and successful NGO-based experiences in service provision to poor
smallholders on marginal lands, the most notable examples of which have been the works of
World Neighbors, COSECHA, and the Loma Linda Training Center. During the last 25 years,
Honduran NGOs working with smallholders have developed effective extension methodologies
and production techniques which show good potential for widespread application, replicability
and adoption. Based on anecdotal evidence and a growing body of quantitative evidence from the
LUPE project and other researchers, the production techniques appear to be quite promising from
income and environmental perspectives. The LUPE project was an attempt to scale up the NGO
experience and was successful in developing an excellent technical menu which is being adopted
and adapted by other programs and which provides a solid basis for large-scale diffusion to
hillside farmers.
6.    The situation with forestry extension for poor smallholders has been worse than that with
agriculture. The main entity charged with providing extension services, the AFE-COHDEFOR,
literally has no capacity or budget to do so. Some limited services have been provided to
organized forestry groups and a few communities through producer cooperatives and federations,
NGOs and bi-lateral programs. The numerous resin-tappers' cooperatives have received the bulk
of state resources directed toward forestry activities. A number of forest management projects
(some bi-laterally financed) have been working with communities in recent years in developing
environmentally acceptable, financially-viable forest management systems. In the pine forests
these efforts are much more mature. The most notable experiences with forestry and forest
management have been those developed through the PACO/CARE project (agro-forestry), the
CIDA-financed Broadleaf Forest Management Project with both natural forest management and
agricultural production assistance, and the GTZ and FINNIDA-financed community forest
management initiatives in the pine forests. In Honduras there is no lack of professional foresters
in the private sector who might provide services to communities in pine forest management. In
the project departments alone there reside over 80 foresters registered with the College of
Professional Foresters. For tropical broadleaf forests, on the other hand, there are few foresters
with any experience of note. The only exception to this are those relatively few foresters who
gained experience through the CIDA-financed project.
7.    An overarching weakness both for provision of forestry and agricultural services to
smallholders and poor communities is the lack of research capacity to backstop extension



Annex D
Page 3 of 13
activities. GOH, through the SAG, has no facilities to work on issues of resource management
relevant to smallholders. The Pan-American School of Agriculture at Zamorano, a pre-eminent
institution in Latin America for the education of agronomists, is not particularly strong in marginal
land smallholder systems relative to their capacity in more conventional agriculture. In forestry,
the main entities are CURLA and the National Forestry School (ESNACIFOR). The former is
starved of resources, while the latter has relatively good access to resources and external
assistance. Both CURLA and ESNACIFOR enjoy good reputations nationally, within the
resources that they command. In addition, ESNACIFOR is an institution of regional importance
as a trainer of forestry students. Currently, ESNACIFOR offers a "Dasonomia" as a terminal
degree; roughly equivalent to an Associates degree, one step below a Bachelors degree. The
major difference between the two is that a Dasonomo's studies have concentrated on technical
aspects of forestry rather than a broader (and longer) Bachelor's curriculum. CURLA offers a
University degree in forestry and ESNACIFOR is now developing that capacity. In the area of
research in natural forest management both ESNACIFOR and CURLA are weak. ESNACIFOR's
research capacity is as yet incipient and the bulk of what exists is not focused on natural forest
management. CURLA has developed some research capacity in support of its teaching activities
in broadleaf forest management.
PROJECT AREA
8.    The fund would give priority coverage to those areas within the Forest Management Units
(FMUs) supported by the Forest Management Sub-component (see Annex C.). These are located
in the Departments of Francisco Morazan (Guaimaca, El Porvenir, and Talanga); Olancho (San
Esteban, Catacamas, and Culmi); and Yoro (Agua Fria, Joc6n, Morazan, Olanchito, Yoro). In
addition to these areas, on a secondary priority basis, financing would be extended to eligible
communities in environmentally sensitive zones (i.e., protected area buffer zones, and critical
upper watershed areas) in the neighboring FMUs of Gualaco, Olancho and of Bonito Oriental and
Sabi in Atlantida. The justification for extending the coverage beyond areas directly supported by
the Forest Management Sub-component is: (a) these FMUs are either within (Gualaco) or
contiguous to (Bonito Oriental and Sabi) the project area and constitute high priority forest
management areas; (b) administratively, they all fall under Regional Offices included in the
project; (c) Gualaco contains two high priority protected areas (Pico Pijol y Vertiente
Occidental); and (c) Bonito Oriental and Saba are zones of humid tropical forest where
conversion pressures for agricultural usage are high and minor project investments in forest
tenure-related activities and agricultural extension are proven (under the CIDA-financed PDBL)
to be highly effective in significantly reducing deforestation pressures.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
9.    The Upland Producers' Fund would have a base cost of US$7.04 million. It would
provide financing the following: (a) technical assistance and training for upland farmers in
sustainable forestry, agriculture and livestock practices and to municipalities in micro-watershed
management; (b) continuing education opportunities to natural resources professionals who
provide technical services to upland farmers; (c) applied research to generate improved



Annex D
Page 4 of 13
technologies in agriculture, livestock and natural forest management for upland areas; and
(d) establishment and implementation of a fund mechanism for directing extension and training
resources to upland farmers under GOH policy direction.
10.   Fund Clients. Clients of the fund would be: (a) groups of smallholders on marginal lands
(terreno de vocaci6n forestal) with a need to adopt sustainable production systems, with priority
given to groups that have not achieved food security at the household level; (b) communities
(indigenous tribes, aldeas, caserios, etc.) and local or grassroots organizations (e.g. agro-forestry
cooperatives, formal/informal farmer groups, women's groups, etc.) with the need for assistance
to manage areas of natural forest on national lands (under the Social Forestry program), ejido
lands 2, or communal forest lands; (c) communities responsible for managing designated micro-
watersheds for potable water production; and (d) for research funds, members of SNITTA.
Table 1. Fund Clients
ACTivITY                          BENEFICLARIES/CLIENTS
Technology transfer for smallholder      4,000 families would benefit directly; an
production systems in marginal lands.    estimated 10,000 additional families would
indirectly benefit.
Natural forest management.               2,500 families and 175 organizations would
directly benefit; an estimated 4,000
additional families would benefit indirectly.
Micro-watershed management               22 municipalities and about 60 communities
would benefit directly.
Applied research                         40 public, private and non-governmental
organizations that belong to the SNITTA
network would benefit.
11.   Gender Strategy.    The fund would provide opportunities to men and women farmers
in the project area by: (a) marketing the project to both men and women through appropriate
communications materials and channels; (b) selecting TA providers who have the capacity and
experience to reach both male and female farmers based on their priorities and needs;
(c) providing gender analysis training when necessary for TA providers; (d) establishing gender-
related performance indicators; and (e) ensuring that a male and female representative of farmer
groups is present in the Uplands Fund Committee. The project would support all types of
organizations, but the general strategy would be to integrate men and women wherever possible.
In situations where cultural conditions do not permit mixed groups, the project would support
segregated activities.
2 _For management of ejido forest lands it would be possible for project funds to be utilized to pay the salary of a Municipal
Forester under the condition that the groups eligible for assistance agree amongst themselves and with the municipality to
work in that maimer.



Annex D
Page 5 of 13
12.   Technical Assistance and Training. Total investment (base costs) would be US$3.75
million. This activity would support initiatives in agriculture, natural forest management and
micro-watershed management. Eligible activities for financing would include: (a) technical
assistance and extension services by professionals (technicians and para-technicians); (b) farmer
training; (c) extension materials; (d) some agriculture and forestry inputs for communal/municipal
nurseries and the initial introduction of plant germplasm for conservation and soil fertility
management activities (seed, vegetative material, germplasm, simple agricultural tools, and agro-
chemicals); (e) communal and municipal nurseries; (f) operational expenses for extension workers
(such as per diems, fuel and transportation costs); and (g) costs of specific legal procedures (such
as assisting organizations to obtain legal status and usufruct contracts). Financing would be in the
form of grants to private technical assistance providers, based on technical assistance contracts
established between these entities and farmers, or communities and municipalities in the upland
areas. The project would not finance: labor (except for some activities in micro-watershed
management); credit; purchase of land; or other activities not described in the Fund Operational
Manual. Guidelines for preparing eligible fund initiatives are included as an attachment.
13.   More specifically, activities to be financed would include:
(a) for agricultural and livestock - annually updated extension and training plans, as well
as extension services and training as agreed to by participating farmers: (i) to manage
soil, water and fertility; and (ii) to increase agricultural and livestock productivity. The
types of technology that would be transferred include: green mulch; live barriers;
physical conservation works in concentrated flow areas; contour cultivation; minimum
tillage; improved crop spacings; windbreaks; composting/natural fertilizers;
alternatives to burning; artisanal seed selection; improved seed varieties; micro-
irrigation; appropriate use of chemical fertilizers; inter-cropping; pasture management;
live fencing; integrated pest control; and improved stoves. The project would finance
100 percent of costs of technical assistance and training for a maximum of four years
per group of farmers and an equivalent of US$600 per family.
(b) for forestry - annually updated extension and training plans and as well as extension
services and training, as agreed to by participating farmers for: (i) technical assistance
and training to develop and implement forest management plans (based on a Finished
technology project3 methodology) and market products from pine forests; (ii) technical
assistance and training in broad-leafed forests to prepare usufruct contracts, transfer
agro-forestry, forestry and agro-silvo-pastoral technology and reduce negative
environmental effects of traditional forest use; (iii) marketing plans of forest products;
and (iv) legal assistance to consolidate organizations and obtain usufruct contracts.
The project would finance 100 percent of technical assistance and training for the first
management plan and the first two years annual operating plans, 85 percent of the
costs of the third annual operating plan, 65 percent of the of the costs of the fourth
- The methodology was developed over the last five years in Honduras by a FINNIDA-fmanced program in Central America;
it is a forest management planning tool for pine forest management.



Annex D
Page 6 of 13
annual operating plan, and 50 percent of the fifth annual operating plan. The
maximum length of an assistance program financed by the project would be five years.
In cases where forest nurseries are called for under the forest management plan, the
project would finance a maximum of $1,000 per nursery for each management plan
over the life of the project.
(c) for micro-watershed management: (i) assistance (legal or administrative) to
municipalities to enter into contracts with AFE-COHDEFOR for transfer of
management responsibilities to the municipal government; (ii) environmental
educational campaigns to promote and sensitize local communities in watershed
conservation; (iii) technical assistance and training to prepare and implement
watershed protection plans (fire management and control); and (iv) technical
assistance and training to assist municipalities to generate and administer funds for fire
protection, and to strengthen local organizational capacity. The project would cover
90 percent of the costs of environmental education campaigns and promotional
materials; 75 percent of inputs for nurseries and management plans; and 50 percent of
fire prevention and protection programs. Micro-watershed projects may last a
maximum of four years, and the maximum financing would be $15,000 per micro-
watershed.
14.   Applied Research. Total investment (base cost) would be US$1.35 million. The project
would finance applied research to generate and disseminate technologies appropriate to upland
areas according to local needs and priorities. This activity could potentially finance research in
the following: (a) small-scale (community) natural forest management, including harvesting,
processing and marketing of timber and non-timber products; (b) non-traditional species
utilization; (c) hillsloped agriculture technology, particularly soil and moisture conservation and
soil fertility management; (d) improved small-scale livestock management, including practices to
reduce burning; and (e) integrated pest management. Institutions and entities who are members of
the National Research and Technology Transfer System (SNITTA) would be eligible to receive
research financing. Priorities would be set through a series of consultations in which the national
research policy entity (CONACTA) would participate.
15.   Training Of Natural Resources Professionals. Total investment (base cost) would be
US$0.45 million. The project would finance the development of: (a) training courses and
materials; (b) training of trainers; (c) seminars and workshops; (d) administrative and overhead
costs of training courses; and (e) a portion of the course attendees' costs. The training would be
focused on technical aspects of natural resources management (hillsloped production systems and
natural forest management) and on methodological aspects of extension and participatory
diagnostics, planning and evaluation.
16.   Fund Mechanism. Total investment (base cost) would be US$1.49 million. The project
would finance the completion of detailed design, establishment and implementation of the Upland
Producers' Fund. The activities to be financed would include: (a) completion of the procedures
manual, including preliminary testing of design and adjustments; (b) set-up of database of pre-
qualified consultants and management information system; (c) research and training prioritization



Annex D
Page 7 of 13
exercise (i.e., series of consultations and workshops with clients and end-users); (d) honoraria and
per diems for Fund Committee members; (e) establishment and operating costs of Fund
Secretariat; and (f) contract of Fund Manager.
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
17.  IDA and IDB jointly negotiated the structure of the funding mechanism with the
Government. IDB will be financing a parallel technology transfer and generation project targeted
at large, medium and small producers with potential (i.e. in terreno de vocacion agricola). It has
been agreed that the two Banks would use (if possible) the same finding mechanisms in order to
support the establishment of a GOH mechanism for channeling funds nationally. The long term
mechanism proposed by SAG/DICTA for channeling and administering funds is through the
creation of a foundation or trust. The IDB-funded project would have as a goal over its five-year
life the creation of this entity. As this would require a legislative act to constitute (which would
require several years to obtain) the project would begin implementation through an interim
mechanism. From IDA's perspective this simply means the SAG, as the entity legally responsible
for project implementation, would establish a committee (Upland Fund Committee) to approve
finding proposals. If a legally-constituted foundation or trust were set up in later years, the
Upland Committee would transfer to that mechanism.
18.   The SAG would have direct responsibility for implementing the Upland Producers' Fund
and for ensuring that the activities financed were consistent with eligibility criteria and with the
IDA Credit Agreement. For the SAG, this responsibility would be assumed by the Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU), which would review all proposals for compliance with the pre-
established eligibility criteria and the Credit Agreement. Following review by the PCU, proposals
would pass directly to the Fund for approval. The ultimate creation of the foundation or trust as
the administering and approving body would have no effect on the PCU's role to pre-verify
proposal eligibility.
19.   The SAG would vest authority to approve funding proposals in a joint private/public
sector committee called the Upland Fund Committee (UFC). Establishment of this Committee
and completion of regulations and procedures, including creation of a service provider roster, are
prior conditions for disbursement against this sub-component. The Committee would consist of
three sub-committees, each responsible for approval of: (a) agriculture/livestock proposals;
(b) forestry proposals; and (c) research proposals. There would be substantial overlap in sub-
committee membership. The UFC would have a technical secretariat consisting of a Fund
Administrator, two mid-level rural development/natural resources specialists, an accountant and a
part-time lawyer. The Secretariat would be charged with day-to-day oversight of the Fund's
workings, complying with GOH and IDA reporting requirements, and the approval of proposals
based on Fund policy, funding and an office-based review of technical content and viability, and
overall feasibility. Some sub-set of projects would be field-checked by the specialists.
20.   The Agriculture/Livestock Sub-committee would comprise 8 persons, one
representative from each of the following organizations: DICTA, Hacienda, SNITTA, AFE-



Annex D
Page 8 of 13
COHDEFOR, Forestry Sub-committee, College of Agronomists, and two representatives from
farmer's groups (one male and one female). The Forestry Sub-committee would comprise eight
persons, one representative from each of the following organizations: DICTA, Hacienda,
SNITTA, AFE-COHDEFOR, Agriculture/Livestock Sub-committee, College of Foresters, and
two representatives from forestry groups. Both the sub-committees would meet every month (on
consecutive days) to review financing requests. The Research Sub-committee would comprise
nine persons, one representative from each of the following organizations: DICTA, Hacienda,
AFE-COHDEFOR, Agriculture/Livestock Sub-committee, Forestry Sub-committee, farmer
groups, forestry groups and two representatives of SNITTA. The Research Sub-committee
would meet every quarter to review financing requests. Review in all cases would be of packages
rather than individual projects per se and the purpose of the review would be to ensure
compliance with Fund policies.
21.   A qualified Fund Manager would be selected by competitive bidding. Eligible entities
would include nationally-based entities such as private firms, NGOs, or universities. The Fund
Manager would be selected based on capacity and experience to work with subsistence farmers in
agriculture, forestry and natural resources projects and with intermediary organizations such as
NGOs. Final selection would be with IDA approval. The Fund Manager would be established in
Tegucigalpa. Nationally, the Fund Manager would consist of a Director/Administrator and a
four-person technical unit of comprised of project specialists (i.e. generalists with rural
development, natural resources management and forestry/agriculture experience) with at least
five years' experience. The Fund Manager would be responsible for promoting the fund;
determining the eligibility of private TA providers; screening technical proposals; identifying
training needs of private TA providers; supervising activities supported by the Fund and
approving disbursement requests; and maintaining administrative, management and monitoring
systems. The contract for the Fund Manager would be renewable yearly, based on performance.
22.   Funds would be maintained in an account in a private bank. The bank would disburse
resources to the TA providers following direction from the Fund Manager. The Bank would
provide those financial, accounting and administrative services which would normally be provided
to a major depositor.
23.   Private sector TA providers, such as NGOs, would provide the actual services to eligible
groups. A number of capable NGOs are already operating in the region and could potentially
participate in the project as TA providers, such as World Neighbors, CIDICCO, COSECHA, and
FAMA. These organizations have been successful in developing and transferring innovative
agricultural technologies to upland farmers in Honduras. To be eligible to serve as a TA provider,
organizations must: (a) have experience working with upland farmers (or other marginal farmers)
in the area in agriculture and natural resources activities; (b) have a presence in the Upland Area;
(c) demonstrate the use of suitable participatory methods; (d) have a signed contract for services
with the beneficiary farmers; (e) comply with GOH legal requirements for government
contractors, and (f) demonstrate administrative and technical capacity to implement a Fund
contract. Eligible TA providers could include: NGOs, private companies, independent extension
agents, and member producer organizations (such as indigenous federations and cooperatives).



Annex D
Page 9 of 13
Disbursements to service providers would be authorized by the client group based on satisfaction
with services provided.
24.   The Fund would emphasize information systems as a strategy for achieving internal and
external credibility. The Fund Manager would create a micro-computer management information
system that would contain: basic financial and administrative information on Fund activities; a
data base of unit costs for standard investments; quality indicators; and supervision data.
Information on clientele would be desegregated by gender to generate information on the needs
and behaviors of different groups by gender.
FINANCING
25.   Of the total project base cost of US$7.04 million, IDA would finance 93 percent and GOH
7 percent.
table 2. Financing Ceilings
ITEM                               FINANCING CEILINGS
Technical Assistance    consultants, $60/day; ingeniero, $750/month; dasonomo, $600/month;
technician, $450/month; para-technician, $325/month 
Training (off site)     $40/day/person, maximum $800/person
Extension Materials     $25/person
Communal Nurseries      $3,000/municipality; $1,500/community or producer group
Operational Costs       Per diems, Government rates; total not to exceed 25 percent of total cost.
_ dministrative costs, maximum 13 percent of total cost.
Costs of Legal Procedures   Maximuum $500
l - Para-technician does not refer to a member of a client group chosen to receive advanced
training. A para-technician is a professional extensionist with experiential credentials only, rather
than both academic and experiential credentials.
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
26.   At project startup, the PCU would let a contract to a private consulting firms to finalize
the draft Fund Procedures Manual. This would necessarily include consultations with potential
service providers and client groups over adequacy, flexibility and responsiveness of the Fund
procedures. At the same time, DICTA, in cooperation with the PCU, would activate the Fund
Manager contract, establish the Fund Secretariat, and with the support of the SAG and
CONACTA, constitute the Upland Fund Committee and begin to implement the Fund regulations.
The Fund Secretariat's first priority would be to prioritize research and training.
27.   Upon contracting, the Fund Manager's priority activities would be those associated with
setting up the database of pre-qualified consultants, the management information system, and



Annex D
Page 10 of 13
initiating the promotion of the fund. The development and financing of individual proposals
would follow the following scheme:
(a) The Fund Manager, DICTA regional personnel and AFE-COHDEFOR regional and
forestry personnel promote access to the Fund by local groups.
(b) Client and service provider jointly develop proposal.
(c) Proposals are passed directly to the Fund Manager for review. Review based on
funding and eligibility criteria, and field-based review of technical content and viability,
implementation capacity, and overall feasibility.
(d) Projects for IDA financing are passed to PCU for approval based on consistency with
project legal agreement.
(e) PCU passes eligible projects to the Technical Secretariat for approval based on
consistency with Fund policy, funding and eligibility criteria, and office-based review
of technical content and viability, and overall feasibility. Some sub-set of projects to
be field-checked.
(f) On a monthly basis, packages of projects are passed to the Fund Committee for
approval based on Fund policy. Technical questions can be raised requiring further
clarification by Fund Manager or client/service provider.
(g) Approval for project financing is given to Fund Manager. Financing approval
authority is based on disbursements against advances in approved annual work
program.
(h) Fund Manager authorizes bank disbursement of first tranche to service providers
account.
(i) Subsequent disbursements would be authorized by Fund Manager against advances in
annual work plan. These disbursements to the service provider would, however, be
conditioned on the client group's satisfaction with the quality of the services provided
(i.e. the client group must approve the disbursement). With forestry projects involving
forest management plans, disbursement to the service provider would first be
conditioned on the management plan's approval by AFE-COHDEFOR.
27.   criteria for client eligibility would include:
(a) geographical eligibility - for the life of the project, residents of the following Forest
Management areas would be eligible: Olanchito, Yoro; Yoro, Yoro; Agua Fria, Yoro;
Joc6n, Yoro; and San Esteban, Olancho. For Years 2.5-5 of the project, residents of
the following Forest Management Areas would be eligible: Gualaco, Olancho; Bonito
Oriental, Atlantida; Sabi, Atlantida; Morazan, Yoro; Catacamas, Olancho; Culmi,



Annex D
Page 11 of 13
Olancho; Guaimaca, Fco. Morazan; El Porvenir, Fco. Morazan and; Talanga, Fco.
Morazan.
(b) Clients must be located in areas deemed "forest vocation".
(c) Clients must not be eligible for financing from other technology transfer services.
(d) Clients must not be involved in other projects or programs with actions and activities
similar to those financed by this Sub-component.
(e) Clients must be organized in a group.
(f) For financing under micro-watershed management activities, areas must be "declared
watersheds" (i.e., designated as protected areas because of their importance for
potable water production).
(g) All proposals must include: (i) a signed agreement between the service provider and
the group; (ii) the results of a preliminary, participatory diagnostic and priority setting;
(iii) a list and CV of all persons to be paid under the contract; (iv) a list of the clients;
and (v) details of activities, goals, costs, impacts/benefits expected, and an general
multi-year plan with a detailed first-year plan with activities and costs by month.
(h) For agricultural/livestock proposals, there would be a maximum of 25 families per
group with a maximum of 20 groups or 500 families per proposal.
(i) For forestry proposals involving forest management, the unit would be the area of the
forest management plan.
29.   Based on the outcome of the priority setting exercises, carried out under contract to and
supervised by the Fund Secretariat, competitive bidding would be carried out to let contracts for
development of curricula and implementation of field-oriented training courses for:
(a) participatory diagnostics and project preparation; (b) technical and methodological aspects of
hillside and forestry management systems; and (c) participatory project monitoring and evaluation.
It is expected that contract sizes would be highly variable and range from programmatic (from
institutions, e.g. ESNACIFOR, Zamorano, Loma Linda Training Center) to topic specific (by
NGOs).
BENEFITS AND RISKS
30.   Substantial benefits are expected to accrue to the projects direct and indirect beneficiaries.
Experience in Honduras with World Neighbor, COSECHA and LUPE projects have
demonstrated average project yield increases of 300 percent in basic grain production within three
years of adopting the basic elements of the extension menu. According to a review of LUPE and
World Neighbors, both have successfully increased maize production on hillside farms on average



Annex D
Page 12 of 13
from 700 kg/ha to 2,000 kg/ha (Mausolff and Farber, 1995) with minimal increases in labor and
cash inputs. As over 50 percent of Honduras basic grain production (maize and frijol) is
produced on hillside farms, the potential economic impacts are also substantial.
31.   Sustainably increasing basic grain production and securing food supply at the farm level
would also be expected to have large secondary impacts. First, stabilizing basic grain production
in hillside farming systems is, generally speaking, a pre-requisite to making any other
improvements in the farming system; i.e. it will open space, both in terms of labor and land for the
household to dedicate to other enterprises.
32.   The technologies adopted to increase yield have significant impacts on soil loss. LUPE
project data has shown that with the adoption of vetiver hedgerows, green mulch, contour
cultivation, and minimum tillage that basic grain production can be sustained on slopes up to 60
percent (upper limit of data collection). One element of this was a reduction of average soil losses
to less than 15 t/ha/yr..
33.   Risks. The main risks are those associated with: (a) inadequate capacity at the national
level to administer and implement the fund and at the local level to provide services; and (b)
political interference resulting in funds being directed away from the intended beneficiaries. Risks
associated with capacity at the national level are managed through reliance on an open contracting
process to select the Fund Manager, who is the most critical entity in the implementation. It is
assumed that capable entities exist in Honduras to comply with the Fund Manager TOR on the
observation that there are a number of other funds currently functioning using local capacity. The
Inter-American Foundation's Fund Manager is one example of a local firm successfully managing
what is essentially the same set of activities proposed here. The issue of local capacity is managed
through inclusion of training specifically for this purpose and maintaining the option after the first
six months of implementation to contract service providers as an interim mechanism. The risk of
political interference is managed to the extent possible by creating an Upland Fund Committee
which represents more diverse interests and placing outside of a line agency, by development of
the management information system which will allow project clientele, geographic location and
activities to be monitored and supervised.



Annex D
Page 13 of 13
Table 3. Guidelines For Preparing Fund Activities
AGRICULTURE/LIVESTOCK                NATURAL FOREST                  MICRO-WATERSHED
I________________________                   MANAGEMENT                       MANAGEMENT
Proposal based on groups of 25 families  Proposal based on forest  Proposal based on participatory
maximum. One proposal could cover    management plans. One         diagnostic with municipalities and
several groups up to a maximum of 20   proposal could include up to 10   affected communities, and
groups or 500 families.             plans.                         discussions with local government
leadership and representatives of
Proposal based on participatory     Participating groups will be the   pertinent government agencies (like
diagnosis with focal group and      ones with real interest and forest  AFE-COHDEFOR, National Water
discussions with municipalities, and  management capacity.         Agency).
AFE-COHDEFQOR
Groups are located in an area  Simple proposal focused on a
Simple proposal focused on a limited    where it is possible to guarantee  limited amount of priority activities.
amount of priority activities.      that there is no usurpation of
group or individuals traditional   Development of activities that are
Highest priority in places where there is  rights .                mostly based on low cost local
no stable basic food production and                                available resources..."Low cost"
food supply.                        National forest proposals      defined by the municipality and
coherent with Forests Social  groups involved.
Technology use based mostly on low  System'.
cost local resources availability. "Low                            Use of training to motivate local
cost" meant from the producer       Proposal based on participatory   groups who will participate with the
perspective.                        diagnosis through focus groups   municipality in long term
and discussions with          conservation of the basin.
Use of extension technologies that focus  municipalities, and AFE-
on producers motivation and         COHDEFOR.                      Use of training to educate
knowledge to test, verify and adopt new                            community promoters so that they
technology on a small scale in their  Simple proposal focused on a  may continue to foster conservation
own plot.                           limited amount of priority     activities.
activities.
Use of technology that can yield quick                             Over the medium term, the
success, easily identifiable, instead of    Technology use based on low  objective of the awareness campaign
incentives or artificial subsidies.  cost local resources availability.  is to foment payment by water users
"Low cost" meant from the     for fire protection and watershed
Educate local leaders as liaison    producer perspective.          surveillance.
producers and support them while they
train other producers.              Use of extension methodology
that focuses on group formation
and motivation to create groups
with a high degree of initiative
in management to minimize
forester supervision.
4 The Forest Social System objectives and policies have not been outlined, neither its organization, priorities or eligibility
criteria. In the meantime, the World Bank could finance (through the Institutional Development Fund) support to groups
in national forests with contracts for areas where criteria are clearer. These are in: (a) broad leaf forest; (b) with
cooperatives and resin groups; (c) non-timber products; and (d) buffer zones.



Annex E
Page 1 of 11
HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
BIODIVERS1TY CONSERVATION SUB-COMPONENT
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Biodiversity Conservation sub-component would finance activities designed to assist
the Government of Honduras to bring priority areas of the country's protected area system
(Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas de Honduras; SINAPH) under effective conservation and
management regimes. In this context "priority" is based on biological values. The general
objectives of the sub-component are to assist in developing an effective, functioning protected
areas system which: (a) is capable of generating a significant portion of the income required to
sustain management efforts, and (b) prioritizes federal resource allocation to those sites with
national and international significance for biodiversity
BACKGROUND AND JUSTIFICATION
2.    IDA involvement in the environmental sector in Honduras began in 1992 with the
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (AGSAC; Cr. 2540-HO) and with the Environmental
Development Project (Cr. 2693-HO) and continues with the proposed Natural Resources
Management and Land Administration project. This biodiversity sub-component complements
initiatives in these earlier projects and of bilateral donors such as USAID and GTZ to strengthen
the national system of protected areas and help develop a realistic Biodiversity Strategy. Under
the AGSAC, 15 operational plans were prepared for key protected areas with USAID assistance
3.    While reliable information on deforestation in Honduras does not exist (rate, location,
underlying causes), it is known that rates of forest loss are significant (best estimates are between
62,000 ha and 80.000 ha/yr) and represent an annual loss in the order of 1 percent to 1.5 percent
of total forest cover. In biodiversity terms, however, "percentage loss of total forest cover" does
not present the entire picture. Apparently, the majority of deforestation in Honduras is occurring
in broadleaf forest zones and, more specifically, in lowland tropical forests. Expansion of
subsistence agriculture and cattle ranching have been reported as the primary agents. This implies
that the annual percentage loss within broadleaf forest communities -- which are of greater
significance from a biodiversity perspective than the coniferous forests -- is much higher than the
average national rate and is conceivably twice or more than the national figure.
4.    Biodiversity Values in Honduras. While biodiversity in Honduras is among the least
inventoried in Central America, the few available figures illustrate that there should be no doubt as



Annex E
Page 2 of 11
to its significance nor to the degree of threat it faces. The number of species of vascular plants
has been estimated at 5,000, of which 148 are either endemic or whose range is restricted to
northern Central America. The conservation status of 35 of these latter species is considered as
"threatened". The bird list for the country includes 710 species, 59 of which are threatened on a
national level and 5 are in danger of extinction. The mammal list counts 195 species, including 19
threatened species and 8 in danger of extinction. Some 170 species of reptiles are listed for the
country, 15 of which are threatened and 4 in danger of extinction. The amphibians list includes 75
species with 12 threatened species. The species lists of vertebrates for the country, while
somewhat shorter than those for Costa Rica, are nevertheless considerable. If one considers that
Costa Rica is now the best inventoried country in Central America, the less favorable comparison
(in numeric terms) with Honduras may only be an artifact of lack of data. The coral reefs
surrounding the three Bay Islands and the numerous cays (keys) off the Atlantic cost are also of
high biological significance.
5.   The tropical moist broadleaf forests of the Honduran montane zones are considered
endangered, bio-regionally outstanding, and of high priority for conservation at the regional-scale.
The tropical moist broadleaf forests of the Atlantic and the pine-oak montane are considered
vulnerable, bio-regionally outstanding, and of moderate priority for conservation at the regional
scale. The former type of forest is found primarily within the protected areas system and the latter
types are found both within and outside of the protected areas systems, though in the case of
pine/oak forest its conservation status is less clear. All are of key importance to the Central
American Region as part of the Meso-American Biological Corridor concept, and have been
prioritized by the Central American presidents for conservation efforts. The GOH has requested
complementary GEF financing for preparation of a joint UNDP/WB executed investment project
to focus on sites of high priority for conservation within the corridor and to complement this sub-
component's focus on sites of high economic potential to generate resources for maintaining
minimum administrative infrastructure. The preparation of this and the GEF project have been a
vehicle for advancing a coordinated dialogue on the best approach for implementing the National
Biodiversity Strategy.
6.   Protected Area System. Currently there are 107 areas listed as being within SINAPH,
which is a system legally established within the Ley General del Ambiente, Decreto 104-93. Only
about a half of the areas which comprise the SINAPH have a legal declaration providing a solid
basis for their protection. In total, the SINAPH covers some 1.6 million ha or about 14 percent
of the country's land area. There are 8 management categories or administrative designations
within tne protected area system.
7.   There is fairly substantial agreement that the current definition of the SINAPH leaves
something to be desired. However, there has been little accomplished to date which might lead to
achieving agreement on what should constitute a "rationalized" or "minimum adequate" protected
areas system. The current system contains significant areas which, from a national or international
perspective, no longer contain the biological values for which they were initially included as



Annex E
Page 3 of 11
protected areas. In addition, many areas have been designated, not primarily for their biological
values, but for other objectives of national or local interest (e.g., all forest above 1,800 m for their
watershed protection functions). Also, the SINAPH does not fully represent the entire range of
biodiversity and landscape values that would be desirable (e.g. deciduous dry forest and
mangroves are substantially under-represented). It must be noted that while there exists little
rationale from the national or international biodiversity perspectives to maintain some current
areas in the SINAPH, for many such areas there are likely to be compelling local or broader
natural resource conservation arguments for maintaining their status as "protected".
8.   Many of the remaining high value areas in the SINAPH are located in zones which are
sparsely populated relative to the rest of the country (i.e. the Departments of Colon, Gracias a
Dios, and Olancho) and are the homes of a significant percentage of the countries indigenous
peoples (i.e. the Garifunas, Misquitos, Sumos, and Payas). These areas are now thought to be
under heavy pressure from encroachment by poor and landless peoples from other parts of the
country. Given that population is growing at 3 percent per annum (with 40 percent of the
population below the age of 14) and mobility is increasing, current rates of encroachment and
forest clearing can be expected to at least remain the same, if not increase, over the medium term.
9.   Institutionally, the SINAPH's management and protection is the responsibility of the
Department of Protected Areas and Wildlife (DAPVS) in the National Forest Agency (AFE-
COHDEFOR). The total staff of the DAPVS is about 60 persons -- which includes all staff in the
protected areas themselves, the regional AFE-COHDEFOR offices and at headquarters. Only
very few protected areas have any permanent field staff. Three of the protected areas are
administered by skeleton field staff of NGOs and one area is administered by the Municipal Water
Utility of San Pedro Sula. Very few of the protected areas could be considered as being under a
DAPVS management regime which provides a minimum adequate control.
PROJECT AREA
10.   In the absence of national consensus upon what might constitute a redefined or
rationalized SINAPH, it was agreed with GOH that the IDA project would focus investments on
areas which retain significant portions of their natural habitats which are of outstanding value for
economic reasons (income generation potential) to complement the GEF project's focus on high
biodiversity priorities. There is a high degree of certainty that in any future, rationalized SINAPH
these "core areas" would still maintain a top priority status. To identify these areas reconnaissance
flights and field inspections were carried out that covered almost all 105 protected areas. Areas
with more than 90 percent unaltered vegetation in their core areas and with little or no permanent
habitations were considered to qualify as core areas. Areas with less than 75 percent natural
vegetation and considerable human presence in their core areas were considered to qualify as
areas of regional biodiversity potential for their biodiversity value. These latter would also have
additional values for other management objectives, such as multiple use, watershed management,



Annex E
Page 4 of 11
or forestry programs. Five areas which fell in between these categories need further investigation.
Based on this analysis, 16 areas or clusters of areas were identified that could constitute the core
management units of largely pristine habitat. Additionally, two caves sites were included as
natural monuments for their visitation potential and some few beach sites in the Gulf of Fonseca
to protect marine turtle nesting sites. The selected areas are listed in Table 1.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
11.   The specific objectives of the Biodiversity Conservation Sub-component are:
(a)   within the SINAPH, to focus central government's management resources on a
small number of high-priority core protected areas under management by the
national forestry agency's (AFE-COHDEFOR) protected areas department
(DAPVS);
(b)   to strengthen the DAPVS to fulfill its tasks under a tight mandate and strict
budgetary discipline and increase its ability to work with other partners including
NGOs and local government and communities;
(c)   to establish a financial management mechanism for capturing significant ecotourism
income and generating a stream of revenues by building tourism infrastructure in a
selected set of priority biodiversity areas within the SINAPH; and
(d)   to finance buffer zone activities that help sustain conservation and management in
the selected protected areas and which generate local employment and revenues
through protected areas-linked ecotourism
12.  Priority setting of SINAPH. As a basis for determining priorities, a map of Honduran
ecosystems is being elaborated with PPF and additional project funds to build on the preliminary
analysis described above and detemine "representativity" of the existing SINAPH through a gap-
analysis (i.e. identification of ecosystems under-represented or absent in the national protected
areas system). Once this map of Honduran ecosystems is completed in 1997, SAG and SERNA
would host a series of consultations to evaluate the findings and build a national consensus for a
rationalized SINAPH. This dialogue will include the municipalities within whose jurisdiction the
concemed sites are located as key stakeholders. It is not anticipated that during the life of the
project any current SINAPH areas would be de-gazetted or suffer a change in legal protection
status. Nor is this an objective of the exercise. The basic objectives are: (a) to create an
adequately defined protected area system which fully incorporates a complete representation of
biodiversity and landscape values; and (b) to promote transparent, rational decisions for the
allocation of limited resources to protected area management.



Annex E
Page 5 of 11
Table 1. Protected areas with significant portions of natural habitat
EST. CORE
MANAGEMENT UNIT                    COMPOSITION                   AREA (HA)
National Parks
La Mosquitia         Caratasca, Kruta, Warunta, Rus Rus, Cayos       100,000
_Misquitos
Capiro y Calentura-                                                   10,000
Celaque                                                                5,000
Cusuco                                                                26,000
Estero del Golfo     Bahia de Chismuyo, Jicarito                      20,000
Guaimoreto
La Muralla                                                            26,000
La Tigra                                                               7,500
Marino de la Bahia    Sites and cays of Utila, Roatan, Guanaja and C.  15,000
Zapotillos
Merendon                                                              10,000
Montafna Verde                                                         1,500
Patuca-Tawahka       Patuca and Tawahka                              200,000
Pico Bonito-Texiguat  Pico Bonito and Texiguat                        50,000
Rio Platano                                                          210,000
Santa Barbara                                                          1,000
Sierra Rio Tinto-    Rio Tinto and Sierra Agalta                     100,000
Agalta
Tela                 Punta Sal-Izopo, Lancetilla, Cuero y Salado      40,000
Natural Monuments and Wildlife Refuges
Cuevas de Talgua                                                        150
Cuevas de Taulabe                                                        150
Isla Iguanas/        Various turtle beaches in the Golf of Fonseca      500
P.Condega
Areas In Need of Further Analysis
Arenal                                                                 2,500
Cerro Azul                                                             2,500
Cerro Azul Meambar                                                     2,500
El Chile                                                               2,500
Montafia de la Flor                                                    2,500
TOTAL       835,300
1 "Composition" refers to the make up of the management unit, in that the management units
might comprise portions of one or more current SINAPH areas.



Annex E
Page 6 of 11
13.   Strengthening of the DAPVS and Partner Organizations. Recognizing the weakness
of the Department of Protected Areas (DAPVS), the sub-component contemplates increasing the
number of staff managing the priority areas. Projections of staff needs are based on the
understanding the NGOs currently sub-contracted for protected areas management activities
would continue at their current levels of involvement or increase the scope and number of
activities in protected areas within their areas of influence. MICOSYS software, a program
developed for protected areas management planning, was used to make preliminary estimates of
staffing and financing needs for the core protected areas. The program calculates a total need of
440 staff for the selected 16 management units. Assuming a stringent mandate, efficient input of
staff and some degree of cooperation with NGOs and sub-contracting of certain tasks, a protected
areas entity of about 400 staff could effectively manage the 16 core protected management units.
14.   During the first year of the project, equipment and staff would be increased to provide
initial strengthening of the system. In this year, the project would finance acquisition of 10
vehicles, 5 motorcycles and 10 horses; and costs of increasing DAPVS (AFE-COHDEFOR)
protected areas staff from 60 to 120. As described under the Parks Fund activity, these new staff
and equipment are expected to become self-sustaining with revenues from parks entrance fees.
Further strengthening of the DAPVS will be planned based on the capacity of partner
organizations and the park management personnel needs identified, as plans are prepared for
priority areas in this sub-component and the GEF. The project would finance new personnel for
the first two years, and by the third year, the self-financing Fund should absorb annual costs of
these expenditures.
15.   Training Activities. Another institutional strengthening activity would be training of
DAPVS staff to manage the protected areas infrastructure being created, to implement the self-
financing mechanism, and to work with visitors and local communities. Some training would also
be provided to NGOs and local communities, but apart from the 7 parks being developed under
this component, most such training would be financed through the complementary GEF project
through the UNDP training sub-component.
16.   Investments in Protected Areas. The project would create a Parks Fund based on a
self-financing mechanism. Income from entrance fees in a core set of high potential eco-tourism
protected areas would be deposited in a Parks Fund to be created under the project. The income
from the Fund would be used to finance the annual recurrent costs of operating the SINAPH, in
accordance with the annual operating plan of DAPVS. In order to establish a financial base to
generate eco-tourism revenues from park entrance fees, infrastructure and equipment would be
developed to create visitor centers of international standing in 2-4 high interest protected areas
(PAs). Infrastructure would include interpretation programs and nature trails. Financing would
also be provided to up-grade 7 existing areas with duty stations and basic administrative centers
for management staff and rangers, trails or access roads to duty stations, vehicles, motorcycles,
horses, and radios for communications to and within protected areas.



Annex E
Page 7 of 11
17.   Self-financing Mechanism and Fund. A fund (fideicomiso) would be managed by a
commercial bank to handle entry fees and make all payments to the PAs that qualify under a pre-
established set of rules. Salaries and maintenance of equipment and infrastructure would be paid
from the fund. Assuming continuing government funding of the SINAPH at current levels, it is
expected that the fund would be self-supporting for the core areas by the third year of the
project.
LONG-TERM FINANCING OF THE PROTECTED AREAS SYSTEM
18.   The total investment needs in buildings and equipment for all 16 core management units,
as estimated by the MICOSYS program, would amount to US$6,800,000. Not all these funds
would be provided by the combined Natural Resources Management and GEF projects, as several
other donors are planning to provide significant financing for some of these core areas (GTZ for
Rio Platano and the IDB for the Bay Islands). The IDA loan (Table 3) would provide financing
for 7 protected areas, of which $2.9 million would finance infrastructure and equipment and $0.4
million would finance planning and demarcation.
19.   Demarcation of the core areas will be a costly long-term process. If done gradually, in
consultation with the local population, the process will be far less costly and achieve better
consensus. The combined Natural Resources Management and GEF projects would earmark
about $600,000 for the most urgent locations. It is assumed that other projects (GTZ, etc.)
would contribute additional funds toward the long-term goal of complete demarcation.
Preparation of protected area management plans, executed under local contracts, would cost an
estimated $650,000 for all 16 core management units. The combined Natural Resources
Management and GEF projects would earmark the funds for planning for those areas which so far
are not considered to be financed by other donors.
20.   Annual operational Costs of the 16 core management units. The MICOSYS software
has calculated the annual costs for administering and managing the 16 core management units.
The program assumes inclusion of costs for: (a) write-off and maintenance of buildings and
equipment; (b) all the staff costs; and (c) all office costs, including those of headquarters. It does
not include capital costs of investments and land. It only generates an estimate of the minimum
payments required to run the system. For the 16 core management units plus headquarters costs,
the program estimates the annual costs at about $2.6 to $3.0 million.
21.   Recurrent costs of the project. The project would finance recurrent costs until the self-
financing fund mechanism takes over in the course of the third year. The project would finance
new personnel to ensure that the management unit would grow to the required size of 400 staff.
While the project's share in wages would decrease in the third year, the fund mechanism would
start taking over until the full required strength has been reached. Equally, for operation and



Annex E
Page 8 of 11
maintenance of vehicles, the project would finance recurrent costs until the fund takes over in the
third year.
22.   Income from tourism. At present, the main tourism attractions of Honduras are scuba-
diving at the Bay Islands (25,000 foreign visitors/year), the Ruins of Copan (80,000 visitors/year)
and the beaches of Tela and La Ceiba. La Muralla attracts about 60,000 visitors per year, the
majority of whom are nationals, with a high percentage of students. All told, Honduras has about
440,000 entries per year. Tourism from North America and Europe is estimated at 120,000/year.
It is expected that if the national parks system were to offer 5 visitor centers of international
quality, 80 percent of the North American and European tourists would visit at least 1 national
park, 50 percent would visit 2 national parks and 30 percent would visit 3 national parks. At an
entry fee of $10 per area, this would generate $1,920,000 per year. Based on estimates of the
current level of visitation to various areas, national visitors would pay $ 100,000 per year if they
were to pay one dollar per entry per person.
23.   A growth of the tourism market of 7 percent per year does not seem unrealistic, given the
fact that the Bay Islands are considerably upgrading the quality of their tourism infrastructure,
Copan is about to finish a good quality visitor center, and given the construction of the visitation
infrastructure proposed under this project. This would lead to a doubling of the national parks
income in 10 years, an important ingredient in the recipe for self sufficiency.
24.   Self sufficiency for the 16 core management units. In 1995, GOH financing of
protected areas was at a level of about $600.000, not including about $200,000 for staff costs and
office costs. If all the entry fees are administered through the fund to be redistributed among the
16 selected management units, this would generate about $2.0 million per year. If the GOH
continued to pay $0.8 million per year into the fund, the total annual budget for administration
and management would allow for $2.8 million for the 16 selected management units and the
headquarters. Assuming a stringent mandate and a balanced budget discipline, the system could
be effectively self-sufficient.3
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
25.   The Department of Protected Areas and Wildlife (DAPVS) of the state forestry agency
(AFE-COHDEFOR) would be responsible for the implementation of the sub-component.
26.   GEF Biodiversity Conservation Project. The GEF Biodiversity Conservation Project,
currently under formulation, is expected to be fully integrated with the Biodiversity Conservation
sub-component under the IDA loan. Major components would include: (a) institutional
3 Administering all entry fees under one fund does not necessarily imply that all revenues must go into the fund
itself. As an incentive to provide quality service and active fee collection, the feasibility of allowing a percentage
of the collected fees to be left in the area would be explored.



Annex E
Page 9 of 11
strengthening; (b) financing for infrastructure and elaboration of management plans for priority
protected areas in the Meso-American Biological Corridor, including one visitor center; (c) buffer
zone investments; and (d) monitoring.
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
27.   The first year of the project would be devoted to developing an agreed structure and
working procedures for the Parks Funds and contracting the design of the infrastructure for the
protected areas included in the sub-component. During the second year, the project would enter
its construction phase. It would finance the construction of 20 ranger stations, 3 visitor centers,
trails, the production of all visitor center and interpretation trail exhibition material, as one or two
turn-key contracts. Furthermore, it would finance 5 vehicles, 10 motor cycles 15 horses and the
communication equipment and building inventories for the buildings to be constructed. Another
master plan would be developed and demarcation would take place in critical areas. The staff
would be raised with another 60 persons and a training component would be financed. The fund
would finance the management fee of the fund and recurrent costs for vehicle maintenance.
28.  The third year would mark the beginning of the self-financing phase. It would be the first
year of operation of the visitor centers. The self-financing fund would start receiving revenues
from entry fees. The project would finance the construction of 10 ranger stations, trails, the
acquisition 5 motorcycles and of the communication equipment and building inventories for the
ranger stations to be built and the demarcation of critical zones. The project would still finance a
good share of the personnel costs, but during this year the fund would start contributing as well.
In the fourth year the project would continue to finance training, and some contribution to staff
costs, but the major share would come from the fund. The project would finance 5 motorcycles
and the construction of trails. The fifth year would see the consolidation of the new
administration. The project would still finance training, the construction of some trails and the
purchase of 5 motorcycles.
BENEFITS AND RISKS
29.   The benefits of concentrating available resources on a core conservation system are:
(a)   The project would open up the most attractive national parks of the country to the
people of Honduras, who could then visit them at a very low cost. Those parks
would stimulate visitation by students from elementary schools, high schools, and
universities and generate a demand for biodiversity conservation.
(b)   Near the parks with visitor centers, tourism activities would gradually generate
new employment opportunities for local populations.



Annex E
Page 10 of 11
(c)   Adding quality tourism destinations to the country would benefit the entire tourism
sector, thus contributing to the growth of an economic activity with high labor
demand.
(d)   In combination with the associated GEF project, the investments would provide
major benefits to the inhabitants of buffer zone areas and the biological corridor,
including indigenous peoples.
(e)   The investment would help put a viable protected areas service into place, largely
supported through a self-financing mechanism.
30.   The risks of concentrating available resources on a core conservation system are:
(a)   Too broad a mandate being thrust upon the protected areas unit (which would
include buffer zone management activities) may lead to budgetary problems and to
inadequate management and control in the core areas. Degradation as a result of
poor visitor management, fire management, and increasing deforestation of the
core areas could result. The management of this risk would include using the
Upland Producer's Fund mechanism of the project for buffer zone activity
promotion of strategic alliances with NGOs, municipal governments and other
local interest groups for activities which do not fall directly under the competency
of the protected areas unit.
(b)   The income generated by a restricted number of highly attractive national parks
would have to be redistributed in accordance with biodiversity protection needs as
well as visitor management needs, taking into account the needs of the core
conservation system as a whole. If this were not done consistently, only the
visitation hot-spots will receive adequate financing, while areas of high biodiversity
but limited or no visitor potential (such as Rio Platano) may be left under-financed
and poorly protected. This risk would be managed through creation of a funding
mechanism independent of the government and capable of capturing financial
resources from other sources (e.g. bi-lateral assistance).
(c)   Additional visitor infrastructure beyond the 5 visitor centers would raise
management costs, but not the total number of visitors to national parks, thus
jeopardizing the self-sufficiency strategy. No additional visitor center should be
added until the total system has reached a visitation level of 400,000 entries by
foreign visitors, after which each additional 100,000 foreign visitors would allow
for, but certainly not require, the construction of an additional visitor center. The
addition of any visitor center would thus need to be based on a cost-benefit
analysis, to ensure maximum returns for the benefit of the core conservation
system.



Annex E
Page 11 of 11
(d)   If the tourism and park visitation projections are not met, the system would not
become self-sufficient over time. Nevertheless, only a very pessimistic scenario
would create a situation worse than that which currently prevails. Were
visitations 50 percent lower than projected, the generated income plus the
continuation of the current government budget would still be enough to pay for the
personnel costs and running expenses (fuel and maintenance for vehicles) during
the project life.



HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Components Project Cost Summary
(Lempira '000)                                                     (USS '000)
Y          / Total                                              *          % Totbi
Foreign       Base                                               Foreign       Ban
Local       Foreign       Total      Exchange       Costs        Local       Foreign       Total      Exchange       Costs
A. Land Administration Modernization
I Pilot Phase                                          15,581.1     11,105.3     26,686.3          42            5       1,205.6        859.3      2,064.9          42            5
2. PostPilot Phase                                    116,959.1      8,659.2    125,618.2            7           26       9,049.8       670.0      9,719.8            7           26
Subtotal Land Administration Modernization               132,540.1     19,764.4    152,304.6          13           31      10,255.4      1,529.3     11,784.7          13           31
B. Natural Resource Management
1. Improved Natural Resource Management                64,600.4     77,055.6    141,656.0          54           29       4,998.5      5,962.2     10,960.7          54           29
2. Fund for Upland Producers                           87,383.4            -     87,383.4            -           18      6,761.3            -      6,761.3            -           18
3.BiodiversityConservation                             53,600.2     15,723.0     69,323.3          23            14      4,147.3       1,216.6     5,363.9          23            14
Subtotal Natural Resource Management                     205,584.1     92,778.7    298,362.7          31           61      15,907.2      7,178.8     23,086.0          31           61
C. Project Administration                                 40,470.8      1,033.0     41,503.8           2            8       3,131.5         79.9      3,211.4           2            8
Total BASELINE COSTS                                     378,595.1    113,576.0    492,171.1           23          100      29,294.0      8,788.0     38,082.0          23          100
Physical Contingencies                                 12,812.3      5,678.8     18,491.1          31             4        991.4        439.4       1,430.8         31             4
Price Contingencies                                   108,495.0     23,189.2    131,684.2           18           27       1,906.1       414.0      2,320.1           18            6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      499,902.3    142,444.0    642,346.4           22          131      32,191.5      9,641.4     41,832.9          23          110



HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                          ,' ,
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
(Lempir '000)                                                      (USS '000)
%         % Total                                               %          % Total
Foreign       Bae                                               Foreign        Bae
Local       Foreign       Total      Exchainge      Costs        Local       Foreign       Total      Exchange       Costs
L Investment Costs
A. Works
. Civil Works                              37,181.6           -      37,181.6           -            8       2,876.9           -       2,976.9            -           8
2. Mapping works                            2,760.7            -      2,760.7            -           1         213.6            -        213.6            -
Subtotal Works                               39,942.3                   39,942.3           -            8       3,090.6           -       3,090.6           -            8
B. Goods
1. Vehicles                                  789.0      17,907.6     18,696.6          96            4         61.0       1,385.6      1,446.7          96            4
2. Computers                                1,077.1     21,382.8     22,459.9          95            5          83.3      1,654.5      1,737.8          95            5
3. Office equipment and fimniture            691.5        691.5       1,383.0          50             -         53.5         53.5        107.0          50
4. Field cquiprnent                         1,002.1     13,843.8     14,845.9          93             3         77.5      1,071.2      1,148.7          93             3
Subtotal Goods                                 3,559.6     53,825.7     57,385.4          94           12        275.4       4,164.8      4,440.2          94           12
C. Consultants
I. Intemational Consultants                      -      57,623.1     57,623.1         100           12            -       4,458.6      4,458.6         100           12
2. Local Consultants                      139,170.6           -    139,170.6             -          28      10,768.4            -     10,768.4            -          28
3. Infoiation Campaign                      4,556.7           -       4,556.7            -            1        352.6           *         352.6            -           I
Subtotal Consultants                         143,727.3     57,623.1    201,350.3          29           41      11,121.0      4,458.6     15,579.6          29           41
D. Tainirg                                    29,073.8      2,127.2     31,201.0           7            6       2,249.6       164.6       2,414.2           7            6
E. Fund for Upland Producers                  87,383.4           -      87,383.4           -           18       6,761.3           -       6,761.3           -           IS
Total Investment Cost                          303,686.4    113,576.0    417,262.4           27           85     23,497.9      8,788.0     32,285.9           27           85
IL Recurrent Coats
A. Incremental recunent costs
1. Salaries                                23,503.1           -      23,503.1           -            5       1,818.6           -       1,818.6           -            5
2. Operating costs                         36,959.5           -      36,959.5            -           8       2,859.8                   2,859.8            -           8
3. Maintenace of equipment
andvehicles                               13,065.1            -     13,065.1            -           3       1,010.9            -      1,010.9            -           3
Subtotal Incremental recurrent costs         73,527.6            -      73,527.6           -           15       5,689.2           -       5,689.2           -           15
B. OperntingcostsforCOHDEFOR                   1,381.0                   1,381.0            -           -         106.9           -        106.9            -            -
Total Recurrent Cost                            74,908.7            -     74,908.7            -           15      5,796.1            -      5,796.1            -           15
Tot BASELINE COSTS                              378,595.1    113,576.0    492,171.1           23          100      29,294.0      8,788.0     38,0g2.0          23          100
Physical Ctingencies                          12,812.3      5,678.8     18,491.1          31            4        991.4        439.4       1,430.8          31            4
PriceContingencies                           108,495.0     23,189.2    131,684.2          18           27       1,906.1       414.0       2,320.1         -18            6
Totl PROJECT COSTS                              499,902.3    142,444.0    642,346.4           22          131      32,191.5      9,641.4    41,832.9           23          110



HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Components by Year -- Base Costs
(US$ '000)
Base Cost
1997        1998         1999         2000         2001        Total
A. Land Administration Modernization
1. Pilot Phase                                                            1,544.0       514.3          6.6            -            -      2,064.9
2. Post Pilot Phase                                                       1,142.4      1,274.1      3,060.1      3,021.8     1,221.5      9,719.8
Subtotal Land Administration Modernization                                   2,686.4      1,788.4     3,066.6      3,021.8      1,221.5     11,784.7
B. Natural Resource Management
1. Improved Natural Resource Management                                   3,430.0      2,483.2      2,470.9      1,446.1     1,130.4     10,960.7
2. Fund for Upland Producers                                              1,270.2      1,372.8      1,372.S      1,372.8     1,372.8      6,761.3
3. Biodivcrsity Conservation                                                966.0      2,921.0       998.8        323.7        154.4      5,363.9
Subtotal Natural Resource Management                                         5,666.1      6,777.1     4,842.5      3,142.6      2,657.6     23,086.0
C. Project Administration                                                     646.4        615.6        666.9        641.3       641.3       3,211.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                           8,998.9      9,181.1      8,576.0     6,805.6      4,520.4     38,082.0
Physical Contingencies                                                      349.3        405.7       330.9        214.8        130.1      1,430.8
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                                                 296.9       1,153.0      2,053.7     2,633.0      2,236.9      8,373.6
Foreign                                                                47.1         96.7        111.5         70.6         88.1       414.0
Subtotal Inflation                                                       344.0      1,249.7      2,165.2      2,703.7      2,325.0     8,787.6
Devaluation                                                             -222.5       -872.6     -1,574.1     -2,043.2     -1,755.2    -6,467.5
Subtotal Price Contingencies                                                121.5       377.1        591.1        660.5        569.8      2,320.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                            9,469.7      9,963.9      9,498.0     7,681.0      5,220.3     41,832.9
Taxes                                                                       301.5        382.7       273.9        185.6        172.9      1,316.6
Foreign Exchange                                                          3,667.2      2,554.1      1,791.5       821.5        807.0      9,641.4                          1



HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Components by Year -- Investment/Recurrent Costs
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1997        199i         1999        2000         2001        Total
A. Land Administration Modernization
1. Pilot Phase
Investment Costs                                                 1,336.2       530.4           -            -           -       1,866.7
Recurrent Costs                                                    291.4        34.0          7.0           -            -       332.4
Subtotal Pilot Phase                                                1,627.7       564.4         7.0           -                   2,199.1
2. Post Pilot Phase
Investment Costs                                                   808.6       910.1      2,520.1      2,176.6       940.6      7,356.1
Recurrent Costs                                                    392.5       457.4       866.8       1,240.9       478.2      3,435.7
Subtotal Post Pilot Phase                                           1,201.1     1,367.5      3,386.9     3,417.5      1,418.8    10,791.8
Subtotal Land Administration Modernization                            2,828.8      1,932.0     3,393.9      3,417.5     1,418.8     12,990.9
B. Natural Resource Management
1. Improved Natural Resource Management
Investnent Costs                                                 3,520.2      2,555.0     2,623.1      1,498.2     1,154.2     11,350.7
RecrTent Costs                                                     132.9       157.1        161.2       165.4        169.7       786.2
Subtotal lmproved Natural Resource Management                       3,653.1     2,712.1      2,784.3     1,663.6      1,323.9    12,137.0
2. Fund for Upland Producers
Investment Costs                                                 1,286.7      1,426.8     1,463.9     1,501.9      1,541.0      7.220.3
3. Biodiversity Conservation
Investment Costs                                                  752.9      2,680.7        833.6       179.6        184.3      4,631.1
Recurrent Costs                                                    264.0       543.8        279.0       185.2            -      1,272.0
Subtotal ltodiversity Conservation                                  1,016.9     3,224.5      1,112.6       364.9       184.3      5,903.1
Subtotal Natural Resource Management                                  5,956.7      7,363.4     5,360.8      3,530.4     3,049.2     25,260.4
C. Project Administration
Investment Costs                                                     619.9        602.4       675.5        663.6       680.8      3,242.2
Recurrent Costs                                                       64.4         66.1        67.8         69.6        71.4        339.4
Subtotal Project Administration                                         684.3       668.5        743.3       733.2        752.2      3,581.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                    9,469.7     9,963.9      9,498.0     7,681.0      5,220.3    41,832.9
Total Investment Costs                                              8,324.6     8,705.4      8,116.2     6,019.9      4,501.0    35,667.1
Total Recurrent Costs                                               1,145.2     1,258.4      1,381.8     1,661.1       719.3      6,165.8



HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Components by Year -- Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingendes
1997         1998         1999         2000         2001         Total
A. Land Administration Modernization
1. Pilot Phase                                                              1,627.7       564.4           7.0            -            -       2,199.1
2. Post Pilot Phase                                                         1,201.1      1,367.5      3,386.9       3,417.5      1,418.8     10,791.8
Subtotal LAnd Administration Modernization                                    2,828.8       1,932.0      3,393.9      3,417.5       1,418.8     12,990.9
B. Natural Resoume Management
1. improved Natural Resource Management                                     3,653.1      2,712.1      2,784.3       1,663.6      1,323.9     12,137.0
2. Fund for Upland Producers                                                1,286.7      1,426.8      1,463.9       1,501.9      1,541.0      7,220.3
3. Biodiversity Conservation                                                1,016.9      3,224.5      1,112.6        364.9        184.3       5,903.1
Subtotal Natural Resource Management                                           5,956.7      7,363.4      5,360.8      3,530.4      3,049.2      25,260.4
C. Project Administration                                                       684.3        668.5         743.3        733.2        752.2       3,581.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                            9,469.7      9,963.9       9,498.0      7,681.0      5,220.3     41,832.9
t0



HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                    . 
Expenditure Accounts by Years -- Base Costs
(USS '000)                                                                                        0
Base Cost                                     Foreign Exchange
1997        1998         1999        2000         2001        Total         %         Amount
L Investment Costs
A. Works
1. Civil Works                                       388.1      1,515.9       495.9       382.4         94.6      2,876.9           -           -
2. Mapping works                                         -           -        213.6           -            -       213.6
Subtotal Works                                         388.1      1,515.9       709.6        382.4        94.6      3,090.6           -
B. Goods
1. Vehicles                                        1,186.6       124.1        100.0        18.0         18.0      1,446.7        95.8      1,385.6
2. Computers                                         907.9       711.9        107.7        10.3            -      1,737.8        95.2      1,654.5
3. Office equipment and furniture                     34.4        32.3         13.4        13.4         13.4       107.0         50.0         53.5
4. Field equipment                                   277.8       559.2        311.7           -            -      1,148.7        93.3      1,071.2
Subtotal Goods                                        2,406.7      1,427.6      532.9         41.7        31.4      4,440.2         93.8      4,164.8
C. Consultants
1. Intemational Consultants                        1,161.4       930.3      1,062.5       657.3        647.1      4,458.6       100.0      4,458.6
2. Local Consultants                               1,987.3      1,830.8     3,073.2      2,421.1      1,456.0    10,768.4           -            -
3. Information Campaign                               50.3       231.6         27.0        21.9         21.9        352.6           -           -
Subtotal Consultants                                  3,199.0     2,992.8      4,162.7     3,100.3      2,124.9     15,579.6        28.6      4,458.6
D. Tramiing                                            604.4        661.2        502.3       390.3       256.0       2,414.2         6.8       164.6
E. Fund for Upland Producers                          1,270.2      1,372.8     1,372.8      1,372.8     1,372.8      6,761.3          -            -
Total Investment Costa                                  7,868.4      7,970.3      7,280.2     5,287.4      3,879.6    32,285.9        27.2      8,788.0
IL Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental recurrent costs
1. Salaries                                          496.0       601.0        369.5       295.0         56.9      1,818.6
2. Operating costs                                   385.8       433.2        705.6       883.9        451.2      2,859.8
3. Maintenace of equipment
andvehicles                                         228.5       154.9        199.0       317.6        110.9      1,010.9
Subtotal Incremental recurrent costs                  1,110.3     1,189.1      1,274.1      1,496.6      619.1      5,689.2
B. Operating costs for COHDEFOR                         20.1         21.7        21.7         21.7        21.7        106.9
Total Recurrent Costs                                   1,130.5      1,210.8      1,295.8     1,518.3       640.7      5,796.1           -
Total BASELINE COSTS                                     8,998.9     9,181.1      8,576.0      6,805.6     4,520.4     38,082.0        23.1      8,788.0
Physical Contingencies                                 349.3        405.7       330.9        214.8        130.1      1,430.8        30.7       439.4
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                             296.9       1,153.0     2,053.7     2,633.0      2,236.9      8,373.6          -            -
Foreign                                            47.1         96.7        111.5        70.6        88.1        414.0        100.0       414.0
Subtotal Inflation                                   344.0      1,249.7     2,165.2      2,703.7     2,325.0      8,787.6         4.7        414.0
Devaluation                                         -222.5      -872.6     -1,574.1     -2,043.2     -1,755.2    -6,467.5
Subtotal Price Contingencies                           121.5        377.1       591.1        660.5       569.8      2,320.1         17.8       414.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      9,469.7     9,963.9      9,498.0      7,681.0     5,220.3     41,832.9        23.0      9,641.4
Taxes                                                  301.5        382.7       273.9        185.6        172.9      1,316.6
Foreign Exchange                                      3,667.2     2,554.1      1,791.5       821.5       807.0      9,641.4



HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Components by Financiers
(US$ '000)
Locl
GOH                    ]DA               Beneicdaries               Total                               (Exd.       Dudes &
Amount       %        Amount        %       Amount         %        Amount         %       For. Exchb     Taxes)       Taxes
A. Land Adminsbtration Modernization
1. PilotPhase                                            157.1      7.1       2,042.0    92.9            -          -       2,199.1       5.3        919.3      1,279.8            -
2. Post Pilot Phase                                     2,557.1     23.7      8,234.7    76.3             -          -     10,791.8      25.8        724.8      10,041.1        25.9
Subtotal Land Adminbtraton Modernization                  2,714.1     20.9      10,276.7    79.1            -          -      12,990.9      31.1      1,644.1     11,320.8         25.9
B. Natural Resource Management
I. Improved Natural Resource Management                 1,547.9     12.8     10,589.1     87.2           -           -     12,137.0      29.0      6,574.2      5,230.4        332.3
2. Fund for Upland Producers                             505.4       7.0      5,271.2    73.0       1,443.7       20.0      7,220.3      17.3            -       6,714.9       505.4
3. Biodiversity Conservation                            1,230.0     20.8      4,673.1     79.2            -          -      5,903.1      14.1       1,335.2     4,277.6        290.4
Subtotal Natural Resource Management                      3,283.4     13.0      20,533.4    81.3       1,443.7       5.7      25,260.4      60.4      7,909.4     16,222.9      1,128.1
C. Project Administration                                   375.7     10.5       3,205.9    89.5            -          -       3,581.6       8.6         87.9      3,331.1        162.6
Total Disbursement                                           6,373.2     15.2     34,016.0    81.3       1,443.7        3.5     41,8329      100.0       9,641.4     30,874.9      1,316.6
O1 N



HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Suggested Allocation of Proceeds
(US$ thousands)
Loan Amount                                       Disbursement
(1) Works
(a) Works - Real Estate Registry                                     50.00                                               85
(b) Works - Natural Resource                                         250.00                                              70
(c) Works for Forest Management Plans                                75.00                                               70
(d) Other Works                                                     2,100.00                                              85
(2) Goods and Vehicles
(a) Goods - Real Estate Registry                                     600.0                                         100%. FE, 80% LE
(b) Other Goods                                                      2 300.0                                       100%. FE, 80% LE
(3) Consultant Services and Studies
(a) Consultants - Real Estate Registry                               450.0                                               100
(b) Consultants - Management Plans                                   1,200.0                                             100
(c) Other Consultants                                               14,000.0                                             100
(4) Training
(a) Training - Real Estate Registry                                  90.0                                               100
(b) Other TraIning                                                  2,200.0                                             100
(5) Subprojects for Upland Producers Fund                               5,200.0                                             100
(6) PPF                                                                 2000.0                                              100
(6) Incremental Recurrent Costs
(a) IRC - Real Estate Registry                                       800.0                            90/ first two years, 50% next two, 20% thereafter
(b) Other IRC                                                        1,300.0                          909 first two years, 50% next two, 20% tereafter
(8) Unallocated                                                         1-385.0                                              0
TOTAL                                                                  34,000.0



HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Standard
Disbursed During Semester               Cumulative Disbursement           PrefUe bt
[BRD Fiscal Year                   Semester Ending                              Amount              %of Total       Amount   % of Total           % ofTotal
1997                             Jun-97                                         -          0%                       0      0%                   0
1998                             Dec-97                                   4,000.0          121%                 4,000      12%                 10
Jun-98                                  4,000.0          12%                   8,000     24%                  IS
1999                             Dec-98                                   3,900.0          11%                  11,900     35%                 26
Jun-99                                  3,900.0          11%                  15,800     46%                 38
2000                             Dec-99                                   3,950.0          12%                  19,750     58%                 54
Jun-00                                  3,950.0          12%                  23,700     70%                 70
2001                             Dec-00                                   3,000.0          9%/,                 26,700     79%/,               82
lur.-O                                 3,000.0          9Yo                  29,700     87%/                90
2002                             Dec-01                                   2,150.0          6%                   31,850     94%                 98
Jun-02                                  2,150.0           6%                  34,000     100%/6              100
av The Loan assumed to become effective during the last quarter of 1997. Totals may not add due to rounding Includes price and physical contingencies.
b/ Standard Disbursement Profile for agriculture sector in Honduras (June 1995).
ED



Annex G
Page 1 of 6
HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT MONITORING, REPORTING AND EVALUATION
1. MONITORING
1.    The establishment of an efficient project monitoring system is instrumental to assure the
consistency of project activities. A set of monitoring indicators, based on the project's logical
framework analysis, is shown in Table A. The project's monitoring system will be elaborated
separately for the land administration component, the upland fund subcomponent, and the forest
management and biodiversity subcomponents. The first two components will be focused on the
PCU in the Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock (SAG) and the last two components will be
focused on AFE-COHDEFOR. The project monitoring system will be based on a Management
Information System (MIS) with database which organizes pertinent physical and financial
information.
A. LAND ADMINISTRATION COMPONENT
2.    This component involves coordination of actions among a number of participating
institutions at federal and field operations level. A detailed schedule of activities, costs, and
timetable have been developed in Project Management software in close collaboration with all the
implementing institutions. This schedule will provide the basis for monitoring financial flows.
The MIS will provide information regarding the progress in the pilot and subsequent expansion
sites, and financial parameters will be adjusted for the expansion phase, based on the experience
gained in the implementation of the pilot phase. Each territorial area for which information is
being acquired and registered will be treated as a subproject. Approval of initiating activities in
each area will be determined on the basis of compliance with minimum criteria for implementation
(formation of territorial commissions, signing agreements with the municipality and other
agencies, recruiting an implementing field team, training relevant staff and consultants in
procedures, and initiating promotional activities). A decentralized database will be developed, so
that field implementing units have access to needed information and can generate information to
be aggregated by the PCU.
B. UPLAND FUND SUBCOMPONENT
3.    This subcomponent involves setting up of an independent financial and approval
mechanism for selecting and funding technical assistance and research projects in the upland areas
of the project, and possibly the buffer zones areas of the complementary GEF project under
preparation. Monitoring of the overall setup and management of the fund will be carried out
under the IDB-assisted Agricultural Technology Project. The PCU will have access to this
monitoring database and will develop a register of selected projects.



Annex G
Page 2 of 6
C. FOREST MANAGEMENT AND BIODIVERSITY SUBCOMPONENTS
4.    These subcomponents would both be implemented by AFE-COHDEFOR through the
normal operating procedures of this institution. AFE-COHDEFOR would monitor activities
through a database maintained in its administrative offices, based on an MIS system that will be
developed in the initial implementation of the project by the same consulting team developing the
MIS for the other components. The MIS system would be linked to the monitoring information
base in AFE-COHDEFOR and the Department of Protected Areas (DAPVS), that will also be in
charge of monitoring activities in the proposed GEF Biodiversity Project.
5.    Technical assistance in monitoring and evaluation would be provided to all the monitoring
agencies during the first year of the Project. While some working experience exists in these areas,
it is essential for a period of time that the units responsible for planning, monitoring and
evaluation receive assistance from a qualified consultant, in order to assist in the design and
operation of the system. TORs for such a consultant are included in the Project Implementation
Plan.
2. REPORTING
6.    To the extent possible, reporting procedures within each component would follow existing
institutional reporting systems, in order to avoid duplication of effort. The complete project
reporting system would produce different types of reports, depending on the user level involved.
The PCU would compile monitoring reports and a single report will be received on the progress
with the two main components and their subcomponents.
7.    The PCU will prepare and submit quarterly reports to IDA (March 31, June 3 0,
September 30, and December 31). The quarterly reports would contain the current update of the
MIS, with all data provided in a compatible data format. The PCU and AFE-COHDEFOR
administrative offices as a minimum would acquire an internet connection to allow easy transfer of
reporting information to the IDA Task Team supervising the project. In addition, for the Upland
Funds subcomponent, monthly reports would be prepared by the PCU on the status of the
proposals selected in the Upland Fund register. The private financial institution managing the
Upland funds would maintain financial monitoring of the status of payments of selected projects.
8.    Quarterly reports would contain information on (a) status of project implementation;
(b) identification of problems and recommended solutions; (c) progress on monitorable indicators;
and (d) status of legal covenants. For the final year's report, in addition to the above information,
the PCU will provide a complete picture of the project's development over the year. The June 30
report of each year would serve as a point of discussion of the planned activities for the next
year's annual workprogram (POA), since a draft of the POAs will need to be submitted to the
Finance Ministry before September 30 of a given year. Tables of indicators would be designed to
facilitate comparison of the current year's data with that of previous years.



Annex G
Page 3 of 6
9.    Auditing would be contracted by the PCU for all components. This would be in addition
to the regular audit requirements of the various agencies receiving funds directly from the national
budget as part of the counterpart funding. A multi-year audit contract would be sought with
consultants. The Government would hire independent auditing services satisfactory to IDA to
prepare annual audits at the end of each Honduran fiscal year, starting January 1996. The audit
reports would include separate opinions on the use of SOEs and the special account. The PCU
would submit the audit reports to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
International consultants would conduct technical audits of the land administration and natural
resources component at the end of year 2 and year 4. These would be critical given the newness
of the folio real approach in Honduras and the lack of experience in AFE-COHDEFOR with
decentralized procedures
3. EVALUATION
10.   The project would develop and implement a range of evaluation studies to measure the
impact of the subcomponent investments and to provide appropriate feedback to improve project
methodology and implementation. In addition, a pilot evaluation will be carried out in Year 2 of
the first phase of activities in the forest management sub-component and of the pilot phase
activities in the land administration component. A joint action plan will be prepared by GOH and
IDA identifying the critical actions which need to be implemented prior to execution of the
expansion phases of the land administration component and the forest management
subcomponent. These reviews will also evaluate progress in the Upland Fund and identify critical
actions, if deemed necessary, for further implementation of activities in this sub-component. The
PCU would be in charge of drafting Terms of Reference (TORs) in consultation with IDA and for
contracting the consulting services for the following:



HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Performance Monitoring Indicators
I      L                                is0 
Strengthen the technical  * IDA loan ($ 34 million).   *  Equipped field (3) and  Willingness to         *  Staff technically capable of
and administrative     * Counterpart funds.          regional offices (11).     decentralize                 carrying out their
capacity of AFE-       * Vehicles, offices.       .  Decentralized authority    administrative authority.    responsibilities
COHDEFOR at the        * Training and consultant     structure of field offices.    Ability to procure good    *  MIS of forest estate that
central, regional and   services.                 .  Trained national and       and services in a timely     allows monitoring of resource
local levels, to plan,                               regional staff and private    manner.               *  Environmental and social
execute and supervise                                forest managers.                                        concerns incorporated into
forestry management.                              .  Catalogue of national forest                            procedures
estate.
Bring significant areas   .   Contracts for plans and  .   Master plans for 344,000    Inability to involve  *   Increased area of forest under
of national forest under   studies.                   has. of public forest land)   communities in planning   sustainable management with
sustainable            *   Survey equipment.          and production plans for    process.                   public involvement.
management and         *   GIS computer database      110,00 has.               Technical limitations on    *   Increased income stream to
increase outputs and       on management plans   *   ElAs and 60 public         development of adequate      local people from forests and
environmental functions    at field level.            consultations on plans.   plans.                       increased forest product
of the forest resource  *   ElAs contracted.      *   Priority watershed plans                                output.
base.                  *   Community dialogue         for six areas.                                     *   Conservation of priority
and plan for          *   Auctions for 30,000 has. of                             watersheds and environmental
involvement of             national forest areas.                                 forestry practiced.
populations.



HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Performance Monitoring Indicators
0&JECT11TFS                 NPINIS                     Ol'l-PtIS            RISKS AND) CRITICAL    01" TAIES AD) 1IJ1PACTS
(Resources pwrovi(le(l lor    Goo(ds and, eri ices p)ro(uIced(  ASSI'.\ IPTIONS       (ol pro.ject acti it ies)
I)roject activities)         b! tile pro.ject)
Strengthen the        .   Visitors centers and    .   4 Parks with eco-tourism  Willingness to pay       *   Increased income from
protected areas system     interpretive trails for    attractions.              entrance fees.               protected areas.
in Honduras with           eco-tourism.           .   10 protected areas under    Administrative ability to    *   Freezing of invasions and
improved infrastructure,  .   Creation of self-       improved management.      manage and allocate fund.     encroachment in protected
self-financing             financing fund.        *   Implementation of self-                                areas as result of clear
mechanisms, clear      *   Demarcation of             financing fund.                                        demarcation and improved
demarcation of area        protected areas.                                                                  protection.
boundaries and         *   Training of current and                                                       *   Improved administrative
improved training for      new staff.                                                                         capacity to manage priority
staff.                                                                                                        biodiversity.
Channel technical     .   Create an Upland Fund  .   120 Proposals for upland    Selection process is too    .   Increased productivity of
assistance and research    for rural producers.       for technical assistance  controlled or politicized.   agriculture and forestry.
funds to upland        *   Finance demand-driven      funded.                   Not enough producers can  *   Improvement of research and
producers and NGOs         research and extension.  .   Strengthened services of 40  organize to find service  extension services available
and producer or        *   Evaluate experience for    NGOs and producer         providers and prepare        to upland farmer.
community                  expansion to other         organizations.            proposals.               *   Improved organization of
organizations with         upland areas.          *  Focused research on upland                              6500 upland producers.
experience in                                        agriculture and forestry                            *   Creation of successful models
innovative technology                                management.                                             for community forestry.
transfer programs.                                                                                                                         E 
o m
0%



HONDURAS                                                                     0% 
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Performance Monitoring Indicators
Pilot and evaluate a   .   Pilot a system of folio    *   Folio Real established in    Loss of political will.  *   Improved tenure security as
viable system for land     real in Comayagua.         four Departments of       Complexity of system         incentive for investmnent in
administration based on  .   Land adjudication and    Honduras.                 cannot be maintained.         four Departnents of
an integrated folio real   titling within pilot   .   Modernized institution for  Incentives to maintain      Honduras.
legal and physical         areas.                     Property Registry.        system are not adequate.   *   Greater tenure security for the
information base.      *   Based on pilot approve   *   Increased number of                                   rural poor.
a new registry legal      landholder with clear title.                       *   Reduced forest conversion in
framework.            *   Clear definition of land                                frontier areas of Yoro and
*   Establish a new            and forestry tenure in                                 Olancho and reduced forest
institution for Property  project area.                                           degradation elsewhere.
Registry.             *   Coordinated workprogram                            *   Modern land administration.
*   Create a system for        among DEC, NPR, INA,
maintaining folio real.    and municipal cadastre.



Annex Hl
Page 1 of 7
HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.    The economic analysis of the proposed project has focused only on the economic
impact of the productive activities under the Natural Resource Management Component,
representing about 50 percent of project investment costs, for which reasonable benefit
calculations can be made. The other components Oand administration, increasing
government and community knowledge on soil and forest management, institution building
etc.) are regarded as necessary pre-conditions for avoiding undesirable social, economic
and environmental costs. The expected benefits of enhancing the legal security of
landholders, for example, would derive from: (a) resolving long-standing tenure conflicts
which have denied government and private landholders the ability to manage forests for
their own benefits; (b) creating a more transparent and efficient land market; and (c)
providing a mechanism to preserve the value of future investments in the cadastral and
land adjudication processes. The impact of increasing government and community
knowledge on managing forests and soils would be to increase responsibility of
government and communities for the management of their natural resources and enable
them to make more efficient choices in land management and better implement their
management activities.
2.    Land Administration Modernization. This component does not lend itself to a
cost/benefit analysis, since many of the benefits cannot be meaningfully quantified.
Benefits include: (a) fulfillment of the basic purpose of the registry (i.e. provision of legal
security to landholders); (b) transparency in land markets; (c) provision of the basic inputs
required by municipalities to carry out town planning and implement fiscal policy;
(d) contribution to government and local efforts to control access to and use of public
forest areas; (e) physical security for the Public Registry (PR) data base; and (f) an
improved service to the public, including a potential for remote access. There is some
relevant research on Honduras that calculates the potential returns from (a) and (b) (i.e.
providing commercial lenders with the security necessary to provide credit to landholders
engaged in market agriculture or forestry). A recent University of Maryland study
rigorously compared a small sample of Honduran land reform beneficiaries with and
without legal title and concluded that the titled group achieved on average a 5 percent
increase in income (IRR 2 17 percent) attributable to holding legal title.
3.    A least-cost analysis was carried out during project design to evaluate the financial
costs of implementation alternatives. The resulting cost (approximately US$2.85/ha for
institutional development and completing the legal land information base for 37 percent of
Honduras' land area, including over 50 percent of the country's production forests) is
extremely low. This is possible because Honduras has significant experience through its
twenty-year land titling program and is relatively better off within the region in terms of
the existing information and data infrastructure. An additional analysis of the potential for



Annex Hl
Page 2 of 7
financial sustainability of the modernized registry system to be put in place by the project
was carried out (see project file: Korczowski, 1996. Sistema del Folio Real Nacional y
SostenibilidadFinanciera), drawing upon the experience elsewhere in Latin America.
4.    Natural Resource Management (NRM). Honduras' forests are one of its most
valuable economic assets. The forest management activities proposed in the project would
lead to improved management of the forests (national, ejido and private) and, in particular,
the pine forests. The current status of these forests varies greatly, but in almost all cases it
can be improved through the application of simple forest management techniques. These
forests, without management, are estimated to produce between 2 and 4 m3 of commercial
wood per hectare per year. With a minimum of management and silvicultural treatments,
this could easily be doubled to between 4 and 8 m3/ha/yr. A recent discussion paper
(Agricultural Development Program of Honduras, 1996) implies the potential for a ten- to
eighteen-fold increase over 1994 state revenues from stumpage charges in national forests
dedicated to timber production -- from US$4.8 million (current dollars) to US$47 to
US$87 million. Additionally, annual export earnings from well-managed industrial forests
have the long-term potential to reach US$200 to US$400 million. Export earnings from
1990 to 1994 totaled U$103.6 million.
5.    For the purpose of estimating economic benefits to the forest management
activities, several representative forestry and farm models were developed The present
and projected values for the main economic variables were considered, using market prices
for the financial analysis and economic prices for the estimation of overall impact. For the
latter, a standard conversion factor of 0.85 was considered and a conversion factor of 0.7
was used to obtain an approximation of the opportunity cost of labor. Forest management
costs include forest inventory, demarcation of parcels, road network design, environmental
and social assessments and operational planning and supervision. The models developed
include:
(a)   One hectare models: (i) a 20-year-old, well-stocked stand of Pinus
Caribea, with reasonable access harvested at age 40; (ii) a moderately
accessible 65-year-old, poorly-stocked stand to be converted in year 1,
naturally regenerated and harvested in year 42; and (iii) a 65-year-old, well-
stocked stand with reasonable access, to be converted in year 1, naturally
regenerated and harvested in year 42.
(b)   A project model for the entire 545,000 hectares project area, of which 53
percent is production forest. The model compares the with-project
scenario with three possible without-project scenarios: (i) a "low" scenario
-- expansion of forest management activities on national lands marginally
increases over the current pace (1994-96); (ii) a "medium" scenario -- a 50
percent increase in the rate of expansion of forest management activities,
with attention and priority placed on commercial management of well-
stocked pine forests with minimal attention to other forest areas; and (iii) a



Annex Hl
Page 3 of 7
"high" scenario, similar to "medium" except that a more balanced focus
(industrial, rehabilitation, conservation) is given to forest management.
6.    In all cases, extremely conservative increases in productivity were assumed to
result from management activities. As noted above, management inputs could be expected
to double forest productivity. In this case, for the one-hectare models, productivity
increases of around 33 percent were assumed. For the 20-year project model, overall
productivity increases of 13 percent, 7 percent and 4 percent were assumed with project
against without-project low, medium, and high scenarios, respectively. These estimates
were based on the assumption that productivity gains only accrue from treatment of stands
less than 25 years of age. While the operations are both financially and economically viable
-- in all cases because there exists standing timber which can be profitably exploited with
relatively low per unit investments -- the absolute retums to improved management are
quite marginal and sensitive to management costs. Project work would include the
expansion and strengthening of the current forestry information system and treatment
impact monitoring to assist in future decision making using sounder economic criteria.
Table 1. Summary of One-Hectare Forestry Models
NPV Inc.
NPV a-Net                   Invest. &    NPV
Activity    Production    Income        Increase     Operation    Inc.    B/C
Model         (m3)         (U  $)   _     (%)          Costs    Benefits  Ratio
_______=_____ w/o  with   w/o  with  Yield  Income    (US$)         (US$)
20 year old P.
caribea         72    97    225   284    35       26        26         86      3.3
65 year old P.                                                                     l
caribea,
poorly-stocked  145   192   921   921    32                 20        145      7.3
65 year old P.
caribea, well-
stocked        215   262   2,71  2,71   22                  18        145      8.1
/ - all NPVs at 10 percent discount rate
7.    The project model (Table 2 below) operates over 20 years (1997 to 2016).
Extremely conservative assumptions were made regarding timber yields, timber prices and
impacts of silvicultural treatments on productivity. Productivity increases were assumed
to result from improved forest protection, reduced deforestation/degradation and forest
fire, in addition to silvicultural treatments. Initial merchantable volumes were assumed to
be 80 and 30 m3/ha for well- and poorly-stocked stands, respectively. No harvesting was
assumed for any stand less than 40 years of age. Stumpage values of US$23 and US$11
per cubic meter were assigned to well-stocked and poorly-stocked stands, respectively,
under the assumption that the lower volume stands would have higher costs associated



Annex H1
Page 4 of 7
their harvests. Rates of harvest were constrained to reflect management objectives of
bringing all production forest into a 40-year rotation schedule with even-age management
in individual management compartments. The rate of conversion from present age
structure to a regular rotation was 65 years, based on a parallel objective to maintain
regular harvests during the conversion period while maintaining the presence of
mature/over-mature stands (for habitat purposes) during the first 40 years. A 10 percent
unit increase was assumed in costs for the "low" scenario to adjust overhead upward to
reflect current (estimated) overheads in national forest and to create a penalty for lack of
investment in training, information systems, etc. No "institutional efficiency penalties"
were assessed in the "medium" and "high" scenario models only to avoid overly-biasing
the outcomes. In reality, there would undoubtedly be some costs associated with these
scenarios' significantly lower investments in training of personnel.
8.    As with the one-hectare forestry models, the results indicate that the presence of
immediately exploitable forests ensures that even marginally efficient operations can be
both financially and economically attractive. A sensitivity analysis showed that results
were very robust. Costs increases and stumpage value decreases in the order of 50
percent were required to undermine the viability of all of the scenarios.
Table 2. Summary of Project Area Forestry Model (1997 - 2016)
Forest
Area    Pine Pro-                          Fire,    Direct
Under    duction                            Area     Local
Total  Effective    Forest,    Volume  Deforesta- Affected  Employ-
Activity    Area   Mgmt.  Treatments Harvested    tion         Yearly    ment
Model    (ha)    (ha)         (ha)      (000 m3)  (ha/20 yr.)  (ha)      (yrs.)
Without
Project
Low         545,000  180,000    41,951       1,840    180,000    10,300    2,525
Medium               203,500    71,900      3,460     135,000    8,200     3,670
High                 380,000    91,700      3,970     110,000    7,200     5,320
With        545,000  545,000    130,800     6,640      75,000    5,400     7,300
Project
9.    For purposes of comparing incremental project costs and benefits, the "medium"f
scenario was chosen as the most likely outcome for the without-project comparator. The
medium scenario assumes that the major focus would be on timber extraction from
existing well-stocked forests with the minimum investment in overall forest management.
Based on this comparison, the present value (10 percent discount rate)of the sub-
component's incremental benefits are US$17.6 million based on an incremental timber
production of 3.2 million cubic meters. The IRR is greater than 50 percent.



Annex HI
Page 5 of 7
Table 3. Summary of Timber Earnings (US$'000) from Project Area Model
NPV Incremental       NPV
Activity   NPV L    NPV               With-Project     Incremental
Model   Costs       Benefits B/C        Costs           Benefits     B/C
Without
Project
Low           4,819    11,450   2.4        9,458           29,624       3.1
Medium        6,829    23,503   3.4        7,448           17,571       2.4
High         10,018    26,135   2.6        4,260           14,940       2.5
With         14,277    41,076   2.9
Project
/1 - All NPVs are at 10 percent
10.   Fund for Upland Producers. This sub-component would provide technical
assistance and training to 6,500 poor rural households for natural forest management,
hilislope agriculture, and livestock. Actual activities under the project would vary
considerably depending on community demands, the location and quality of the producer's
land and the technical skills and initiative of that producer. A set of representative
household models of the types of activities proposed, with estimated costs and returns
over time, were prepared to determine financial and economic viability. The focus of the
agricultural models were basic grains (corn, beans, and rice), but supplemental financial
models for livestock (meat and milk) were also developed. A review of a series of case
studies from Honduras provided the basis for estimations.
11.   A global analysis of the impact of the upland fund was also carried out, based on
basic grain crops and forestry. The main expected interventions from the fund would be:
(a)   agriculture - increased planting density (corn crops), halting burning of
fields, contour cultivation, crop residue management, "green mulch" and
contour vegetative barriers of vetiver;
(b)   forestry - silvicultural treatments (thinning, assisted natural regeneration),
pine forest management/harvesting, and forest protection (fire,
encroachment).
12.   Calculated benefits do not include potential off-site impacts of reduced soil erosion
and run-off. The primary incentives for adoption would be on-site benefits (i.e. increased
and more stable yields, lower inputs). Yield increases assumed were conservative (50



Annex Hi
Page 6 of 7
percent) relative to yield increases reported in case studies (100 percent - 200 percent) and
well within the technically feasible potential. Economic prices were based on commodity
prices (1994/96) reported by the United States Department of Agriculture, Foreign
Agricultural Services, for sales of US grains in Mexico and Central America and local
market prices. Over 20 years it was assumed that an average of 2.5 other households
would adopt the agricultural technologies extended, increasing the economic benefits
across an additional 10,000 households. For forestry, the same forest structure, yield
impacts and incremental production were assumed as in the national forest models.
Estimates of deforestation were developed based on national level data, and the assumed
"with project" 60 percent reduction is based on Honduras CIDA project data. A recent
project review found reductions in deforestation rates of 85 to 90 percent resulting from
the provision of forest usufruct instruments and extension services to community groups.
13.   Based on the crop activity models, three farm models were tested. All of the
models were financially viable, suggesting that beneficiaries are likely to be interested in
the adoption of the improved farming measures. The three models are:
(a)   Subsistence farm - 1.05 ha with beans and corn. NPV (10 percent) =
$1,197; IRR > 50 percent.
(b)   Subsistence farm with livestock - 1.05 ha farm with 1 dual purpose cow.
NPV (10 percent) = $1,507; IRR > 50 percent.
(c)   Subsistence farm with rice - 1.17 ha farm with .12 ha of rice. NPV (10
percent) = $1,362: IR > 50 percent.
Assuming that the project subsidizes extension and the initial germplasm introductions
(i.e., for cover crops and vegetative barriers) and that adoption of technologies across the
farm are phased in over 4 years (i.e., the farmers experiment with and adopt the
technologies at their own pace), there is no decline in family income in the first years of
adoption.
Table 4. Summary of Economic Benefits From Upland Producers' Fund
NPV , Incremental             NPV, Incremental
(US  000)                     Benefit
Activity                  Benefit    Cost      B/C          US$'000
Agriculture                11,134      3,497    2.9
Forest management           3,349      1,453    5.2
Total                      20,548      4,950    4.2                 9,533
All NPVs at 10 percent



Annex Hi
Page 7 of 7
14.   Biodiversity Protection. The protection of Honduras's national parks and
reserves is essential to: (a) reduce or eliminate encroachment of agricultural activities and
impacts from fire and other activities; (b) increase visitation, particularly by eco-tourists in
order to increase foreign exchange income; and (c) improve the protection of the nation's
ecology and biodiversity. It is not possible, with the information currently available in
Honduras, to estimate the expected increases in direct income to the protected area system
through, say, construction and operation of modem visitors' centers and improved road
access to the areas; nor the potential increases in tourist income from persons visiting the
country entirely or partially because of the improvements in the protected areas system. It
is clear, however, from the example of neighboring Costa Rica, and the possible spill-over
from joint (e.g., Central American) ecotourism efforts, that these benefits could be
substantial.
15.   Estimates generated during project design suggest that with current practices and
the state maintaining its traditional role, investments of about US$10 million would be
required in equipment and infrastructure, with recurrent annual costs of about US$5
million, to operate the system in an adequate fashion. Project interventions are expected
to assist in lowering the state's costs by assisting in rationalizing priorities and roles of
government (national and local), communities, private sector and NGOs in protected area
management. Preliminary estimates show the potential to reduce state recurrent costs to
around US$2.5 to US$3.0 million per year while generating income through tourism of
between US$1 and US$1.9 million per year.
16.   Conclusion. As summarized in Table 5 below, 50 percent of project investment
ftunds going to directly productive investments would produce measurable economic
returns necessary to justify almost 75 percent of the total proposed project costs. The
project as designed is a coherent whole, however, and would result in substantial longer-
term benefits in land tenure and social well-being that have not been factored into the
economic evaluation.
Table 5. Summary of Potential Economic Benefits
(US$ millions)
Present Value     Net
(10% disc)    Present   Benefit-Cost
Component                            Base    Investment and   Value of      Ratio
Costs    Operation Costs  Benefits
Natural Resources Management         23,086       25,513         n.a.        n.a.
Forest Management                   10,961       14,277        17,571        1.2
Upland Producers' Fund              6,761        6,876          n.a.        n.a.
Extension                      4,221         4,950         9,533        1.9
Research/training              2,540         1,926         n.a.         n.a.
Biodiversity Conservation           5,364        4,360          n.a.        n.a.
Land Administration Modernization   11,785        9,047          n.a.        n.a.
Project Coordination Unit            3,211        2,434          n.a.        n.a.
Total                 38,082       36,994        27,104        n.a.



Annex H2
Page 1 of 27
HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS AND MANAGEMENT PLAN
INTRODUCTION
1.    The proposed project is a pilot which would provide financing to: (a) modernize
the system of rural land titling and rural land registration; (b) strengthen Government's
forest administration agency, the Administraci6n Forestal del Estado-Corporaci6n
Hondurenla de Desarrollo Forestal (AFE), while incorporating surrounding populations in
forest and protected areas management and wise use; (c) establish a decentralized fund for
support to upland producers for agricultural, livestock and forest technology generation
and transfer; and (d) assist in prioritization of protected areas and protected area's
investments, providing infrastructure and participatory management for some key parks
and reserves, while promoting self-financing of the system. Among the project's central
goals is to increase the participation of municipalities, communities, and small farmers,
extending successful pilot experiences with locally financed and managed programs to
Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock (SAG) agencies. The project has been assigned to
Environmental Assessment Category B.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    The overall objective of the project is to increase the productivity and
environmental value of the forest and agricultural resource base. The project continues
support of the natural resource management and land administration activities initiated in
the AGSAC, and expands its support to include modernization of the land registry system,
improve forest management, and technology generation and transfer to upland farmers
through actions in priority areas.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3 .    The project would have two complementary components:
4.    Land Administration - under this component the project would finance
equipment for mapping, surveying, and management information systems, staff and
operating costs; consultant services; technical assistance and training for:
(a)   pilot implementation of a modern land registry system at municipal level
based on a folio real;
(b)   cadastral activities;



Annex H2
Page 2 of 27
(c)   land adjudication and titling in priority natural resource management areas;
and
(d)   support for conflict resolution.
5.    These four subcomponents aim to gradually transform the traditional, personal
registry system to a parcel-based system, while supporting cadastral and titling activities
in priority areas through the National Agrarian Institute (INA) and the national cadastre
(DEC). The component would also support the delimitation and rationalization of land
and forest rights on public and community lands within the project areas. Particular
support would be given to the regularization of three type of farmers: small-scale farmers
without title who settled on national lands before the passage of the AML in 1992;
indigenous peoples; and groups of farmers interested in social forestry and conservation
activities on public forest lands in their vicinity. A pilot land registry modernization
program would be undertaken in 16 municipalities of the department of Comayagua to
test the methodology and institutional working arrangements.
6.    Natural Resource Management - under this component the project would
finance staff and operating costs; consultant services; equipment for computers, mapping,
and survey activities; vehicles; technical assistance and training, and infrastructure for:
(a)   Forest management.  Integrated forest management planning and plan
implementation in eleven public forest management units (unidades de
gesti6n) in three administrative forest regions, totaling about 5,450 kmi,
and institutional strengthening including:
(i)   forest land tenure - establishing a database/registry of public forest
lands; delimiting and marking public forest boundaries; carrying out
a census of occupants of public forest lands along with diagnostics
and analyses of traditional rights and uses of public forest lands by
occupants; initiating the process of formalizing traditional rights
and uses of occupants of public forest lands; and entering into legal
agreements (contratos de usufructo) with communities and groups
over their participation in the responsibilities and benefits of forest
management;
(ii)   public forest management - carrying out three regional, forest
sector environmental assessments; developing or revising eleven
forest management master plans; formalizing the master plans
through a process of public consultation; inventorying 298,500
hectares of forest; developing detailed management plans for
146,500 hectares of pine production forest; formalizing the detailed
management plans through a process of environmental assessment
and consultation with affected groups; implementation of
management in 146,500 hectares of pine production forest plans



Annex H2
Page 3 of 27
(silvicultural treatments - 116,500 hectares and timber auctions -
30,000 hectares); implementing a forest protection program in
545,000 hectares of forest; rehabilitating 45 km of forest roads and;
developing and implementing 6 Protected Area plans in locally
important protected areas not covered by the Biodiversity
component;
(iii)  forest regulation and control - decentralizing administrative,
budgetary and monitoring functions for forest management to the
regional levels; assisting to improve agility and coverage of the
Department of Norms and Control as the entity responsible for
technical and environmental standards and compliance. See Box 1;
(iv)   applied forestry research - strengthening of AFE's permanent
sample plot program for monitoring distribution, growth, and
regenerative capacity of the commercial forest; and
(v)   institutional strengthening of AFE-COHDEFOR - providing
support to national and field level offices, upgrading of professional
skills of staff, improving systems of forest information and
monitoring, and technical assistance in developing new, more
detailed operational standards and guidelines for forest technical
and environmental aspects of forest management and regulations,
through logistic support (vehicles, office and field equipment,
rehabilitation of forest management unit offices, operational
expenses), training (in key areas for forest management and
administration), information systems (in order to systematize,
organize, provide access to biophysical and forestry sector
information necessary for planning and monitoring of forest
resources) and, technical assistance (in support of implementation
activities associated with forest land tenure, environmental
assessment, institutional decentralization and administration,
information systems, training, forest management, forestry research,
promotion and extension, forest regulatory policy, community
participation and public consultation, and legal advice).
(b)   Upland Producers Fund.  To finance proposals from producer
organizations, NGOs, and municipal governments including staff and
operating costs, consultant services, research, technical assistance, and
training for the generation and transfer of agriculture, livestock, and forest
technologies appropriate to upland areas. The Fund would provide a grant
window, independent of SAG, for channeling research and extension
activities to upland farmers and forest producers which include:



Annex H2
Page 4 of 27
(i)   agriculture and forestry extension - providing financing for
extension, technical assistance and training to community groups
(6,500 households) in sustainable production systems for hillside
agriculture, livestock and natural forest management, and to
municipalities for management of ejido forests and of 22 municipal
microwatersheds;
(ii)   agriculture and forestry research - providing financing for applied
research in priority topic areas for sustainable hillside agriculture
and natural forest management;
(iii)  training - of professionals and university students in applied
research and application and extension of appropriate natural
resource management systems for uplands and natural forest; and
(iv)  technical assistance - in support of the institutional and technical
aspects of the funds implementation (monitoring, supervision, and
technical quality).
(c)   Biodiversity Conservation.  To finance staff and operating costs,
vehicles, infrastructure, research equipment, consultant services,
workshops, and training materials for:
(i)    management and protection of protected areas - within selected
forest blocks of national priority, including development of a Parks'
Guard system; delimitation of protected areas; infrastructure
development; management planning; and support to community
activities in buffer zones (to be financed by GEF through the
Upland Producers' Fund) which are compatible with biodiversity
conservation objectives.
(ii)   studies - of the traditional land uses within the protected areas and
the biodiversity values.
(iii)  development of mechanisms for self-financing - for the
protected areas system, and consultation on these mechanisms with
the National Committee on Biodiversity, the Natural Resources
and Environment Secretariat (SERNA), SAG, NGOs, and the
private sector.
(iv)   development of an improved biodiversity information base - as
part of the geographic information system being developed for use
by AFE as a tool of national resource management.



Annex H2
Page 5 of 27
PROJECT AREA
7.    Natural resource management activities would be concentrated on important
forested areas in the Departments of Yoro, Olancho, Francisco Morazan and a small
portion of Atlantida (Olanchito, located administratively in the Yoro region), including the
adjacent uplands and priority watersheds, and additional areas of key biodiversity as
included under the Biodiversity Conservation subcomponent (to be determined). Land
administration modernization would be initiated in the Department of Comayagua, and
later extended to Cortes, San Francisco Morazan, Olancho, and Yoro.
TABLE 1. FORESTS IN PROJECT REGIONS                       |
FOREST                                                           FOREST AREA
REGION       HOLDRIDGE LIFE ZONES            FOREST TYPE           (BY TYPE)
Francisco  * Humid Sub-tropical Moist Forest  * Pine              * 332,500 ha
Morazan  * Sub-humid Sub-tropical Dry     * Broadleaf              * 67,300 ha
Forest                        * Mixed Pine/Broadleaf    * 80,600 ha
* Humid Lower Montane Moist
Forest
Olancho   * Sub-humid Tropical Dry Forest   * Pine                * 480,300 ha
* Humid Sub-tropical Moist Forest  * Broadleaf            187,500 ha
* Per-humid Lower Montane Wet   * Mixed Pine/Broadleaf    390,000 ha
Forest
* Humid Tropical Moist Forest
Yoro      * Humid Tropical Moist Forest   - Pine                    129,300 ha
* Sub-humid Tropical Dry Forest   * Broadleaf             167,800 ha
* Humid Sub-tropical Moist Forest  * Mixed Pine/Broadleaf  49,500 ha
* Per-humid Lower Montane Wet
i _________  Forest
8.    The project area is characterized by climates ranging from sub-humid sub-tropical
(.-1,000 mm rain yr- ) to per-humid tropical (>>1,600mm yf 1) and mean annual
temperatures ranging from 160 (montane zones) to 240 C (lowlands). The principal
general soil groupings in the area include the udults, udalfs, and tropaquepts; the
predominate parent materials are limestones and metamorphic rocks of diverse
composition. In the specific project areas, all lands are classified (at 1:250,000) as Land
Use Capability Class IV (very severe limitations for cultivation requiring careful selection
of crop plants and application of soil conservation and management) and classes V
(unsuited to cultivation, suitable for improved pasture) to VII (unsuited to cultivation, use
restricted to range, wildlife or forest); though such classification should be taken as
indicative only given both the scale and the classification's being primarily developed for
temperate, mechanized agriculture. Pine forests predominate and the project units
comprise areas which are among the major timber production zones in the country; there
are some 1.5 million hectares of production forest with an estimated standing volume of
(very loose estimate) 93.6 million m3 of timber.



Annex H2
Page 6 of 27
9.    In biodiversity terms, the value of the project area is reflected in its quantity of
protected areas (17 area, both declared and proposed). While "quantities of protected
areas" is obviously a rather poor proxy for defining biodiversity values, in fact there is
surprisingly little information on the genetic and species resources of the area. Within the
more than 5,000km2 of existing and proposed protected areas within the project area, the
most important from a national perspective are those in the Departments of Olancho and
Yoro.
10.   Based on recent work carried out by World Wildlife Fund and the World Bank
(Dinerstein, et al. 1995. A Conservation Assessment of the Terrestrial Ecoregions of Latin
America and the Caribbean), the project areas coincides with the following forest types
and ecoregions of interest.
TABLE 2. SoiLs AND LAND USE iN PROJECT AREA
Forest L        Soil Utilization (%) 1         Forest (%)         Intensi Pastur
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   ye  e
Mgmt. Unit      Over  Normal   Sub    Pine  Broadleaf Mixed   Ag.    (%)
San Esteban         60      33       33      40        15       10      15      20
Agua Fria           40      40       20      60                 10      20      10
Jocon               34      33       33      60                 10      10      20
Yoro                20      60       20      30                 10      40      20
Olanchito           60      20       20      15        15       20      25      25
Culni               25      50       25      10       60        5       15      10
Catacamas           30      50       20       5       50        5       20      20
Guaimaca            15      75       10      60        5        5       10      15
El Porvenir         30      60       10      30                 10      40      20
Talanga             40      40       20      50                 10      20      20
Morazan             45      45       10      45                 5       30      20
Source: AFE Department of Forest Management, based on maps of 1:250, 000. Map
data represents a series of sources, data reflective ofperiod 1990-93.
" - "Forest management units" are administrative delineations which include all lands, i.e.
they are not strictly comprised of public lands or forest lands, rather their definition
encompasses both urban and rural zones and all lands public, private, ejido and communal.
"- soil utilization" is a production-oriented concept, for purposes of environmental
analysis its utility derives from its definition of "over utilization" and "normal utilization"
as indicators of areas of degrading vs. potentially sustainable land uses and "sub
utilization" as a crude indicator of natural areas which may or may not be under
extensive uses (e.g., forest grazing, fuelwood collection, etc.).



Annex 112
Page 7 of 27
(a)   Tropical Moist Broadleaf Forest, Central American montane forests -
these forests are considered endangered, bioregionally outstanding, and of
high priority for conservation at the regional-scale. Within the project area,
these types of forests are found primarily within the protected areas system;
some remnants might exist outside of the system in private lands. In 198?,
all remaining areas of forest above 1,800 meters elevation were gazetted
into the protected areas system; thus incoiporating the remaining areas of
this type (tropical moist broadleaf montane forests) into the system. Table
3 details the main protected areas of interest in the project area. This forest
type would correspond with the "Per-humid Lower Montane Wet Forest"
and "Broadleaf Cloud Forest" in the table.
TABLE 3. PROTEcTED AREAS OF HIGHEST NATIONAL IMPORTANCE IN PROJECT AREA
Forestry Project Forest Area           Dominant Forest Type
Protected Area   Region   Mgmt. Unit    a                  (after Holdridge)
Montafia de Yoro,  Yoro     Yoro           180  Per-humid Lower Montane Wet Forest
National Park                                    (Broadleaf Cloud Forest & Mixed
Pine/Broadleaf)
Tawahka,          Olancho  Culmi           400  Humid Tropical Moist Forest
Biological Reserve
Rio Platano       Olancho  Culmi,          1,000 Humid Tropical Moist Forest
Biosphere Reserve           Catacamas                            _
Patuca, National   Olancho  Catacamas      600  Humid Tropical Moist Forest
P ark                       _  _ _  _  _    _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _
Sierra de Agalta,   Olancho  Sn Esteban,   624  Per-humid Lower Montane Wet Forest
National Park               Culmi,               (Broadleaf Cloud Forest & Mixed
Catacamas            Pine/Broadleaf)
Pico Bonito,      Olancho, Olanchito       1,125 Humid Tropical Moist Forest & Humid Sub-
National Park      Atlantida                 .. tropical Moist Forest (Pine)
Pico Pijol, National Yoro   Morazan        155  Per-humid Lower Montane Wet Forest
Park (of mod.                                    (Broadleaf Cloud Forest & Mixed
inport. )                                        Pine/Broadleaf)
a - The figures given here represent the total areas of the individual protected areas. Most
of these, however, lie within more than one forest management unit. Of the 4,084 km2
reported here, plus the more than 1,000 km2 of other protected areas not reported here
(being of low priority), only about 20% or 1,000 km2 actually is within the project area.
(b)   Tropical Moist Broadleaf Forest, Central American Atlantic moist
forests - these lowland forests are considered vulnerable, bioregionally
outstanding, and of moderate priority for conservation at the regional-
scale. Within the project area such forest types are found both within and



Annex H2
Page 8 of 27
outside of the protected areas system. The forest management units
containing such forest types are Olanchito, Culmi and Catacamas. In the
latter two, the remaining areas of these forest types are almost wholly
contained within the protected areas system (Rio Platano Biosphere
Reserve and Patuca National Park). In Olanchito, such forests exist both
within and outside the protected areas system. They are found in the
majority in public lands.
Conifer/Temperate Broadleaf Forests, Central American pine-oak forests - these
forests are considered vulnerable, bioregionally outstanding, and of moderate priority for
conservation at the regional-scale. These forest types are found within almost all of the
project's forest management units; though they represent only a small (usually less than
10%) percentage of the total forest cover-types. The extent to which these exist within
and outside of the protected area system remains to be determined when more detailed
work is carried out during the forest master planning exercises during project
implementation.
Box 1. TECHNCAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL NORMS FOR FOREST MANAGEMENT PLANNING
AND HARVESTING IN CONIFEROUS FORESTS
:lhis project has a Environmemtal Assesnent Category B-ranking, requiring an environmental analysis, but not a full environmentaL
i assessment 1 Oveall project design is concerned with Box 1. TFCEcHINc. AND EVRO?4NMxTAL NORMS FOR FOREST
M.NAGCINL-r PLAmrmC AND HARvESTiNG LN CoNImoUS FoREssI:
Current Regulations (Source: !ormas T&-nicasy Reglamentacionpam la Elaboraci6nde Planes derMarnjo en Coniferas; AFE-
COHDEFOR, 16/01193)
Legal Basis: Ley De Modenizacion Agricola - Articulos 73.74,75. 78; Ley Forestal - Articles
1,2,3.6,9,10,11,12.24.64,69,81,84,91,99.104,117-137; Decreto 103 - Articles 2.8;; Deweto 31-92 - Article 75; Decseto 85
Land Use
*    No land, public or private, under forest may be converted to other land uses.
*    Grazing of tbrest lands only permitted wher grazing compatible with maintenance of forest cover.
*    All commercial exploitation of forests nust maintain forest cover and, preferably, the existing naturn species mix
*    All public forest lands to be managed under a multiple use concept
    In production forests (public or private), the mnaximum allowable cut to be defined by mean amual increment (MAI) sustained vield
concept.
Forest Management Plans
*    All commercial forest exploitations (timber and non-timber) require a forest management plan.
*    Non-commercial exploitations in private and ejido lands are unregulaed
a    Non-commercial exploitations in nalional forest lands require a forest management plan.
a    All management plans must be drawn up by professional foresters.
*    All management plans to include environmntal impact and mitigation form (AFE-DIA. ace eBox 2).
*    All management plans to include site regeneamtion plan.
*    All management plans to include forest protection plan (grazing fire, peg and diseases).
*    All management plans to layout skid trails, roads. logging deck and define water source and waterway protection zones.
*    All protected areas (inciudes "declared watersheds" for potable water production) nmst be marked on maps in management plans; no
conanercial exploitations allowed in protected areas.
*    Professional foresters are those registred with the College of Foresters; professional standing of foresters to be suspended where
evidence of incompetence or ofrruption results in request of suspension from AFE-COHDEFOR.
- see project file documents:
1) ESA Consultores, 11 de marzo de 1996, Componente de Recursos Naturales, Anexo B, Evaluaci6n Ambiental;
2) UTN Proyecto RUTA IIL octubre 1995, Diagn6stico Rural Partcipatiivo de Comunidades en Unidades de Gestidn Seleccionadas;
3) UIN Proyecto RUTA IIL junio 199 5,Evaluacion de Tecnologias oModelosAgroforestalesyForestales enHondurar,
4) Comisi6n de AuditoriaTecnica-OperacionaL noviembre 1994,Auditona Tecnica-OperacionalDeLa CorporaciOnHondurellaDe
Desarrollo Forestal.



Annex H12
Page 9 of 27
*    All forest maagem  plans to be approved by AFE-COHDEFOR prior to their execution.
*    Approvi of pls based on denonstration of legal rigbts to the land (includes tlg review of presence of protected arems in plan).
and adwerence to mannt plamiing technial and enviomenal norms (based on plan rview and site visit).
Tecnical Elements Of Foresl Masement Plans (anolicable on oublic and ixivate lands)
*    Maxumwn allowable anna cut basd on Totation age and MAI
*    Natural regeneration:
seed tree c  - acceptable up to 60% slope
seed tree cut - minim  15 seed treeslha (bet quality. uniformly distributed)
minimum acceptable - 1,200 seedling/ha (if less must cany out enrichmet planting)
*    On slopes6 >o60% selective cutting only with overhead cable eraction (in practice, no commecial logging above 60% slope is
.   approved, except fot smalckale, seective cuts by community gmups).
*    Mixed ctands to be havested under seectiwve  tsyst m
*    Seleive cuts not to exceed 50% of oover with minimum 5 year reenry time into stand.
*    Reain harvesting only on trees with >30 an dbh.
*    Road.
.nminm  li% slope (greater  qires specific pemitting)
.wmus alow fre pasage of ater (al necesary drais  drain li, culverts, bridges)
kept ckar during dry seon to serve as firebxeaks
*    Directional felling to avod danage to seed trees and regeneration
    SkiddinW
pre.planned layouts to minimize skid d&ance, soil disturbance and to avoid regeneration
tree must be topped and limbed prior to skidding
one end oftree must be lifted during skidding
*    Logging decks:
siting to mnmie soil and vegdtation disturbance
siting away from.water sources, live watercourses, and ephemeral channels
earthen loading ramps to be reveetatd
*    Logging slash tnanaged so as to. avoid creation of fire hazards and spred  of disAs.
*    Controlled burn as required to reduce fuel loading,
*    Disead and insec attacked stands to be treated (silvicutural controls)
*    Wildlife:
no felling of nest or den trees (snags)
no humting (captr or collection)
No gmngm forest ar  where regenen isu ssdn 2 meters i heght
11.    The environmental and social aspects of the project were undertaken by local
consultants, an assessment of biodiversity conservation priorities (ongoing) and the status
of protected areas, and a detailed review of the environmental criteria included in forest
management plans. The natural resource management component seeks to foster
community forestry on municipal and national forest lands, and various assessments would
be made as a part of project design to determine the appropriate strategies and
institutional arrangements for community forestry activities. A full social assessment has
been completed and which included consultations with stakeholders and an evaluation of
the potential impacts on indigenous peoples; a separate Indigenous Peoples Development
Plan is not required for this project. A more complete treatment of social issues is
provided in Annex H3, SocialAssessment.
12.       The project is designed to support a program  of institutional strengthening, natural
resource management planning, and community-based/participatory natural resource
management activities. Resultingly, preparation activities are restricted to identification of
needs and opportunities and the detailing of processes and mechanisms for project
implementation. Detailed information on specific interventions and activities in forest and
upland areas is not, therefore, available for review at project appraisal. The



Annex H2
Page 10 of 27
Environmental Analysis (see Table 4) of the project, therefore, is based on: (a) the
specific types of investment activities that would be financed under the project; and
(b) identification of environmental risks associated with such activities. The
Environmental Management Plan subsequently proposes the mechanisms, activities and
financing necessary within the implementation process in order to comply with
environmental requirements of GOH and IDA.
13.   The main environmental risks associated with the project are:
(a)   Land adjudication and forest land tenure: increased and/or induced
pressures on common and open resources.
(b)   Natural resource management:
(i)    Forest road rehabilitation - increased erosion and sedimentation;
improved access facilitating encroachment and illegal harvesting of
forest products (incl. Wildlife).
(ii)   Silvicultural treatments & forest harvesting - loss of biodiversity;
overharvesting; loss or degradation of wildlife habitat; water quality
impacts (turbidity, sediment, BOD, DO, temperature); genetic
erosion; alterations in catchment hydrology (increased peak flows,
reduced base flows, decreased groundwater recharge); soil
degradation (fertility loss, erosion, reduced productivity, etc.);
increased forest access (hunting, colonization, social conflicts).
(iii)   Agricultural & forestry extension and technical assistance - land use
conversion; increased soil loss and degradation (physical/chemical/
biological); non-point source pollution; overgrazing; increased
pasture burning; forest conversion; water quality impacts.
(iv)   Biodiversity Conservation - shift of protected areas priorities and
protection resources decreasing protection capability in other areas;
increased or induced pressures on protected areas from enhanced
"attractiveness" of near-protected area zones as a result of
investments in community economic and quality of life investments.
14.   It should be noted that the project would not finance any logging activities per se,
it would finance activities which would lead up to commercial logging in some areas of
pine forests and community logging (small-scale, manual) in some areas of pine and
broadleaf (potentially including humid tropical moist forest). It would also finance
silvicultural activities (primarily thinnings), which in some number of cases would be
commercial thinnings.



Annex H2
Page 11 of 27
FRAMEWORK FOR IPLEMENTATION OF THE ENVIRONNMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
(see Table 5)
15.   Land Adjudication and Forest Land Tenure: The primary responses to the
potential for increased and/or induced pressures on common and open resources are the
project's support for activities which would clarify land occupancy and legal status in
national forest lands, assist in providing tenure security over the resource, and enhance
institutional presence and enforcernent; of national forest land boundaries.
16.   The framework for provision of enhanced tenure security resides in the
"Regularization of Forest-Occupants Rights"-initiative of GOH and the Agricultural
Sector Modernization Law of 1992. Honduran law prohibits the titling of land that is
defined as "Terreno De Vocaci6n Forestal" TVF) or Land of Forestry Vocation 2 Only
such TVF which currently is titled as "Dominio Pleno" is recognized as non-public land;
by some definitions Dominio Pleno derives only from the original Spanish Land Grants.
All other titles (Dominio Util) or claims are not recognized as valid in terms of land
ownership (though the occupant can sell the "mejoras" to the land and with it pass on their
occupancy claim to another) and for purposes of receiving a government license for
certain activities (e.g., forest harvesting). In forested areas these later constitute the vast
majority of land claims. In theory, only those with land claims prior to the passage of the
Agricultural Sector Modernization Law in 1992 are recognized as having valid claim to
regularization. The exact meaning of "regularization" is currently part of IDA's policy
dialogue with GOH. During project implementation an explicit regularization policy and
its reglamento are expected to be defined. In practice, GOH has no policy (or intention)
to resettle persons who settled in TVF after 1992. Rather the intention is that such
persons would be incorporated into the overall rights of communities in TVF and be
allowed to participate in livelihood activities as defined within GOH forest management
plans. By definition, TVF covers some 75% to 80% of the country, and almost 100% of
the project area. In what is currently considered TVF, the project would only promote
private titling in what would be the minimal number cases where closer inspection found
that the TVF classification was incorrect (current definition is on 1:100,000 and smaller
scales). Priority activities are those related to clarifying forest occupant rights (census of
occupants, diagnostics of occupant land uses and perceptions of rights, conflict resolution
mechanisms), and assisting in the development of alternative tenure instruments for
treatment of traditional rights of communities and individuals.
17.   The Department of Cadastre (DEC) would be financed to carry out parcel-level
cadastres in each of the project forest management units. This would be part of a larger
process within which DEC would complete a rural cadastre of the entire Departments of
n2 TVF is defined based on criteria, which include: i) land with slopes greater than or equal to 30%; or
ii) land below 30% slope with soils having a sandy-texture and/or a depth of less than 20 cm and/or
more than 15% (by volume) stones with the presence of rocky outcrops, and/or soils subject to
inundation by tidal fluxes, and/or with restricting layers in the subsoil or with impermeable parent
material.



Annex H2
Page 12 of 27
Yoro, Olancho and Francisco Morazain. The project areas would be given the highest
priority in terms of where the cadastre begins. The outputs from the parcel-level surveys
would also better identify local stakeholders (and interests), among whom AFE would
promote usufruct contracts for forest management and protection. It is assumed that such
arrangements would assist in reducing pressures from migrants and agricultural
conversion. This is borne out by recent studies (1996) by CIDA within their community-
based broadleaf forest management project in Atlantida. Over a five year period forest
conversion rates were reduced by more than 75% in areas where usufruct contracts were
given.
18.   Complementing the work by DEC and AFE's granting of usufruct rights, the
Upland Producer's Fund would finance the community-level processes for establishing
legal identity and obtaining usufruct rights. In addition, more than 4% of total project
costs will go directly to forest protection activities to be carried out under forest
management plans.
Box 2. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND MrrIGATION FORM (AFE-IDA)
Under current regulations, each forest management plan must include a section on potential impacts and
mnitigation measures. The inforiation required in the form is presented below. Currently, in conjunction
with SERNA (under the IDA-financed Environmental Development Project (IDA Cr. 2693-HO) and
several other donor-supported initiatives ongoing in the AFE-COHDEFOR, an enviromnental assessment
manual for forest management is being developed to replace the current form. The draft mamn  will be
available in late 1996. The manual is to address the weakaesses in the current focus of EA.
Information required:.
For the following items and specific topics an estimate of potential impacts, rated as: "Not significant",
"Small", "Large" or "Permanent/Irreversible", is to be determined in the field by the forester.conpleting
the management plan. The specific mitigatorv measures to be taken in the management plan's execution
are identified and described for each item and topic. The mitigatory measured must be integrated into the
overall plan and budget
Topography And Soil: Slope stability; Stability of road cuts; Stability of stream and gully banks; Erosion;
Sedimentation;
Hydrology: Runoff; Water quality
Climate: Micro-climate; Smoke
Vegetation: Partial Removal; Species loss; Regeneration; Logging slash; Fire; Scrub formation; Opening
to grazng
Wildlife: Threatened or protected species; Nesting sites and snags; Illegal hunting; Feedig/breeding sites



Annex H2
Page 13 of 27
19.   Natural Resource Management.    The project proposes a series of responses (see
Table 5) ranging from inputs during the forest management planning stages; investments in
institutional capacity building; investments in training, technical assistance, extension, and applied
research; monitoring and supervision inputs; and agreed financing criteria. These include:
(a)   Forest regional forestry sector environmental assessment. Under the IDA-
financed HONDURAS - Environmental Development Project (Cr. 26934HO)
SERNA and AFE would contract sectoral environmental assessments in the three
project regions. These would be carried out during the first six months of project
implementation and have the objectives of strengthening subsequent forest
management planning and implementation through providing analysis of potential
cumulative effects of forest management activities between forest management
units and establishing a broader, environmental planning framework to be
respected in the subsequent individual forest management plans developed at the
management unit-level.
(b)   Forest management planning. The project would support forest management
planning at the institutional-level (AFE) for management of public forest lands, to
municipalities for management of ejido forest lands, and to communities (including
local groups, cooperatives, etc.) for management of public (under usufruct
contracts) or communal forest lands. The management planning process and the
resulting management plans provide, in the first instance, the focus for exercising
environmental safeguards. On public forest lands, planning would be carried out in
a three-step process:
(i)   forest master planning - to develop macro-plans for each forest
management unit. The outputs from the process would include: a)
delimitation of public forest lands; b) a rapid inventory of the existing forest
resources; c) a census of forest occupants and participatory diagnostics of
their land uses; d) a sub-division of the management unit into planning
blocks based on zoning (protected areas, critical microwatersheds,
multiple-use areas, production forest, etc.) and for pine production forest a
further sub-division based on density, age, and volume; e) design of road
network; f) environmental impact assessment; g) forest protection plan; and
h) public consultations to finalize plan.
(ii)  forest management planning - to develop detailed management plans for
each of the management sub-divisions. In the case of production forest this
entails stand-level inventories, development of silvicultural treatment plans,
and of long-term harvesting and regeneration plans. In the case of critical
microwatersheds this involves promoting formal agreements between AFE
and the concerned municipality for development and implementation of a
management and protection plan (to be financed by the Upland Producer's
Fund). In the case of protected areas, the Biodiversity Conservation sub-



Annex H2
Page 14 of 27
component would finance management planning in high, national priority
areas. In multiple-use areas, this involves promoting formal agreements
between AFE and the concerned communities or groups for planning and
management (community portion to be financed by the Upland Producer's
Fund). Required elements from the regional and master planning
environmental assessments would be incorporated into the forest
management plan, and included in an environmental control and
supervision plan section.
(iii)  annual operating plans - to develop an annual plan of work and budget
for implementation of activities called for under the management plan.
This includes activities such as a stand-level analysis to mark seed trees to
be left; plan silvicultural treatments; and complete stand maps. Required,
elements from the forest management plan's environmental control and
supervision plan would be incorporated into the annual operating plan and
budget.
On ejido and communal lands, and in the case of usufruct contracts on
public lands, the Upland Producer's Fund would finance the services of a
professional forester to assist the community in developing and executing a
forest management plan. Management planning would follow the so-called
"simplified forest planning model"; the model has been developed and
tested during the last 5 years as a part of the FlNNIDA-financed Programa
Centro Americano Forestal. The model provides a more than adequate
basis for planning forest operations on a small-scale (<10,000 ha).
(c)   Institutional capacity building. The project would provide significant levels of
institutional support (>10% of total project cost) to the AFE to assist it to
decentralize along forest management lines, establish an effective field presence,
upgrade the skills of its forestry professionals, have access to the information
necessary to prioritize interventions and make decisions, to integrate social and
environmental concems into management planning and implementation, and to
carry out intemal monitoring of performance and compliance.
(d)   training, technical assistance, and extension.    The Upland Producer's Fund
is designed to provide access to appropriate natural resource management
approaches and technologies for municipalities, communities, and community
groups. The operating of the Fund is also assumed to place extemal pressure on
the AFE to carry out its role of involving communities in forest management and
exercising technical and environmental oversight on public lands. The Fund also
supports training of natural resource professionals who would provide services to
municipalities and groups, a priority theme of which would be management of
environmental risks in forestry and agricultural systems. An independent private
sector firm or NGO would be contracted to administer, manage, promote, and
supervise the Upland Producer's Fund. The fund manager would be responsible



Annex H12
Page 15 of 27
for the technical adequacy of the proposals funded and assuring the quality of their
implementation.
(d)   Monitoring and supervision inputs:
(i)    Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), located in the Ministry of Natural
Resources, would have overall responsibility for monitoring and
supervision of the project. The main instruments which they would have to
ensure project compliance with IDA and GOH environmental standards
are: a. annual technical audits - which, inter alia, would provide an
independent review the environmental aspects of project implementation;
b. project mid-term review - as a pilot project which will require close
supervision of implementation experience in order to allow appropriate
adjustments to be made during project life, two mid-term reviews would be
scheduled (and financed) within which the major focus would be on
environmental aspects of forest management planning and execution; and
c. annual implementation reports and work programs from the
implementing institutions, indicators relevant to forest protection and
management would be reported upon in the implementation reports.
(ii)   DEC would have responsibility for all elements related to the legal
definition of lands and land boundaries, both in terms of delineation of
public forest lands, as well as definition of traditional holdings within public
forest lands and their legal disposition.
(iii)   AFE's Department of Norms and Control would be charged with
ensuring the completion and quality of all environmental assessment work
and that the AFE's forest management plans complied with technical and
environmental standards 1' (see Box 3) and incorporated outputs from both
the regional and management unit-level EAs. They would also supervise
Regional offices' approvals of municipal and community-level management
plans. Where commercial logging is to carried out, the department would
have ultimate responsibility for approving release of the performance bonds
deposited by the logging outfit to ensure compliance with environmental
and technical norns. Throughout the process the Department would be
charged with coordinating with SERNA and acquiring all approvals
required by law, including assuring that required "Licencia Ambiental " are
obtained for all activities which require one.
- With the assistance of the IDA-financed Environmnental Development Project, USAID's Forestry Development
Project, the FINNTDA project, and several other forestry sector donors, the AFE is still in the process of
formalizing its operational technical and environmental norms for environment; a manual for environmental
assessment in forest management planning is also under development. Prior to negotiation of the project,
IDA would need to review the latest draft to identify any gaps or conflicts with IDA guidelines.



Annex H2
Page 16 of 27
(iv)   AFE's Regional offices would be responsible to review the forest
management units' (unidades de gesti6n) annual operating plans to ensure
that they comply with forest management plans and technical and
environmental standards. They would be responsible to review the
municipal and community-level management plans and their
implementation. The payment of professional foresters' services by the
Upland Producer's Fund would be conditioned on the regional offices
approvals.
(v)   SERNA would be responsible for the financing, supervision and approval
of the regional forestry sector environmental assessment and the review
and In addition, they would participate with the AFE in all decisions
related to the prioritization of lands, activities and investments within the,
protected areas system. SERNA's role in the environmental review and
approval of individual forest management plans would include coordinating
with AFE's Department of Norms and Control and assuring that it
complies with all legal requirements related to environmental assessments
and approvals.
(vi)   Upland Producer's Fund Manager would be responsible for assuring
that all financed proposals (both in the planning and the implementation
stages) are in compliance with financing criteria. Financing criteria include
those related to appropriate technical content and quality, as well as
broader environmental concerns. They would also be responsible to
coordinate with the PCU and AFE to assure that financing for key activities
(e.g., establishment of legal identity and obtaining usufruct contracts,
technical services for forest management, etc.) is available in a timely
fashion in the locations required by the project.
(e)      Financing criteria. A series of financing criteria were agreed at project
negotiations both for the project as a whole, as well as for subsequent financing of
activities under the Upland Producer's Fund. Other than those agreements over
specific project activities (summarized, above, in this annex detailed in the Project
Implementation Document) and GOH's commitment to their implementation, the
main agreements reached include:
(i)    Project wide:
a.    completion of sectoral forestry environmental assessments to
identify sensitive areas and environmental assessments completed
for all forest management plans prior to financing of management
activities;
b.    annual technical audits and mid-term review;



Annex H2
Page 17 of 27
c.    no financing of new roads, rehabilitation only of existing;
d.    no financing of commercial logging or logging equipment in
primary tropical moist forest;
e.    no financing of activities within forest management plans that
would result in significant conversion or degradation of critical
natural habitats, such habitats to be specifically identified through
the sectoral forestry environmental assessments;
f     all harvesting activities (commercial and community) to be within
the context of approved forest management plans; management
plans that include commercial logging to have prior environmental
assessments;
g.    all forest management activities to comply with pre-established
environmental and technical norms; and
h.    all forest management plans to include a formal process of public
consultation with affected municipalities, communities, and groups.
(b)   Upland Producer's Fund:
(i)   no financing of proposals with activities which would increase the
efficiency of natural resource exploitation or exploitation pressures except
within the context of an adequate management plan;
(ii)   no financing of proposals that would result in the conversion of forested
areas to other land uses;
(iii)  pre-financing inspection of all proposals;
(iv)   no financing of agrochemicals at farm-level;
(v)   financing of assistance to community-scale forest management only, no
industrial forest management assistance;
(vi)  all extractive activities in forest areas within context of forest management
plans and annual operating plans;
(vii)  all forest management plans and annual operating plans in state forest land
reviewed and approved by AFE-COHDEFOR, and
(viii)  all proposals to include participatory diagnostic which, inter alia, would
serve as a land use planning framework.



Annex H2
Page 18 of 27
Box 3. AFE-COHDEFOR's TECHNCAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL
STANDARDS IN CONIFEROUS FORESTS
Thefollowing should be read bearing in mind that the current trend to control and manage logging is extremelypositive and asyet, an
incipient effort Vile improvements are necesa    inh theflrst Istance, sinply bring theforests under some type of management and
reducing uncontrolled land conversions and "cut out and get out" logging practices will be the most stgnifcant long tenn contrbutonl
The observations below are intended to point out areas where inprovements might be targeted over the medluw-terna
A review of the current environmental and technical standards which fornt the basis for GOH's review and approval of firest management
plans, and subsequent enforcement of compliance reached the following conclusions:
Technical Adequacy
In the aggregate the current norms are reasonable in so far as they intend to address the site specific objectives of maintaining forest cover
over the long term, minimizing scondary disturbances, and assuring adequate regeneration. They are weak as regards minimizing off-site
impacts, logging in steep areas, selective Felling norns, and avoiding soil disturbances caused bv logging operations during periods of high
soil moisture. Avoidance of off-site impacts; specifically as regards water quality (sedimentation,. stream temperature, and BOD), requires
development of more specific standards in two areas in particular:
*   Roads - road standards regarding free passage of water are reasonable, however there is no provision for longer tenr stabiization of
road cuts and fills, maintenance of drainage structures (the "broad-based dip" utilized in the southern United States would be an
appropriate addition to road standards to address this problem), road approaches to streams, stream crossings, and road closings and.
recIamation (where this would be desirable and how it sbould be done).
   Protection of water sources and streams - the standards intend to afford this type of protection but fail to provide any clear guidelines.
No guidance is provided on: i) stream setbacks and harvesting in near-stream zones; ii) disposal of logging slash, iii) activities in and
around permanent and seasonal wetlands; and iv) siting of roads, skid paths, and logging decks relative to water sources and streams.
Setting of such standards is unavoidably arbitrary but is nonetheless necessary. Standards must be simple and directed at
maintaining natural shading of live stream courses, keeping logging slash out of the natural drainage patterns, maintaining buffer
zones amund springs and strearn courses sources, and avoiding logging activities in wetland areas.
*   Size and location of harvesting operations - no mention is made on upper limits to harvest areas and the proximity of harvest areas
from one year to the next. Guidelines should be developed to be applied on the basis of watersheds of third order streams or larger to
avoid overcutting and aggregate downstream effects on quickflows and sediment out of upland production forests.
In reference to the other points:
*   As to logging in steep areas, the norms require selective felling and use of cable ways. Undercurrentmarket, technil capacitv and
resource conditions such logging is not a viable option. Rather, in practice, logging of such areas is artesanal and will tend to cause
the development of permanent scars from uncontrolled downslope skidding. There is no easy solution to this problem; but neither is
it, as yet. a priority issue.
*   No norms exist regarding avoidance of high-grading sites through selective logging.
*   No norms exist as to keeping heavy equipment out of the forest, road building, or skidding during periods of high soil moisture to
avoid destruction of soil structure.
In all cases there is a need to arrive at more specific, operational guidelines for achieving desired objectives.
Environmental Nonrs
The current norms are weak and require improvement across the board.; however, their currentlv exists little information upon which to
base improvements. Resolution of this problem is larger than simply a forestry sector issue. Attempts are made in the current norms to
speak to conservation of habitat and wildlife, but there is no context within which this might be done. As a result the norms are reduced to
referring to nesting and breeding sites (snags). Additionally, no attempt is made to look at aggregate impacts of forest management
activities. Each management plan is developed and evaluated as totally independent unit. Broader landscape-scale norms related to
habitat species and aggregate impacts in given ecoregions and river basins should be the goal toward which efforts are directed. Working
toward this goal could. in the medium-term, provide a basis for more specific EA guidelines on the scale of the individual management
plan.
Capacity To Apply and Enforce Technical and Envirornenhtl Norms
Given that vcry little experience as yet exists with forest management (planning, application. supervision, and enforcement) it must
logically follow (and does) that little capacity exists to make the system work. The professional forester is identified as being responsible
for all aspects of management including the initial environmental assessments. Unavoidably, there will be errors from mistakes,
ignorance. and incompetence. This can only be managed through having modest goals and training coupled with on-the-ob experience
and adequate supervision.



Annei H2
Page 19 of 27
20.   Land Acquisition and Resettlement. The project would finance neither land acquisition
nor activities which required resettlement. An assurance was obtained at negotiations to this
effect.
21.   Legal Framework.    Based on the Ley General del Ambiente (Decree N'. 104-93), the
Reglamento General de la Ley del Ambiente (Agreement N'. 109-93) and the Reglamento del
Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n de Impacto Ambiental (Agreement NQ. 109-93) Honduras has
put into effect an legal framework for environmental protection that has been reviewed by and
fouuM acceptable to IDA. The implementing mechanisms for these laws and regulations are
currently the focus of an ongoing IDA-financed project (Environmental Development Project, Cr.
2693-HO). A technical manual for the National Environmental Assessment System has been
developed by SERNA and would provide the initial basis for the project's environmental
assessment actions. This would later be complemented and/or superseded by the environmental,
assessment manual being developed by the AFE-COHDEFOR in cooperation with SERNA.



IV >
TABLE 4. MATRIX OF POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS AND PROJECr RESPONSE, BY PROJECT COMPONENT
AcrIVrrY               POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS                           MANAGEMENT OR MITIGATION MEASURE
COMPONENT 1. LAND ADMINISTRATION
1.    Implementation of    No negative impacts anticipated.
Land Registry (Folio Real)
2.     Land Adjudication.   1.    Social, rural and forest zones -  See Annex H3, Social Assessment for additional detail.
tenure conflicts, loss of access to key  1.  Regularization & Conflict Resolution Activities:
resources for subsistence, income, and  i) parcel-level cadastre & census of forest occupants in all project units;
quality of life.                        ii) participatory diagnostic of traditional usage and rights in all project units;
2.     Enviromnental, rural and forest  iii) technical assistance in development & piloting of a wider range of usufruct
zones - increased and/or induced pressures  instruments for communal and individual tenure;
on common and/or open resources.        iv) technical assistance in development & implementation of conflict resolution
mechanisms;
v) inclusion of a trained social promoter in each cadastral team to assist with legal
aspects and resolve conflicts;
vi) promotion of adjudication at community-level with local authorities, other
relevant local actors, DEC, INA, AFE;
vii)direct support to communities for:
a) legal assistance in tenure adjudication,
b) establishing legal identity and obtaining usufruct rights;
c) formalized participation and public consultation processes with municipalities
and affected local populations in state forest management planning and
implementation;
2.     Forest Management Planning and Implementation Process:
i) formalized participation and public consultation processes;
ii) sectoral forestry environmental assessments to identify sensitive areas, outputs
integrated into regional forest management planning and implementation norms;
iii) increased institutional presence and effectiveness in project areas;
iv) forest protection programs in each forest management unit;
v) incorporation of local communities into forest management activities and sharing
of economic benefits;
vi) project monitoring - annual technical audits; mid-term review.
COMPONENT 2. NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Subcomponent 2.1 Forest Management
Forest land tenure:       I1.      Social - tenure conflicts, reduced   See Component 1. Land Administration, Land Adjudication (above)
i) delimitation of state    access to resources, reduced
forest lands;        income/quality of life;
ii) regularization of the    2.  Environmental - increased or
land rights of forest    induced pressures on common and/or open



TABLE 4. MATRIX OF POTENTIAL NEGATrVE IMPACrS AND PROJECT R ESPONSE, By PROJECT COMPONENT
AcTrvrrY                POTENTiAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS                             MANAGEMENT OR MITIGATION MEASURE
occupants.            resources.
2. forest management:       1. Forest road rehabilitation -         1.     Road rehabilitation:
i)  rehabilitation of       i) increased erosion and               i) no new roads, rehabilitation only of existing;
forest roads;                     sedimentation                       ii) completion of road rehabilitation & maintenance plans (including organization
ii)  silvicultural          ii) improved access facilitating           and financing) which include drainage structure and sediment control designs;
treatments & forest               encroachment,                       iii) road rehabilitation plan included in environmental assessment of forest
harvesting.                    iii) illegal harvesting of forest products  management plan;
(incl. wildlife)                    iv) financing of vegetative stabilization and road drainage systems;
2.  Silvicultural treatments & forest     v) increased institutional presence and effectiveness in project areas;
harvesting -                              vi) forest protection programs in each forest management unit.
iv) loss of biodiversity,           2.     Forest harvesting:
v) overharvesting                      i) no harvesting in humid tropical forest; all harvesting plans leading to timber
vi) loss or degradation of wildlife       auctions will be in Pinus spp. forests only (see Upland Producers Fund, below);
habitat,                            ii) no harvesting in protected areas (incl. "declared" watersheds, see Upland
vii)water quality impacts (turbidity,     Producers Fund, below);
sediment, BOD, DO, temperature),    iii) gap analysis of Protected Area System, biodiversity monitoring, strengthening of
viii)genetic erosion,                     protected areas system and other activities under "Biodiversity Conservation'
ix) alterations in catchment hydrology    component (see Annex E, Biodiversity Conservation Component);
(increased peak flows, reduced base    iv) sectoral forestry environmental assessments, outputs integrated into regional
flows, decreased groundwater           forest management planning and implementation norms;
recharge,                           v) all harvesting activities within context of forest management plans;
x) soil degradation (fertility loss,   vi) environmental assessments of individual forest management plans; technical
erosion, reduced productivity, etc.);  assistance to improve environmental and technical norms.
xi) increased forest access - hunting,  vii)application of pre-established environmental technical norms (see Box 3 above,
colonization;                          Enviromnental and Technical Standards) and EA recommendations in harvesting
xii)social conflicts.                     plan and implementation;
viii)performance bond retrieval conditioned on compliance with environmental
norms;
ix) monitoring of harvesting plans and implementation (by AFE-COHDEFOR and
through annual technical audits, and mid-term review);
x) re: social conflicts, see "1. Forest Land Tenure (above).
3. Regulation and control of  No negative impacts anticipated.      Activities would contribute to monitoring of compliance with technical and
forest harvesting                                                   environmental norms.
4.  Forestry research.      No negative impacts anticipated.        Activities would contribute to improved understanding of productivity and natural
regeneration in production pine forests.
Subcomponent 2.2 Upland Producers Fund                                                                                                    ZkV
1.     Agricultural &       1. Intensification of Agricultural      1.     Intensification of Agricultural Production:
forestry extension and      Production:                                i) focus on existing crop lands only of hillside-farming households and        o ,,
technical assistance           i) land use conversion;          _         inclusion of conservation measures introduction systems;



TABLE 4. MATRIX OF POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS AND PROJECT RE PONSE, BY PROJECT COMPONENT                                                          e D
AcrivrrY                POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS                             MANAGEMENT OR MITIGATION MEASURE                             I  g
ii) increased soil loss and degradation  ii) proposals require participatory diagnostic which, inter alia, will serve  N
(physical/chemical/ biological);       as a land use planning framework;
iii) non-point source pollution        iii) pre-financing inspection;                                                w
2.     Increased Usage of                 iv) financing of training and extension in soil & moisture conservation and fertility
Agrochemicals:                               management practices;
i) human health;                       v) project monitoring (annual technical audits, and mid-term review).
ii) surface and groundwater         2.      Increased Usage of Agrochemicals:
contamination;                      i) no financing of agrochemicals at farm-level (only in tree nurseries);
iii) increased resistance of pests/disease    ii) promotion of proven 1PM practices through extension program;
3.     Management of natural forest       iii) nursery-worker training to include appropriate handling, storage and disposal of
(incl. humid tropical forest): see "Forest   agrochemicals.
Management, Forest Harvesting" (above)   3.    Management of Natural Forest (incl. humid tropical forest):
Agroforestry & reforestation           i) community-scale only, no industrial forest management;
i) degradation of germplasm;           ii) financing of technical assistance, extension, and training for community groups
ii) introduction of aggressive species    and municipalities for completion and implementation of forest management
5.     Microwatershed management -           plans;
social conflicts (resource use).          iii) all extractive activities in forest areas within context of forest management plan
6.     Intensification of livestock          and annual operating plan;
production:                               iv) all management plans and annual operating plans in state forest land reviewed
i) overgrazing;                           and approved by AFE-COHDEFOR, based on technical and environmental
ii) increased soil loss and degradation;  norms;
iii) reduced groundwater recharge;     v) provision of tenure instruments (contratos de usufructo) in state forest land as
iv) increased pasture burning;            incentive to appropriate management;
v) forest conversion;                  vi) tenure instruments conditioned on compliance with environmental and technical
vi) water quality impacts.                norms.
4.     AGROFORESTRY & REFORESTATION:
i) training and technical assistance in nursery production;
ii) introduction of improved nursery practices and culling programs;
iii) introductions only of tested species.
5.     Microwatershed Management:
i) see "Forest Land Tenure "
ii) financing of technical assistance for participatory planning in microwatershed
management.;
iii) signing of management agreements with municipal government giving role and
responsibilities for protection with local groups that rely on microwatersheds for
potable water supply.
6.     Intensification of Livestock Production:
i) small-scale only (household-level);
ii) existing pasture lands only;



TABLE 4. MATRX OF POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACrS AND PROJECT RESPONSE, BY PROJECr COMPONENT
ACrIvrTy               POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS                           MANAGEMENT OR MITIGATION MEASURE
iii) proposals require participatory diagnostic which, inter alia, will serve as a land
use planning framework;
iv) pre-financing inspection;
v) promotion and extension of production systems that include improved pasture,
fertility management
_________________________________        vi) pasture management. practices to reduce or control burning.
2.     Agricultural &         No negative impacts anticipated.   Activities would contribute to improved understanding and management of forests and
forestry research                                                upland production systems.
3.     Training (agriculture  No negative impacts anticipated.   Activities would contribute to improved technical capacity for forestry and hilislope
& forestry research and                                          production system's research and appropriate management of natural resources.
extension)
Subcomponent 2.3 Biodiversity Conservation
1.     Redefinition of     1.     Shift of protected areas priorities   1.  Legal status of all Protected Areas would remain unchanged; financial-viability
Protected Areas System     decreasing protection capability in other    and budgetary resources of entire system to improve under project; project to increase
areas;                               AFE's overall institutional presence and protection capacity in national lands; where
2.     Increased pressures on protected   relevant Upland Fund would finance extension and technical assistance for improved
areas a result of investments in community  community natural resource management; project target's highest value areas
economic and quality of life investments.   2.  Buffer zone investment criteria would prohibit increasing access, "pull" factor
investments (e.g., schools); financing only of small-scale, group investments consistent
with biodiversity conservation and protected area's management..
2.  Protected area         3.      Infrastructure development:   3.      Infrastructure development:
management:                   i) road construction - loss of        i) environmental impact assessments will be carried out on a park-by-park basis for
i) infrastructure             biodiversity, see "Forest Road  the design and siting of infrastructure developments;
development;                     Rehabilitation"
ii) enforcement of         ii) building construction - loss of
protected area boundaries.       biodiversity,                      ii) project will finance all mitigatory measures specified in EA;
iii) inappropriate siting, induced
pressures on key resources.       iii) financing conditioned on institutional presence in place to ensure protection.
4.     Enforcement of protected area
boundaries - see "Land Adjudication" and   4.  Enforcement of protected area boundaries - see "Land Adjudication" and "Forest
"Forest Land Tenure".                Land Tenure".
3. Buffer zone management  See "Forest Land Tenure", and "Upland    See "Forest Land Tenure", and "Upland Producer's fund.                     e
Producer's fund. __



Annex H2
Page 24 of 27
TABLE S. INSTITONAL ARRANGEnMENTS FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF ENVIRONmMENTAL fANAGEMENT PLAN INTERVENTIONS
MANAGEMENT OR
.    MITIGATION MEASURE
ACTrIITY           [ MGA__NM_U_                                        IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITY
CoMPoNENT 1. LAND ADMISTRATION
1.       Land Adjudication.    1. Regularization &    I.        Regularization & Conflict Resolution Activities:
conflict resolution      A.            - parcel-level cadastre; inclusion of a trained social promoter, promotion of
adjudication at community-level; direct support to communities for legal assistance.
2. Forest management        B.       AFE-COHDEFOR - participatory diagnostic; technical assistance; promotion of
planning and                 establishing legal identity and obtaining usufruct rights; granting of usufruct rights;
implementa- lion             formalized participation and public consultation in stale forest management planning and
implementation.
C.       Uvland Producer's Fund - financing of process for establishing legal identity and
obtaining usufruct rights.
D.       Proiect Coordination Unit - project monitoring (annual technical audits; mid-term
review).
II.      Forest Management Planning and Implementation Process:
A        AFE-COHDEFOR - formalized participation and public consultation processes;
sectoral forestry environmental assessments (with SERNA); increased institutional presence
and effectiveness in project areas; forest protection programs in each forest management
unit; incorporation of local communities; internal monitoring of compliance.
B.       Upland Producer's Fund - financing of training and technical services for community
participation under usufruct contracts.
C.       SERNA - financing and supervision of sectoral forestry environmental assessments.
D.       Proiect Coordination Unit - project monitoring (annual technical audits; mid-term
review).
COMPONENT 2. NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
SUBCOMPONENT 2.1 FOREST MANAGEMENT              ____
Forest land tenure.           See Component 1. Land    See Component 1. Land Administration (above).
| Administration (above).   _
2. Forest management          I. Road rehabilitation.    1.     Road rehabilitation:
A        AFE-COHDEFOR - completion and compliance with agreed norms (no new roads),
2. Forest harvesting.           planning, design and construction (road rehabilitation & maintenance plans, inclusion in
environmental assessment of forest management plan; vegetative stabilization and road
drainage systems); area protection; internal monitoring.
B.       Project Coordination Unit - monitoring (annual technical audits; mid-term review).
II.      Forest harvesting:
A        AFE-COHDEFOR - completion and compliance with agreed norms (no harvesting
in humid tropical forest or protected areas); planning, design and implementation (gap
analysis of Protected Area System, biodiversity monitoring, strengthening of protected areas
system; sectoral forestry environmental assessments integrated into regional forest
management planning and implementation norms; environmental assessments of individual
forest mnanagement plans; application of pre-established environmental/technical norms and
EA recommendations in harvesting plan and implementation); internal monitoring (all
harvesting activities within context offorest management plans; performance bond retrieval
conditioned on compliance with environmental nomis; monitoring of harvesting plans and
implementation).
B.       Proiect Coordination Unit - project monitoring (annual technical audits; mnid-term
review).
SIBCOMPONENT 2.2 UPLAND PRODUCERS FuND
1.       Agricultural &       I. Intensification of   1.        Intensification of agricultural production, increased usage of agrochemicals; management
forestry extsion and technical   Agricultural         of natural forest; agroforestry & reforestation; microwatershed management; intensification of
assistance.                      Production,          livestock production:
A        Upland Producer's Fund Manaser (NGO or private firm) - completion of and
2. Increased Usage of           compliance with agreed norms (existing crop and pasture lands only, no fmancing of
Agrochemicals.               agrochemicals at farm-level; pre-requisites of participatory diagnostics; forest management
and annual operating plans in state forest land reviewed and approved by AFE-
3. Management of                COHDEFOR; forest management only at community-scale, no industrial forest
Natual Forest (incl.         management; livestock on small-scale only), technical quality and content of proposals in
humid tropical forest):      training, extension and technical assistance (conservation measures in production systems;
promotion of 1PM; forest management planning & implementation; trainmg on
4. AGROFORESrRY&              agrochemicals; improved nursery production practices; species introductions; participatory
.___________________               RFORESTA770AN              microwatershed planming, improved pasture & fertility management; pasture management



Annex H2
Page 25 of 27
TABLE 5. INSTiTTiiONAL ARRANGEMES FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN iNTERVENINONS
MANAGEMENT OR
MITIGATION MEASURE
ACTIVrrY                                                               IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSISILrTY
to reduce or control burning); monitoring and supervision (pre-fmnancing inspection; quality
5. Microwatershed               of technical services; performance of contract).
Management               B.        AFE-COHDEFOR - monitoring and supervision (review and approval forest and
micro-watershed management plans; compliance with technical and environmental nonns;
6. Intensification of           area protection); provision oftenure instruments (contratos de usufructo) in state forest land
Livestock Production.        as incentive to appropriate management; promotion and signing of micro-watershed
management agreements with municipal governments.
C.       Proiect Coordination Unit - project monitoring (annual technical audits; mid-term
review); supervision of Upland Producer's Fund Manager.
SuBCOMPONENT 2.3 BiODiViSITY CONSERVATION
1.       Prioritization of    Reduced protection for    I.      Loss of protection for areas with biological and/or environmental service values:
Protected Areas System        areas with biological       A.        AFE-COHDEFOR - application of complementary, alternative administrative
and/or environmental           instruments within Protected Areas System (e.g., "declared watershed"); coverage of
service values of local         Protected Areas within regional forest management plans, and forest managemnent unit-
and/or regional (vs.            based EA; inclusion of Protected Areas in regional, sectoral environmental assessments;
national) importance.           involvement of local communities in management as appropriate (e.g., declared
watersheds).
B.       SERNA- participation and agreement on Protected Areas prioritization scheme.
C.       Upland Producer's Fund - where relevant, finance extension and technical assistance
for appropriate natural resource management
D.       Proiect Coordination Unit - project monitoring (annual technical audits; mid-term
review); supervision of Upland Producer's Fund Manager.
2.  Protected area            L. Infiastructure       1.        Infrastructure development:
management                       development              A.        AFE-COHDEFOR - environmental impact assessments (on a park-by-park basis)
for the design and siting of infiastructure developments; inclusion of eia recommendations
2. Enforcement of              in design, construction financing; supervision of complance.
protected area           B.        Proiect Coordination Unit - project monitoring (annual technical audits; mid-tenm
boundariss                  review); supervision of Upland Producer's Fund Manager.
H.       Enforcement of protected area boundaries:
A.       AFE-COHDEFOR - enforcement of protected area boundaries - see "Land
Adjudication" and "Forest Land Tenure".
B.       Project Coordination Unit - project monitoring (annual technical audits; mid-term
review); supervision of Upland Producer's Fund Manager.
3. Buffer zone management     See "Forest Land        See "Forest Land Tenure", and "Upland Producer's fund.
Tenure", and "Upland
Producer's fund.



Annex H2
Page 26 of 27
TABLE 6. DIRECT COSTS & FINANCING FOR ltnLEMENTATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL. ACIVITrES1
TOTAL BASE
COST                   % FINANCING
ACMTITY                                         USS '000        IDA          GOH          Other
AU Components
*  project monitoring (annual technical audits; mid-term review).                     250
*  internal monitoring and compliance with environmental and technical norms (by AFE-  NA,t
COHDEFOR).
Subtotal
250
ReffuarizaHton & conflict resolution & Forest Land Tenure:
*  parcel-level cadastre.                                                             3,000
*  inclusion of a trained social promoter.                                             110
*  promotion of adjudication at community-level.                                       110
*  direct support to communities for legal assistance.                                 40
*  technical assistance for regularization & conflict resolution.                      S6           90/0         10%
*  financing of process for establishing legal identity and obtaining usufruct rights.  92          100%
Subtotal
3,438
Forest manasement planentn and Inmlementatlon:
*  participatory socio-economic diagnostics (will also provide baseline data for Regularization
and Forest Land Tenure).                                                           99           90%           10%
*  fornalized participation and public consultation in state forest management planning and
implementation.                                                                   73.5          90%           10%      financed by
*  sectoral forestry environimental assessments (with SERNA).                         200                        100%      IDA Cr 2693
*  improving environmental assessment and technical aspects offorest management                     80%          20% - Project
*  environmental assessments of individual forest management plans.                    126          900%          10%
*  forest protection programs in each forest management unit.                          88           60%          40%
*  financing oftraining and technical services for conumutity participation under usufruct
contracts.                                                                       1,417.6        80%           20%
*  gap analysis of Protected Area System.                                             i,000
*  biodivetsity monitoring                                                             iso
100
Forest harvesting
*  application ofpre-established environmentaltechnical norms and EA recommendations in
harvesting plan and implementation.
NA3
I    Some environmental management costs are implied in the functioning of the project --for example, "increased institutional
presence and effectiveness in project areas", "incorporation of local communities", project conditions (e.g., no new roads,
no harvesting in protected areas, no harvesting in humid tropical forests, etc.), "perfornance bonds", "application of
complementary, alternative administrative instruments within ProtectedAreas System. ", etc. - and are not included here.
These "costs" are implicit in project work program financing and are supported through training, technical assistance and
operational support (i.e., vehicles, per diems, materials, extension programs) and the Upland Producer's Fund.
2    Costs for activities related to monitoring and compliance with environmental and technical norms are, as in the above
footnote, implicit costs and can not be meaningfully separated out as distinct. The AFE's Department of Norms and
Control is charged with supervision and compliance (both environmental and technical). Project financing of vehicles,
communications equipment, training, forestry information systems, operational expenses, technical assistance, upgrading of
administration, etc. has direct objectives of assuring that the Dept. of Norms and Controls carries out its role.
3    The project is financing, aside from institutional strengthening and environmental assessment inputs, US$1.13 million of
varying scale (monitorable) forest management planning to ensure that, inter alia, all forest harvesting on national forest
lands is carried out only in areas suitable (environmentally and technically) for commercial logging. An additional
US$1.46 million will be invested in silvicultural treatments to optimize productivity and ensure regeneration in commaercial
logging areas. As the actual harvesting activities would be carried out by private sector loggers, the costs of meeting norms
are not project costs. Rather, these costs would be borne by the logger and would be reflected in the timber bid price.



Annex H2
Page 27 of 27
TABLE 6. DIRECT COSTS & FINANCING FOR IMPLEMENTATIoN OF ENVmRONMENTAL. ACTIVriTES1
TOTAL BASE
COST                    % FINANCING
ACTIVITY                                           USS '000        IDA           GOH           Other
Road rehabilitation
*  vegetative stabilization and road drainage systems
Subtotal     90,000         80%           20%
93,284.1
Upland Producers Fund
*  pre-requisites of participatory diagnostics.                                           227.5          25%                          75%
*  forest management planning & implementation.
*  forest management and annual operating plans in state forest land reviewed and approved by
AFE-COHDEFOR.                                                                          NA'
*  monitoring and supervision by AFE-COHDEFOR (review and approval forest and micro-
watershed management plans).                                                           NA1
*  monitoring and supervision of compliance by Fund manager (content of proposals, pre-
financing inspection, implementation.).                                                432           100%
*  promotion and extension of appropriate natural resource management practices (e.g., IPM;  2,400       100%
soil and moisture conservation; soil fertility management, etc.).
*  promotion, extension, technical assistance, and training for participatory microwatershed  350        100%
planning and management
*  promotion and signing of micro-watershed management agreements with municipal          NA1
governments by AFE-COHDEFOR                                                            300           90%                          10%
*  training to inprove technical capacity for appropriate natural resource management.
Subtotal
3,709.5
Blodiversitys
*  application of complementary, alternative administrative instnmments within Proteded Areas
System.                                                                                NA1
*  SERNA participation and agreement on protected areas prioritization scheme.             NAX
*  enforcement of protected area boundaries.
200
Infrastructure development (in Protected Areas)
*  environmental impact assessments (on a park-by-park basis) for the design and siting of
infrastructure developments.
*  inclusion of eia recommendations in design, construction financing.                      30
Subtotal      60
290
TOTAL                                            100.971.6
Compliance would be assured through the existing performance bond requirements, with the Dept. of Norms and Control
approving release of the bond.
4    US$ 1.0 million for forest management planning & implementation, accounted for under "Forest management planning and
implementation, financing of training and technical services for community participation under usufruct contracts".
5    Includes gap analysis of Protected Area System and biodiversity monitoring, accounted for under "Forest management
planning and implementation".



Annex H3
Page 1 of 14
HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT AND PARTICIPATION PLAN
OBJECTIVES
1.    A social assessment was carried out as part of project preparation with the
following objectives: (a) to evaluate existing patterns of resource ownership,
management and use among different groups and institutions in the project area; (b) to
identify stake-holders who should be involved in preparation and implementation and to
obtain their inputs on project scope and design; (c) to identify potentially negative
impacts of proposed activities on vulnerable groups in the population, including women
and indigenous groups, and design measures to prevent or mitigate these impacts; and
(d) to identify opportunities to build local capacity of NGOs, producer and traditional
organizations and local government to plan and carry out project activities. A
Participation Action Plan was prepared as one product of that social assessment. This
annex summarizes the findings of the social assessment and the recommendations that
have been included in the Participation Action Plan. This includes findings and
recommendations on indigenous peoples and gender concerns and a matrix extracting
costs of activities related to participation and incorporation of special interest groups
from the overall cost tables.
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT PROCESS
2.    The social assessment included: (a) analysis of the stake-holders in the land
administration and natural resources sector; (b) a participatory rural appraisal of
representative communities in the Natural Resources Management component area by a
multi-disciplinary team; (c) analysis of an extensive secondary literature on social impacts
of the land titling program; (d) meetings with NGOs working with upland farmers and
forest producers throughout the country; (e) meetings with members of the national
indigenous federation and with traditional leaders, including indigenous leaders, in the
project area; and (f) a workshop with women's organizations to elicit their views on
project design. An international gender specialist and two international indigenous/social
specialists participated in preparation to oversee in-country work on these aspects of
project design. Because there would not be significant potentially negative impacts on
indigenous groups, no separate Indigenous Peoples Development Plan was prepared, but
instead the activities related to indigenous peoples development have been described
within the overall plan of participation.



Annex H3
Page 2 of 14
PROFILE OF PROJECT BENEFICIARIES AND LOCAL ORGANIZATIONS
POPULATION IN THE UPLANDS AND THE PROJECT AREA
3.    There are, according to the 1993 agricultural census, 237,863 farm families with
less than 10 hectare covering 587,576 hectares of land and 227,642 farms of less than 5
hectares with 384,078 hectares in Honduras. Most of the farmers with less than 5
hectares are found in the marginal uplands. Families with less than 10 hectares farm
17.6% of all agricultural holdings in the country, and comprise 54.3% of the population.
These small holders produce mainly white maize, beans, a creole variety sorghum
(maicillo), and rice. Maize is produced by 75 % of small-scale farmers and beans by a
third. Sorghum is produced by 52% of farmers in the south and is used primarily as cattle
feed. There is little reliable data on the extent of cattle pasture, but it is extensive-- 1993
census figures are 1.5 million hectares under pasture while extrapolations from 1991
region-1 data estimate 2.6 million hectares under pasture. In comparison to other Central
American countries, the cattle expansion phase began later and continued after political
conflicts had checked expansion in neighboring countries.
4.    Many of the upland farmers cultivate land classified as part of the public forest
estate. As described in Annex B, Land Administration Component, farmers cultivating
lands classified as public are eligible for title should the land be judged of agricultural
vocation. All other lands are classified as forest vocation and can be cultivated through
usufruct, but not titled. The main forested areas of the north and west are the agricultural
frontier. Many of the upland farmers in this area migrated from poorer regions in the
south and east or moved into the hilly areas after selling their plots to cattle ranchers.
Since 1982, Honduras has had an active land titling program to give title to smallholders
settled on agricultural lands within the public estate. Through this program, 77,000 titles
have been given for about 660,000 hectares. In addition, some cooperatives were given
titles, but by 1993 only 993 of these remained with 144,697 hectares, mostly in the
valleys. Most of the former cooperative members are seeking individual titles from INA.
The number of farm families still without title is estimated to be around 200,000 of which
about one half would not qualify for title since their holding is less than 1 hectare or
classified as urban areas. The first phase of the land administration pilot in 15
municipalities alone is predicted to identify 6,000 farms eligible for title.
5.    The small-farmer population in the 14 public forest management field unit
boundaries of the three Departments included in the project area--Yoro, Olancho and San
Francisco Morazon--is 14,775 families. These are the majority of families in the project
area. While land holding figures are not available for the upland areas of these
Departments, more than 95% of the families in the rapid rural appraisal communities
were small-holders with less than 2.5 has. and the majority had some land holdings in
addition to their homesteads, however marginal. Most did not have title to their
agricultural holdings. Apart from limited mid and larger sized farmers in the valleys and
some uplands of the project Departments, therefore, the large majority of the upland
farmers are small, subsistence farmers with marginal holdings, both in size and quality.
The upland fund would provide support to landed farmers in agriculture and agro-



Annex H3
Page 3 of 14
forestry and to landless residents in municipal or social forestry initiatives on ejido and
public lands.
INDIGENOUS PEOPLE
6.   In Honduras, the indigenous population (including black Caribbean communities)
is organized in eight separate indigenous groups, numbering about 293,000 inhabitants
and comprising 12.8 percent of the total population (1988 Census). Membership to a
specific group is determined by language affiliation. The eight groups and their location
are the following:
*  Lenca in the La Paz; Intibuca; Lempira and Santa Barbara Departments, with
100,000 inhabitants
*  Xicaques or Tolupanes, with 28 tribes distributed in 6 municipalities of
Yoro Department; and 19,300 people in Orica and Marales of Francisco
Morazan Department.
-  Garifuna or "caribes negros" in Cortez; Atlantida; Col6n; Gracias a Dios and
Islas de la Bahia, with a estimated population of 98,000 inhabitants,
distributed in 38 communities
-  Miskitos, in Gracias a Dios Department with about 49,000 inhabitants,
distributed in 107 communities
-  Pech or Paya, distributed in the Dulce, Nombre de Culmi and San Esteban
municipalities in the Olancho Department; and Brus Laguna in the Gracias a
Dios Department with 2,600 inhabitants
*  Tawahka or Sumus, with 900 inhabitants in 7 communities along the Rio
Patuca River
*  Chorti, in Copan and Ocotepeque Departments with about 4,200 inhabitants.
*  Islefios or Black Population with a distinct language found in the Litoral
Atlantico in the Ceiba, Tela, Puerto Cortez and the Islas de la Bahia with
about 20,000 inhabitants
7.   In the area of influence of the natural resources component there are 16,800
indigenous people, making up 21 percent of the total population of the area. In addition,
the protected areas component would strengthen staffing in the Mosquitia Region to
complement the proposed GEF project under preparation. The protected area in this
region includes a significant portion of the 49,000 Miskitos and Tawahkas distributed in
107 communities. While there are no indigenous populations in the pilot areas of the land



Annex H3
Page 4 of 14
administration component of Comayagua and Siguatepeque, Olancho--programmed for
year 2 of the project--includes Tawahka, Pech, and Garifuna.
INDIGENOUS ORGANIZATIONS
8.   Indigenous organizations in general combine elements of their traditional culture
with those of the non-indigenous society, including economic strategies, politico-
administrative aspects and religious factors. The levels of organizations go from the
community (village, township) to tribal and regional ethnic organizations. Particularly in
recent times, the lower level organizations have formed federations at the ethnic level.
Nevertheless, these organizations are still fairly weak and vulnerable to outside factors.
The relative weakness affects the federations' capacity to carry out effective actions in
favor of their members and this in turn makes them more susceptible to criticism.
*  The Lenca people are represented by the Organizaci6n Indigena Lenca de
Honduras (ONILH), formed by the Consejos Indigenas Locales (Indigenous
Councils at the municipal level) and the Consejo Indigena Departmental
(Indigenous Council at the departmental level). This organization is still in
process of formation and has only 4,000 members, belonging to 36
communities.
*  The Tolupanes are represented by the Federaci6n de Tribus Xicaques de
Yoro (FETRIXY), whose first-tier organizations are the Asambleas de
Tribus (Tribes Assemblies), Congreso de Tribus (Tribal Congress), Consejo
Directivo (Board of Directors) and Comite Ejecutivo (Executive Committee).
*  The Pech have organized at national level in the Federaci6n de Tribus Pech
de Honduras (FETRIPH), following the Tolupanes model.
*  The Misquitos are represented by the Mosquitia-Asla Takanka - Unidad
de la Mosquitia (MASTA). This in turn is formed by seven federations. In
reality, the organization of the Misquitos is very loose. Alliances are not
permanent, usually involving geographic or commercial interests under the
leadership of a Zuqia or Tribal Chief.
*  The Chorti are not organized at the national level. This is one specific case of
a population who have been heavily acculturated and largely become
campesinos.
*  The Garifunas are represented by the Organizaci6n Fraternal Negra
Hondurefia (OFRANEH), although its degree of representation is weak.
*  The Tawahka have organized the Federaci6n Indigena Tawahka of
Honduras (FITH), but it is also in the process of consolidation.



Annex H3
Page 5 of 14
9.    Since 1992, all of the above indigenous organizations and peoples, except for the
Chorti and Islefios, are members of a national level organization, the Coordinadora
Nacional de Pueblos Autoctonos de Honduras (CONPAH).
NON-INDIGENOUS POPULATION
10.  In the area of influence of the Natural Resources Management component, non-
indigenous groups represent 66,200 inhabitants, or 79 percent of the total population.
The relevant forms of organization are based on productive activities and upon
geographical coverage and include: (a) Productive Cooperatives at the first-tier level of
organization, in general based at community level; (b) Patronatos; with local level
community base organization and no juridical recognition; (c) Municipalities; at the
municipal or lowest level of formal government organization; (d) Agro-forestry
Federations as second-tier productive organizations; and (e) Confederations or third-tier
organizations. Coffee is an important cash crop in the uplands and farmers' cooperatives
are strongly linked to the Honduran Coffee Institute's prograrn of research and extension.
The first- and second-tier organizations in Honduras are beginning to mature as strong,
independent entities, rather than serving as in the past as a relatively weak entity within
stronger top-down federations.
11.  There is also a number of NGOs which work in the project area with upland
farmers and forestry organizations providing rural development assistance and capacity
building, which are described in Annex D. Some of the more national NGOs have begun
to work with first and second-tier organizations to develop their capacity to deliver
development assistance. The unique feature of the more successful NGOs is the use of a
farmer-to-farmer extension methodology, whereby interested farmers are trained in the
basic principles of a new practice and encouraged to experiment in adapting the practice
to their own farm and in transferring the knowledge of basic principles to other
interested farmers. The system of information transfer which results is self-sustaining
and usually leads to adoption of practices which are appropriate to the farmers' needs
and resources. The large majority of farmers in the uplands are not linked to formal
credit institutions and, even in the informal sector, the main source of capital is
household savings. A few NGOs, such as FINCA-Honduras or World Relief, have
established savings mobilization programs to organize farmers' groups for informal
credit networks. There is a considerable potential for such mobilization, particularly
with rural women.
12.  For the Land Administration Modernization component the estimated population
is 1,679,042 inhabitants spread over 46,640.9 km2 in the Departments of Comayagua,
Cortes, Yoro and Olancho.
KEY ISSUES FOR PARTICIPATION AND ACTION PLANS
13.  The social assessment has identified a number of key issues which have been
addressed in project design, as described below:



Annex H3
Page 6 of 14
(a)   Land and Forest Tenure. For indigenous populations, there are
constraints to registration of indigenous land and forest rights under the
folio real, due to the lack of legal identify of most of the first-tier
indigenous community organizations that comprise ethnic federations and
to the overlapping of traditional indigenous areas of influence and private
land holdings established during the colonial and post-colonial period by
hispanic families. Currently, under the Land Reform Law and the
Agricultural Modernization Law, indigenous groups can elect either to
receive individual or communal title to lands within traditional, indigenous
territories. As in other countries of Latin America, Honduran indigenous
groups are increasingly electing the communal title option to help preserve
tenure to traditional territories. Communal title also has implications for
forest tenure as indigenous populations are more likely to legitimate title
to forest areas within their territories when their entire domain is titled
communally. Otherwise such areas are considered national forests owned
by the State.
Recommended Action: There are several ways in which the Land
Administration component would address indigenous tenure issues. The
initial land adjudication in Comayagua does not affect indigenous
populations, but the land and forest tenure issues would be explored by
indigenous groups under the IDF grant currently being processed. It is
expected that concrete recommendations would emerge from the IDF-
funded activities which can be used to modify the pilot approach, as
needed. As the adjudication process is extended to Olancho and Yoro,
both with indigenous populations, the system would be modified to
address these issues. Teams of INA promoters involved in the
adjudication process would also receive special orientation and training.
If requested, indigenous groups can also be provided legal assistance and
training to establish the legal identify of first-tier organizations seeking
separate forest rights or communal tenure at a more appropriate level.
The associated GEF project would have more specific actions on the
demarcation of protected areas and adjudication of indigenous rights to
forest areas within protected areas and surrounding buffer zones.
(b)   Role of Traditional Organizations and Farmers' Groups. The role of
indigenous traditional organizations and of productive organizations has
not been effectively analyzed in SAG programs in the past, with the result
that participation has often been focused on leaders of federations who do
not represent the first-tier organizations adequately. Nor is there a
transparent process for consultation of these organizations by the
municipal authorities in local development initiatives.
Recommended Action: This issue has been explored in project design
and productive organizations have been consulted at various stages in the
design of the natural resources and upland fund components by DICTA,



Annex H3
Page 7 of 14
AFE-COHDEFOR, and UPEG. Training and orientation activities
coordinated by the PCU are planned for the implementation of these two
components on indigenous political organization and opportunities for
broader participation and on consultation with farmers' groups interested
in preparing proposals or seeking assistance from appropriate NGOs.
NGOs are also eligible to include requests in their proposals for technical
assistance funds to build capacity of first- and second-tier organizations to
develop their own research and extension packages. In the development
of management strategies for ejido forests under municipal jurisdiction,
AFE-COHDEFOR extension staff and consultants would ensure the
consultation process explores the potential role of a wide range of local
organizations. To ensure wider participation in the Upland Fund, criteria
and procedures have been designed to be transparent and relatively simple.
These criteria would be evaluated at mid-term and adjusted based on this
evaluation.
(c)   Forest Management and Use. Except for the pilot initiatives in smaller
blocks of forest, such as those implemented with Canadian and Finnish
assistance, there has not been a systematic process of determining the
relative rights and interests of communities residing in and around forest
areas or for allocating use rights for traditional or new products. Nor
have these populations benefited from economic analysis of the relative
returns from different management strategies, whether management of
small blocks by cooperative groups or management on a more commercial
scale to attract larger, private harvesting and processing enterprises and
local employment.
Recommended Action: The Natural Resources Management component
defines a process for incorporating local populations in the design and
implementation of forest master plans for the forestry and protected areas
included in the project. This process would be refined, based on overall
criteria agreed during preparation, through a work program under the
general direction of the PCU and involving the extension wing of AFE-
COHDEFOR and the parks department. The Upland Fund would finance
proposals for support to municipalities and cooperative groups seeking to
develop forest management and forest enterprise capacity, as well as
provide technical assistance and training to upland residents seeking wider
employment in forestry enterprises, both formal and informal. A system of
consultation would be built into forest management plans to ensure
updating of management plans through a participatory process involving
relevant stake-holders.
(d)  Participation in Decision-Making and Implementation. The
participatory rural appraisal identified a number of constraints to
participation the design of government programs and their
implementation, including the lack of knowledge of government activities



Annex H3
Page 8 of 14
by more remote uplanid populations, the lack of formal property rights of
upland inhabitants which excluded them from many programs, and the
lack of institutional and financial capacity of municipal offices to design
and implement long-term development programs.
Recommended Action: The project would include a system of
participatory monitoring and evaluation that includes the project
beneficiaries and their local organizations in the periodic evaluation of the
success of project activities and would include orientation and training of
beneficiaries in the design of M&E indicators and tools that enable them
to express their opinions about the progress of the project. In particular,
the consultant firm (Fund Manager) eliciting and evaluating proposals for
the Upland Fund would train beneficiaries or work with participating
NGOs to train beneficiaries in these methods and channel conclusions to
the Advisory Committee. Forest master plans would also be monitored by
local communities and municipal authorities.
(e)   Project Management Capacity to Implement Participation Plan.
There is little social science or participatory planning and implementation
expertise in UPEG or the various departments within AFE-COHDEFOR
or DICTA that would ensure a comprehensive vision for implementing the
Participation Plan or provide guidance to implementing staff of other
disciplines. While INA has considerable experience with field adjudication
of land tenure rights, there is no central office responsible for indigenous
policy, apart from some attention to the issues by one of the legal
specialists. Nor is there a clear responsibility for gender or indigenous
issues within SAG for longer-term sustainability of activities.
Recommended Action. SAG would contract a specialist in social and
participation issues for the PCU who would oversee incorporation of
these issues into the project components, implementation of the elements
of the participation plan, and supervision of consultants contracted to
undertake special studies or specific participation or consultation
activities. This specialist would also work with UPEG/UPEG, advising
the unit on how best to coordinate attention to these issues within SAG
and suggesting staffing needs. AFE-COHDEFOR plans to strengthen the
capacity of the Promotion and Extension Department and to work with
the newly created Center for Training and Research on Environment and
Sustainable Forestry Development in Lapaterique on training of
indigenous organizations. The Division of Legal Services in INA plans to
develop a strategy for addressing indigenous tenure issues in the land
adjudication process, which would be discussed with indigenous
organizations.
(f)    Gender Considerations. The difference in access to land and agricultural
and forestry production support services between men and women, has a



Annex H3
Page 9 of 14
relevant impact on the economy of rural households and reduces rural
development opportunities. Though women represent an important group
among rural producers, they have received minimum benefits from the
land titling program or from agriculture or forestry services. While more
women are receiving land titles since the Agricultural Modernization Law
recognized their land rights, many women in the project area reside in
areas of forest vocation that cannot be titled. There is also little titling of
couples, especially since common law marriages are not recognized as a
basis for joint land titling in the absence of onerous documentation.
Recommended Action: To address the overall lack of a gender
orientation in the activities of the SAG agencies involved in the project, a
program of gender training would be designed and implemented. This
training program would be targeted to all professional and technical
personnel of the public institutions responsible for the coordination and
implementation of the components, to private development organizations
and NGOs providing services in the rural areas, especially through the
Upland Producers' Fund. Both PDOs and NGOs would need to receive
training as a condition to be eligible to provide services, the cost of
training would be their responsibility. The program would be under the
PCU and would be implemented by the Pan-American Agricultural School
-- El Zamorano -- where a permanent information network would be set
up for service training providers at national and Central American levels.
Training would be aimed to address specific detected needs of each
component. The criteria for selection of proposals for the Upland Fund
would also include preference for technical assistance targeted explicitly to
women farmers and forest managers. INA and CSJ have agreed to
evaluate the restrictions on joint titling of common law couples and to
present an action plan for increasing women's access to land. Project
performance indicators have also been included to measure progress on
the incorporation of gender concerns.
LDF FOR STRENGTHENING OF INDIGENOUS INSTITUTIONS
14.  The IDF which has been identified for indigenous strengthening would provide
resources for capacity-building in a number of areas related to natural resources
management and land tenure. Indigenous groups seek training in local planning and
design of development initiatives, technical and business management tools to evaluate
their capacity to undertake forestry-based enterprises, tools for community forestry
management, including sites in and around protected areas, and training in legal aspects
of individual and communal land tenure systems to enable members to make more
educated decisions about the type of land tenure which would most benefit themselves
and their families. The outputs of the IDF would include building capacity of indigenous
groups to make proposals to the Upland Fund and to participate more pro-actively in
forest management and protected areas activities.



TABLE 1: ESTIMATED COSTS OF PARTICIPATION PLAN                                                          a >
(extracted from global cost tables)
COMPONENT/SUB          PARTICIPATION ACTIVITY BY                 BENEFICIARIES             ESTIMATED BUDGET SAR (US DOLLARS)
-COMPONENT                 THEMATIC AREA                _
GOV'T          INDIGENOUS  YEAR  YEAR  YEAR  YEAR  YEAR  Total
AGENCY          ORG.          1       2       3       4       5
Project Coordination  Supervise and execute the participation  Gender activity   women's  75000  75000  75000  75000  75000  375000
Unit               plan, gender activities and the indigenous   PCU, UPSA,    organization,
a) Social          development plan                       INA, AFE-       first and
participation                                             COHDEFOR        second tier    24000                                  24000
Specialist                                                                organizations
b) Consultancy     Specific social studies, Project supervision   Govermment             96000                                  96000
Fund                                                      agencies and
PCU
c) IDF Indigenous   Institutional strengthening of                        direct: 90     153830                                 153830
Training           organizational, technical and management               rep's. of the
capacities of the indigenous organization              indigenous
orgs.
indirect: 8
ethnic groups
Management of      Promotion and Extension, technical                                    6400   6400   6400   6400   6400   32000
Natural Resources   training, research, administration,
and Institutional    information system
Strengthening



COMPONENT/SUB          PARTICIPATION ACTIVITY BY                 BENEFICIARIES              ESTIMATED BUDGET SAR (US DOLLARS)
-COMPONENT                 THEMATIC AREA
GOV'T          INDIGENOUS  YEAR [YEAR  YEAR  YEAR  YEAR  Total
AGENCY          ORG.           1     12       3       4       5
Upland production   sustainable development of basic foods,  Technicians,                48000  48000  48000  48000  48000  240000
fund, transfer of  sustainable management of natural forest,
agricultural and   management of micro watersheds         and students     direct: 800   60000  60000  60000  60000  60000  300000
forestry technology,                                                      fanilies,
technology                                                                 indirect: 2000
generation, training                                                       indigenous
for generation and                                                         families
transfer
Biodiversity       Forest management                      Forest rangers,  Indigenous    5000   5000   5000   5000   5000   25000
planning,          Management plans                       Technical forest  orgs.,
management of                                             rangers          indigenous
protected areas,   Administration and human resources     Administrative   NGOs, first
traditional use and                                       personnel        and second tier
sustainable                                                                of traditional
management, and                                                            authorities
monitoring
l 3.



COMPONENT/SUB          PARTICIPATION ACTIVITY BY                BENEFICIARIES              ESTIMATED BUDGET SAR (US DOLLARS)
-COMPONENT                 THEMATIC AREA_____
GOV'T           INDIGENOUS YEAR  YEAR  YEAR  YEAR  YEAR  Total                  a
AGENCY         ORG.           1       2       3      4       5
Land administration  Rural and urban promotion           Technical       first and      13300                                  13300
Phase I: Pilot     GPS                                   promoters,      second tier
project Villa San  Territorial information system        technicians/    organizations
Antonio                                                  administrators,
Cadastre and                                             professionals
Administration
Register: (Folio   Register                              Registrars,     first and              5700                           5700
Real)              Technique of Folio Real               operators,      second tier
Temporary index system                professional    organizations
operators
Phase II: 14       Territorial information system        Technicians                    9200                                   9200
municipalities,
Comayagua Cadastre
and Adjudication
Register (Folio Real) Register                            System admin.,                9000                                   9000
registrars,
operators, users
Folio Real                                            First and      16000                                  16000
second tier org.
Phase III:         Community participation               Promoters       First and              5100                           5100
Siguatepeque       Other                                                 second tier org.       11300                          11300
cadastre and
adjudication
Register (Folio Real) Administration of the system        System         First and      26200                                  26200
Folio Real                            administrators,  second tier org.
users
Phase IV:          Community participation               Promoters       First and                      10300                  10300
Departamento of    Other                                                 second tier org.               11300                  11300
Cortes cadastre and
adjudication
Register           Register SPS, administration of the system,           _     _System  I _f_7800                              7800



COMPONENT/SUB          PARTICIPATION ACTIVITY BY                 BENEFICIARIES               ESTIMATED BUDGET SAR (US DOLLARS)
-COMPONENT                 THEMATIC AREA
GOV'T           INDIGENOUS  YEAR  YEAR  YEAR  YEAR  YEAR  Total
AGENCY          ORG.           1      2       3       4       5
Folio Real                             administrators,
users
Register of the Department of Cortes,  System
administration of the system, Folio Real    administrators,
users
Department of      Community participation,               Promoters        First and                             10300           10300
Olancho cadastre                                                           second tier org.                      11300           11300
and adjudication   Other
Register (Folio Real) Register number 1: Administration of the   System                                  4900                    4900
system, Folio Real                     administrators,
operators
Register number 2: Administration of the    System
system,, Folio Real                    administrators,
operators
Department of Yoro  Community participation               Promoters        First and                     10300                   10300
cadastre and                                                               second tier org.              11300                   11300
adjudication       Other
Register (Folio Real) Register number 1: Administration of the    System                         6400   3200                     9600
system, Folio Real                     administrators,
operators
Register number 2: Administration of the   System
system (Folio Real)                    administrator,
operators
Total               _                                                                    528630 363600 306300 272200 207200 1677930
Ro



Annex H3
Page 14 of 14
LAND HOLDINGS IN THE DEPARTMENTS INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT AREA
FARM SIZE                                                                                       l
DEPARTAMENTO/MUNICIPIO          <1         1<3        3<5    Total Farms  Total Area
FRANCISCO MORAZAN                 5,928       9751       2890       23828     215028.7
OLANCHO                            3148       8519       3639       27947     544540.4
YORO                               4218       7438       2261       19974     272653.5
COLON                              3513       3534        976       11910     181081.5
Number of Farms
DEPARTAMENTO/MUNICIPIO
FRANCISCO MORAZAN          No. of Farms   Area                                                  l
Guaimaca                           1205    30516.8
El Porvenir                        1367    12967.1
Talanga                            1234    15762.9
OLANCHO                                        .
San Esteban
Catacamas                          4598   118264.8
Culmi                              1859    53005.7
Gualaco                            1405    27986.4              .
YORO
Agua Fria
Jocon                               404     8393.1
Morazan                            2821    21861.2
Olanchito                          2710    76603.7                      .             .
Yoro                               4449      61585
COLON
Saba                                966     8018.6
Bonito Oriental                    1310      22336
Rural Population
DEPARTAMENTO/MUNICIPIO         Male       Female      Total      Total
FRANCISCO MORAZAN                107482    104192    211674        315866
OLANCHO                          111703    104887    216590        321477
YORO                             111860    105247    217107        322354
COLON                             54726      51899     106625      1585241



Annex I1
HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Detailed Plan Contents
Introduction
I:    The Project
A.    Rationale
B.    Project Objectives
C.    Outputs
D.    Project Description
Land Administration Component
Natural Resource Management Component
Fund for Upland Producers Component
Biodiversity Conservation Component
E.    Participation Action Plan
F.    Environmental Action Plan
G.    Project Costs and Financing Plan
11:   Institutional Arrangements
A.    Within the Ministry of Natural Resources
B.    Between the Ministry of Natural Resources and other Participant Institutions
C.    Matrix: Participant Institutions and their roles
mII:   Monitoring Program
A.    Performance and Impact Indicators
B.    Monitoring System
IV:   Implementation Process
A.    Supervision Program
B.    Audits
C.    Conditionalities
V:    Critical Aspects
A.    Risks
Annexes



Annex 12
Page 1 of 10
SECRETARiA DE RECURSOS NATURALES
DIRECCION DE CIENCIA Y TECNOLOGiA AGROPECUARIA
CONSEJO NACIONAL DE CILENCTA Y TECNOLOGiA AGROPECUARIA
FONDO COMPETITIVO PARA EL FINANCIAMIENTO DE PROYECTOS DE
GENERACION Y TRANSFERENCIA DE TECNOLOGIA AGROPECUARIA
REGLAMENTO OPERATWVO
OBJETIVOS DEL FONDO
El Fondo para el Financiamiento de Proyectos de Generacion y Transferencia de
Tecnologia Agropecuaria (FONDO) tiene por objeto apoyar las actividades de investigaci6n,
transferencia y capacitaci6n de t6cnicos en el sector agricola, a traves del estimulo al desarrollo
del mercado de servicios tecnicos de apoyo al sector, con el fin de mejorar la productividad de los
factores productivos, mejorar la competitividad de los productos agricolas nacionales, y proteger
los recursos naturales.
El FONDO financiara proyectos en las siguientes cinco areas estrategicas: promoci6n de
exportaciones agricolas no tradicionales; mejoramiento de la productividad de granos basicos;
diversificaci6n hacia cultivos de alto valor; mejoramiento de la utilizaci6n del suelo; y, protecci6n
del suelo y los recursos naturales.
DEFJNICIONES
Proyectos de Generaci6n de Tecnologia Agropecuaria. Se refiere a una serie de
actividades coordinadas para producir mejores procesos de combinar factores (tierra, mano de
obra, agua, capital) e insumos (semillas, agroquimicos) para producir un cultivo en forma mas
eficiente. Se incluye el mejoramiento de las propiedades de cualquiera de los factores o insumos
conducentes a mejorar la eficiencia de la producci6n, tales como, desarrollo de semillas
mejoradas, disefio de mejores practicas de cultivo, disefio de equipo mas eficiente, mejor
utilizaci6n de fertilizantes, disefio de tecnicas y metodos de control de malezas y plagas.
Proyectos de Transferencia de Tecnologia. Se refiere a las actividades por medio de las
cuales los agricultores con el apoyo de los proveedores de servicios obtienen el conocimiento y la
capacidad para utilizar tecnologias disponibles y mejorar la eficiencia de su producci6n o para
introducir nuevos cultivos; incluye la transferencia de conocimiento y pricticas empresariales y de
mercadeo.
Proyectos de Capacitaci6n de Tecnicos. Son cursos, seminarios o eventos cuya
finalidad es transferir o actualizar conocimientos aplicables sobre aspectos especificos a tecnicos



Annex 12
Page 2 of 10
investigadores o extensionistas para ser utilizados en sus labores en el sector. Esta capacitaci6n
debe reflejar las necesidades especificas de las actividades de transferencia.
ACTIVIDADES ELEGIBLES Y PRIORIDADES
Seran elegibles para financiamiento con recursos del FONDO los proyectos de generaci6n
y transferencia de tecnologia agropecuaria (GTTA), de acuerdo con las areas estrategicas
establecidas en el numeral 1.2, bajo las siguientes modalidades: 1. Generaci6n de tecnologia, con
enfasis en procesos de validaci6n y adaptaci6n; 2. Transferencia de tecnologia a grupos
prioritarios; y, 3. Capacitaci6n de tecnicos en areas especificas requeridas por las actividades de
investigaci6n y de transferencia de tecnologia.
Seran elegibles para financiamiento con recursos del FONDO los proyectos en los
siguientes subsectores: agricultura, ganaderia, forestal, acuicultura y pesca, avicultura y
apicultura, de acuerdo con las prioridades establecidas en cada modalidad.
Prioridades. Los proyectos de generaci6n de tecnologia a ser financiados por el FONDO
deberan orientarse principalmente a los rubros definidos en el Apendice A, los cuales podran ser
modificados de acuerdo con los resultados del Plan Nacional de GTTA. Los proyectos de
transferencia de tecnologia estaran dirigidos a grupos de pequenlos y medianos agricultores con
potencial comercial y explotaciones financieramente viables. Los proyectos de capacitaci6n de
tecnicos estaran orientados principalmente a las areas requeridas por los proyectos de generaci6n
de transferencia de tecnologia.
El FONDO financiara: honorarios de profesionales, salarios de personal de apoyo,
viAticos, servicios de transporte, materiales para uso demostrativo (semillas, agroquimicos),
equipo (costo de uso), servicios de laboratorio, y otros rubros para uso exclusivo del proyecto.
El FONDO no financiara: inversiones a nivel de finca, a menos que sean para uso
exclusivo del proyecto y los grupos participantes; compra o arriendo de tierras; compra de
vehiculos. Las parcelas que se requieran para uso demostrativo o experimental debera ser
aportadas por los beneficiarios (individuos o instituciones).
BENEFICIARIOS
Los beneficiarios de los recursos del FONDO puede ser personas naturales o juridicas,
individuales o asociadas, proveedores de servicios, grupos de agricultores elegibles, asociaciones
gremiales, o instituciones puiblicas.
En el caso de proyectos de generaci6n de tecnologia, los beneficiarios directos seran las
instituciones o investigadores debidamente calificados en el Registro de Proveedores de Servicios
de GTTA de la DICTA. Sin embargo, todo proyecto de generaci6n debera demostrar que tiene
beneficios potenciales viables a corto y mediano plazo a nivel de los beneficiarios.



Annex 12
Page 3 of 10
Los beneficiarios de los recursos del FONDO para financiamiento de proyectos de
transferencia de tecnologia seran los agricultores, organizados en grupos, que demuestren tener
potencial para absorber los cambios tecnol6gicos propuestos y mejorar su participaci6n en el
mercado. En particular, los agricultores beneficiarios deberan:
(a) ser productores con potencial para aumentar en forma significativa su producci6n para
el mercado;
(b) tener tierras aptas para la agricultura ya sea en propiedad, arriendo, prestamo u otra
forma de tenencia siempre y cuando garantice su utilizaci6n apropiada; los grupos de
agricultores deberan tener como minimo un total de 100 hectareas de tierra cultivable,
apta para la agricultura;
(c) trabajar de tiempo completo en la agricultura;
(d) demostrar interes en introducir nuevas tecnologias, nuevos cultivos, o mej ores
practicas agricolas, para lo cual deberan entrar en un contrato con los proveedores de
servicios y con el FONDO como condici6n para el financiamiento.
(e) ser pequefios o medianos agricultores con explotaciones no mayores de 25 hectareas.
Las solicitudes de financiamiento de proyectos de transferencia de tecnologia deberan
incluir una caracterizaci6n de los beneficiarios acorde con estos criterios.
En el caso de proyectos de capacitaci6n de tecnicos, los beneficiarios directos seran los
t6cnicos capacitados, quienes deberan estar asociados directamente con labores de generaci6n y/o
transferencia de tecnologia o asistencia tecnica. La entidad capacitante, como parte de la solicitud
debera presentar los criterios de selecci6n de los participantes de acuerdo con las Guias emitidas
por el FONDO.
PROVEEDORES DE SERVICIOS
Los proveedores de servicios de GTAA deberan ser personas naturales o juridicas,
individuales o asociadas, que cumplan con los siguientes criterios:
(a) Tener la capacidad tecnica demostrada para prestar el servicio para el cual se solicita
financiamiento.
(b) Tener la capacidad logistica (transporte, equipo, personal de apoyo) para ejecutar
eficientemente las acciones que el proyecto demande.
(c) Tener la capacidad financiera que le permita operar independientemente de los
desembolsos del FONDO. Para esto debera demostrar que tiene un flujo de caja
suficiente para cubrir tres meses de operaci6n del proyecto.



Annex 12
Page 4 of 10
(d) Estar inscrito y debidamente calificado en el Registro de Proveedores de Servicios de
GTTA de la DICTA.
(e) Haber entrado en un acuerdo con los beneficiarios, en el caso de proyectos de
transferencia de tecnologia, que estipule las responsabilidades de cada uno durante la
ejecuci6n del proyecto.
(f) Para los proyectos de investigaci6n y capacitaci6n, un proveedor individual deberi
estar debidamente apoyado por una instituci6n reconocida con la infraestructura
tecnica necesaria para ejecutar el proyecto y con los servicios de apoyo administrativo
y contable para facilitar el- cumplimiento de los compromisos contractuales con el
FONDO.
CONDICIONES DE COFINANCIAMIENTO
Uno de los objetivos fundamentales del FONDO es el desarrollo del mercado de servicios
agropecuarios, por lo cual se requiere la participaci6n efectiva de los beneficiarios en el
financiamiento de los proyectos, de acuerdo con las normas que se estipulan en este capitulo.
Estas normas podran ser modificadas por el Consejo de Administraci6n en consulta con el Banco,
segun lo estipulado en el capitulo XIV.
Proyectos de generaci6n de tecnologia. Se financiarin proyectos con un costo maximo
de US$100,000 por proyecto, con periodos de ejecuci6n hasta de 3 anios, renovables anualmente.
La elegibilidad de financiamiento para el segundo y tercer afno se determinari con base en el
cumplimiento de las metas establecidas para el anio anterior y los recursos disponibles del
FONDO. El FONDO podra financiar hasta el 70% del costo total del proyecto, y dara preferencia
a los proyectos que incluyan mejores aportes de otras fuentes a traves de las instituciones
beneficiarias de acuerdo con los criterios establecidos en el Apendice A. Los recursos
provenientes de estos aportes deberan ser exclusivamente asignados al proyecto.
Proyectos de Transferencia de Tecnologia. Se financiarin proyectos con un costo
maximo de US$ 100,000, con periodos de ejecuci6n hasta de 5 afios, renovables anualmente; esta
renovaci6n estari sujeta al cumplimiento de las metas fijadas para el anio anterior. Los pequenos
productores aportaran el 10% del costo del proyecto durante el primer afio, el 20% durante el
segundo afio, el 30% durante el tercero, el 40% durante el cuarto y el 50% durante el quinto afio.
Para el caso de los productores medianos, esta escala sera de 20, 40, 60, 80 y 100%
respectivamente. Estos aportes deberan ser depositados a favor del FONDO en un plazo de tres
meses despues de la aprobaci6n del financiamiento.
Proyectos de capacitaci6n de tecnicos. Se financiaran cursos especificos de
capacitaci6n de tecnicos en areas prioritarias presentados por instituciones con capacidad y
experiencia comprobadas en las areas propuestas. Las entidades solicitantes deberan aportar las
instalaciones fisicas y justificar claramente la demanda por el curso propuesto. Los beneficiarios o



Annex 12
Page 5 of 10
las instituciones patrocinadoras aportaran el 30% durante el primer anto del proyecto, el 40%
durante el segundo, el 50% durante el tercero y el 600%o durante los anios 4 y 5.
El FONDO podri financiar cursos o eventos de capacitaci6n solicitados por grupos de
agricultores o asociaciones gremiales para lo cual se contratari en forma competitiva al
proveedor. Las propuestas presentadas por los proveedores seran evaluadas por la UAP de
acuerdo con los criterios estipulados en el Capitulo IX. Toda solicitud debera presentar un
presupuesto de costos de acuerdo con las Guias emitidas por el FONDO, el cual seri sujeto de
evaluaci6n y revisi6n por parte de la UAP.
ADMIMSTRACION DEL FONDO
La maxima autoridad del FONDO sera el Consejo de Administraci6n compuesto por 7
miembros:
(a) el Director Ejecutivo de la DICTA, quien lo presidira,
(b) un representante del Ministerio de Hacienda,
(c) un representante del sector forestal nombrado por COHDEFOR,
(d) un representante de los Colegios Profesionales Agropecuarios,
(e) un representante de los proveedores de servicios nombrado por CONACTA,
(f) dos representantes de los productores nombrados por CONACTA.
El Consejo de Administraci6n se reunira trimestralmente; si el volumen de solicitudes a
considerar lo requiere, podri tener reuniones extraordinarias.
Las funciones del Consejo de Administraci6n del FONDO son:
(a) Administrar los recursos del FONDO segun los criterios establecidos en este
Reglamento.
(b) Aprobar las solicitudes de financiamiento de proyectos.
(c) Procurar el mantenimiento del FONDO de acuerdo con las necesidades de
financiamiento de las actividades de GTTA en el pais.
(d) Revisar y definir anualmente los parametros de cofinanciamiento de acuerdo con los
objetivos del FONDO y los requerimientos y estrategias del sector y el desempento de
los proyectos.



Annex 12
Page 6 of 10
Las operaciones del FONDO estarin a cargo del Administrador del FONDO quien sera
nombrado por el Consejo, dependeri directamente del Consejo, tendra a su cargo la supervisi6n
de las unidades de apoyo tecnico y administrativo y actuari como Secretario del Consejo de
Administraci6n del FONDO. En ausencia del establecimiento formal del FONDO como una
entidad independiente, estas funciones seran ejecutadas por la "Secretaria del FONDO", una
unidad a ser establecida en DICTA.
Las funciones del Administrador del FONDO son:
(a) Supervisar la Unidad Tecnica y la Unidad Administrativa del FONDO.
(b) Manejar, de acuerdo con las normas y procedimientos establecidos en este Reglamento
y las orientaciones del Consejo de Administraci6n, los recursos del FONDO.
(c) Ejecutar las instrucciones del Consejo de Administraci6n.
(d) Mantener actualizados los manuales de funciones, politicas y procedimientos del
FONDO y las Guias para la Presentaci6n de Solicitudes de Financiamiento.
(e) Preparar la agenda para las reuniones mensuales del Consejo de Administraci6n.
(f) Coordinar con la UAP el flujo adecuado de solicitudes de financiamiento y las
actividades de supervisi6n.
La DICTA contratari a una empresa privada para operar la Unidad Administradora de
Proyectos del FONDO (UAP). El operador de esta unidad sera una empresa privada, nacional o
intemacional, debidamente calificada. Sus funciones principales seran:
(a) evaluar, de acuerdo con las normas y criterios establecidos en este Reglamento y con
las instrucciones del Consejo de Administraci6n del FONDO, las solicitudes de
financiamiento de proyectos que presenten los solicitantes elegibles.
(b) supervisar los proyectos en ejecuci6n y aprobar, de acuerdo con las condiciones
establecidas en los contratos, los desembolsos a los proveedores de servicios.
(c) preparar informes trimestrales de su gesti6n de acuerdo con los instructivos del
Consejo de Administraci6n.
La compensaci6n por los servicios de la UAP estari compuesta por: (a) servicios de
evaluaci6n de solicitudes; y, (b) supervisi6n de proyectos. Esta compensaci6n estara definida en el
contrato que la empresa operadora de la UAP suscriba con DICTA. La UAP no podra cobrar
cargos ni comisiones de ninguna clase fuera de los estipulados en ese contrato. La empresa
operadora de la UAP no podra participar en ninguna actividad adicional relacionada directa o
indirectamente con el programa de financiamiento de proyectos del FONDO.



Annex 12
Page 7 of 10
El FONDO estableceri y mantendra una cuenta en un banco comercial, con los recursos
asignados por el Gobiemo. Estos recursos seran utilizados exclusivamente para: (a) el
financiamiento de proyectos aprobados por el Consejo de Administraci6n; (b) los gastos opera-
tivos del FONDO; y (c) financiar el costo de las actividades de evaluaci6n ejecutadas por la
Unidad Administradora de Proyectos. Los costos de supervisi6n seran incluidos en el presupuesto
de cada proyecto. Anualmente el Consejo de Administraci6n debera presentar el presupuesto de
gastos para el siguiente afno fiscal de acuerdo con las categorias estipuladas en el numeral 7.10.
Anualmente, el Consejo de Administraci6n programara los recursos a ser asignados trimes-
tralmente al financiamiento de proyectos.
PRESENTACION DE SOLICITUDES
Las solicitudes de financiamiento seran preparadas de acuerdo con las Gutaspara la
Presentaci6n de Solicitudes de Financiamiento suministradas por el FONDO. Las solicitudes
deberan ser presentadas al Administrador del FONDO para el Financiamiento de Proyectos de
GTTA. La UAP establecera los mecanismos apropiados para facilitar la entrega de solicitudes en
las regiones. Las solicitudes de financiamiento deberan describir en forma detallada los objetivos
especificos del proyecto en trnminos de su impacto sobre la productividad y eficiencia a nivel de
finca. Las solicitudes deberan establecer metas cuantificables y verificables, relacionadas
directamente con los objetivos propuestos, cuyo cumplimiento sera condici6n para continuar el
financiamiento despues del primer afio. El Administrador del FONDO registrara las solicitudes
presentadas y las enviara a la UAP para su evaluaci6n, a mas tardar dos dias habiles despues de su
presentaci6n.
EVALUACION DE SOLICITUDES
La evaluaci6n de las solicitudes de financiamiento de proyectos de GTTA estarA a cargo
de la UAP. La UAP debera informar al solicitante, a mas tardar 5 dias habiles despues de recibida
la solicitud si esta no es aceptable o elegible para evaluaci6n detallando las razones o la
informaci6n faltante segun el caso.
Criterios de elegibildad. Para que una solicitud sea sujeto de evaluacion fornal por
parte de la UAP debera cumplir con las siguientes condiciones: (a) presentar la documentaci6n
completa requerida por la Guias para la Presentaci6n de Solicitudes; y (b) cumplir con los
criterios establecidos en los Capitulos I, H, m, IV y V.
Una vez aceptadas las solicitudes elegibles para evaluaci6n, la UCP tendra un plazo de 30
dias para presentar un dictamen al Administrador del FONDO. Este dictamen concluira con una
recomendaci6n para financiar, rechazar o reformular la solicitud, junto con un resumen de las
razones que ameritan su recomendacion de aprobaci6n, rechazo o reformulaci6n. Las solicitudes
de financiamiento seran evaluadas por un comite evaluador asignado por la UAP, compuesto por
tres personas quienes podran obtener opiniones de expertos especializados en los temas
especificos del proyecto propuesto segun el caso. Cada solicitud sera evaluada con relaci6n a los
criterios y puntajes establecidos en el numeral 9.5.



Annex 12
Page 8 of 10
Criterios de evaluaci6n. La UAP, en la evaluaci6n de las solicitudes de financiamiento,
aplicara los siguientes criterios:
Viabilidad tecnica
Viabilidad ambiental
Viabilidad econ6mica
Institucional (Capacidad del proveedor: tecnica, logistica y financiera)
Prioridades del Programa
Estos criterios seran aplicados de acuerdo con los puntajes definidos en el Apendice A.
Los metodos y procedimientos para operacionalizar estos criterios seran presentados en las Guias
para la Preparaci6n de Solicitudes de Financiamiento. La UAP se responsabilizara por la
calidad tecnica de la evaluaci6n y la integridad del proceso. El dictamen de la UAP seri revisado
por la Secretaria del FONDO con el fin de verificar que se hayan cumplido los procedimientosy
criterios de evaluaci6n. La Secretaria debera dar su aprobaci6n o rechazo al dictamen a mas
tardar 3 dias habiles despues de su presentaci6n.
APROBACION DE SOLICITUDES
El dictamen presentado por la UAP recomendando la aprobaci6n de una solicitud,
revisado por la Secretaria del FONDO, debera ser entregado al Administrador del FONDO para
su inclusi6n en la proxima reuni6n del Consejo de Administraci6n. El dictamen presentado al
Consejo de Administraci6n incluira el proyecto de contrato entre el solicitante como proveedor de
servicios, el FONDO y el beneficiario, segun el caso. Este incluira el cronograma de desembolsos
los cuales se haran efectivos de acuerdo con los procedimientos estipulados en el Capitulo XI.
Criterios de selecci6n. El Consejo de Administraci6n del FONDO podra rechazar o
posponer la aprobaci6n de solicitudes recomendadas por la UAP cuando no exista disponibilidad
de fondos en una vigencia trimestral para financiar todos los proyectos recomendados. Los
proyectos aprobados se seleccionaran de acuerdo con el puntaje respectivo definido en el numeral
9.5 y Apendice B. El Consejo de Administraci6n podra incorporar criterios geograficos en el
proceso de selecci6n cuando lo considere esencial para complementar otras acciones especificas
en areas determinadas.
DESEMBOLSOS
El FONDO, segun las estipulaciones de cada contrato, dara un anticipo de acuerdo con los
requerimientos financieros del proyecto correspondiente. Para los demas desembolsos se
requerira un informe de supervisi6n emitido por la UAP, segun lineamientos emitidos por el
FONDO. Este informe debera incluir la certificaci6n, opiniones y recomendaciones de los
productores beneficiarios en el caso de proyectos de transferencia de tecnologia, de los tecnicos
capacitados en el caso de los proyectos de capacitaci6n y del panel supervisor en el caso de los
proyectos de generaci6n de tecnologia.



Annex 12
Page 9 of 10
Por autorizaci6n del Consejo de Administraci6n, los desembolsos serin firmados
conjuntamente por el Administrador del FONDO y el Contador Pblico del FONDO. Los
desembolsos seran autorizados por el Consejo de Administraci6n para el periodo de
financiamiento del proyecto (1 anlo). El Administrador del FONDO sera responsable por la
ejecuci6n apropiada de estos.
EJECUCION
Durante la ejecuci6n, el beneficiario presentara a la UAP los informes mensuales de
progreso acordados en el contrato, y colaborara con dicha unidad en el proceso de supervisi6n de
acuerdo con lo estipulado en el Capitulo XIII. La UAP, a su vez, coordinarA con la DICTA los
asuntos relacionados con el seguimiento del programa.
SUPERVISION
La supervisi6n de los proyectos sera responsabilidad de la Unidad Administradora de
Proyectos del FONDO (UAP). El contrato con el beneficario y proveedor debera hacer explicita
la forma de supervisi6n y la obligaci6n de cooperar con la UAP en dicha supervisi6n. La UAP
presentara al Consejo de Administraci6n del FONDO y a la DICTA un informe semestral de
progreso de los proyectos en ejecuci6n.
La UAP realizara visitas de campo peri6dicas para verificar los informes mensuales
presentados por el beneficiario. Los informes mensuales deberan ser breves pero sustantivos e
incluiran, en lo posible, indicadores de alcance de los objetivos finales del proyecto en relaci6n
con el nivel de esfuerzo asignado. Para los proyectos de capacitaci6n de tecnicos se requerira una
evaluaci6n de los beneficiarios al final del curso respectivo. Esta evaluaci6n sera ejecutada por la
UAP durante la filtima sesi6n de cada curso o evento y formara parte de la supervisi6n formal de
los proyectos de capacitaci6n. Para proyectos de generaci6n de tecnologia se requerira la opini6n
de un panel de expertos en el tema quienes revisaran y daran su opini6n sobre los informes
acordados. Representantes de la DICTA, el FONDO y el BID podran realizar visitas especiales
de inspecci6n a cualquier proyecto o actividad financiado con recursos del FONDO para lo cual la
UAP y el beneficiario prestaran la cooperaci6n requerida. Los costos de supervisi6n seran
incluidos en el presupuesto de cada proyecto individualmente y no seran mayores del 5% del
costo total del proyecto.
EVALUACION DEL FONDO Y MODIFICACION DEL REGLAMENTO
Anualmente, el Consejo de Administraci6n presentara un informe de progreso a la
Secretaria de Recursos Naturales, al Ministerio de Hacienda, al SNITTA a traves del Consejo
Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia Agropecuaria (CONACTA) y al BID sobre los logros y
problemas del programa, y las modificaciones recomendadas a este Reglamento. Las prioridades
para el financiamiento de proyectos de generaci6n y transferencia seran ajustadas de acuerdo con
los resultados y recomendaciones del Plan Nacional de Generaci6n y Transferencia de Tecnologia
que debera ser aprobado por el CONACTA.



Annex 12
Page 10 of 10
El Consejo de Administraci6n del FONDO, anualmente, podra modificar los parametros
de cofinanciamiento con base en los siguientes elementos: recomendaciones del Plan Nacional de
GTTA, cambios en la demanda de servicios de GTTA, disponibilidad de recursos, resultados de
los proyectos financiados. Cualquier modificaci6n de este reglamento debera contar con la
aprobaci6n de la DICTA, la SRN y el BID de acuerdo con las clausulas respectivas del contrato
de prestamo entre el Gobiemo de Honduras y el BID.



Annex J
HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
1.    Legal Framework: (a) Agricultural Modernization Law, Decree 31-92 and
Regulations to Forestry Aspects of the Law, Acuerdo 1039-93; (b) Municipal Laws,
Decree 134-90 and Decree 48-91; (c) General Environmental Law, Decree 104-93 and
its regulations, Acuerdo 109-93; (d) Forestry Law, Decree 83 of November 18, 1971,
the Law for the Honduran Forest Development Corporation (COHDEFOR), Decree
103-74, and the General Forestry Regulations, Acuerdo 634-84; (e) the Law for
Incentives for Reforestation, Afforestation, and Forest Protection, Decree 163-93;
(f) the Regulation of Article 39 of the Agrarian Reform Law, Acuerdo 322-92, and the
Registry Law, Decree 171-75; and (g) the Agricultural Plan for Rural Development,
Acuerdo 2- 95 (PROAGRO) and the Regulation of DICTA for the Agricultural
Modernization Law, Acuerdo 2064-93.
2.    Annex containing the Plan Agricolapara el Desarrollo del Campo (PROAGRO) and
the Functions of DICTA, CONACTA, and SNITTA.
3.    Project Brief, IDB, for proposed Agricultural Technology Project and Component
Summary for DICTA Component for Agriculture Technology Generation and Transfer,
Working Papers for preparation of Agriculture Technology Component to be financed
by IDB as a complement to World Bank project (both in Spanish).
4.    Plan de Acci6n: Programa Nacional de Descentralization y Desarrollo Municipal,
Comisi6n Ejecutivapara la Descentralizaci6n del Estado, Unidad Tecnica,
Tegucigalpa.
5.    Working document of DICTA regulating agricultural extension and research system.
6.    Tom Korczowski, Modernization of the Land Administration and Registry
System, Background Working Paper prepared for project preparation (in Spanish).
7.    Biodiversity Conservation Project (GE-44343-HO) Project Brief
8.    Report in Spanish of Comisi6n Interinstitucional on the Land Administration
Component
9.    PRODEPAH Project summary of forestry development prospects prepared for MAG.
10.   Detailed Economic and Financial Analysis; Farm Models
11.   PIP (in Spanish).
12.   Operational Manual (in Spanish).



18RD 28163
B BELIZE                                                                                                                                                                        HONDURAS
LAND USE AND
-!                                                                   LA BAHIA                                                                         PROJECT AREA BOUNDARY
16                                                                                                                                                                                  0      2       0     75    10  6.1-
C""                                                                               0          25          5D          75 WI. 
GUATEMALA                          CQT
4 
COPA                        OMYGL0>3~~                                     3
~fl                     .                  ; --, ';y    _ '    - WETLAND USE:
-4                     ~~~~~~~~PINE, OAK FORESTS
j4S  *.O*>'.*_.    4NZ    IA  CIGA RA  G LP~~&~'<  U           APBROADLEAF
t~~~   ~~~                                                                                                                                         -~~~~          Mop Oo~~2VFh,i -p U,-d bf TI..W,
MANGROVE                                               TI.b-od-n. ooi-d-no.npo,
E ~    ~         ~         ~        \i                                                                                         NAINLCPTL SALVA O                             Aoyoh nonooR'i.oo
EL SALVADOR                                            . ....                                          ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURE                     An.pd  ti* -n lb. Wp. O
Th. --d MAE G,. ony
I ~~~~~~~~~~4PASTURE                                                                                                        d'~Y.-t-V*-R
7] WETLANDSI
~~~~4~~~~~%HOdJTECAJ                                  ___                                         18                                         '3.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~18  ---  JMI'''
PROJECT AREA BOUNDARY             MEXIC_~    CBELIZE                      JAMAIC
PROTECTED AREAS                      GUATEMALA MCr A 
y~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                 ~        ~~~~~~~~ ~~~                 ~~ I C    RA     U' AC  36-  37OLMI
EL'--
 NATIONAL CAPITAL                           SALVADOR     RGU
RIVERS
- --DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES               0                      COSTA RICA           To.-
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
PANAMA
'  go.                                                                           R3         M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  go.~~~~~~~~~~~2  COLOMBIA
OCTOER 1996






I



IMAGING
Report No.:         15917   HO
Type:     SAR
I



