                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                          Report No: 30234

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (IDA-29400 IDA-29401 PPFI-P9360)

                                            ON

                                         CREDITS

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 42.3 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                                        HONDURAS

                                          FOR A

                          RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                      October 14, 2004




Environmenmentally and Socially Sustainable Sector Management Unit (LCSES)
Central America Country Management Unit (LCC2C)
Latin America and the Caribbean Region (LCR)

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2004)

                        Currency Unit = Lempira
                                 17.81 = US$ 1
                                 US$ 1 = SDR 0.670

                               FISCAL YEAR
                        Jannuary 1      December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFE-COHDEFOR     State Forestry Administration-Honduran Forestry Development Corporation
AML              Agricultural Modernization Law
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CIEF             Center for Forestry Information and Statistics
CMAT             Land Administration Modernization Component
DICTA            Directorate of Agricultural Science and Technology
GEF              Global Environmental Facility
GIS              Geographic Information System
GOH              Government of Honduras
GPS              Geographic Positioning System
DAPVS            Protected Areas and Wildlife Department (AFE-COHDEFOR)
DICTA            Directorate for Agricultural Science and Technology Transfer
FHIS             Honduran Fund for Social Investment
FONAC            National Convergence Fund
FONADERS         National Fund for Rural Development
FPL              Fund for Upland Producers
IDA              International Development Association
INA              National Agrarian Institute
MOF              Ministry of Finance
MTR              Mid Term Report
NGO              Non Governmental Organizations
PAAR             Rural Land Management Project
PAD              Project Appraisal Document
PATH             Land Administration Project
PCU              Project Coordination Unit
PROBAP           GEF Honduran Biodiversity Project
PRSP             Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PST              Private Service Provider
PSR              Project Status Report
PBPR             Forestry and Rural Productivity Project
RRNN             Natural Resource Management Component
SAG              Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
SINAP            National Property Administration System
SINAPH           National System of Protected Areas of Honduras
SINREC                    Integrated System of Registration and Cadastre
SINIT            National System of Territorial Information
SURE             Unified Registries System


                      Vice President:        David de Ferranti

              Country Director   Jane Armitage
                Sector Director  John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   James Smyle

                                         HONDURAS
                               Rural Land Management Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            37

Project ID: P007398                                                  Project Name: Rural Land Management Project
Team Leader: James W. Smyle                                          TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 14, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Rural Land Management Project                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-29400; IDA-29401;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P9360
   Country/Department: HONDURAS                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (86%); General
                            public administration sector (14%)
                  Theme: Land management (P); Rural policies and institutions (P); Other
                            environment and natural resources management (S); Other rural
                            development (S); Biodiversity (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/30/1995                                     Effective: 09/08/1997                12/22/1997
     Appraisal: 12/12/1996                                         MTR: 12/30/2001                  07/09/2000
      Approval: 03/20/1997                                      Closing: 01/31/2003                 01/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF HONDURAS/SECRETARIAT OF AGRICULTURE AND
                                           LIVESTOCK
                      Other Partners:      State Forestry Administration - Honduran Forestry Development Cooperation
                                           (AFE-COHDEFOR), Direction of Science and Technology for Agriculture
                                           (DICTA)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:                John Redwood                                   Michael Baxter
Team Leader at ICR:             James W. Smyle                                 Augusta Molnar
ICR Primary Author:             Takayuki Hagiwara (FAO/CP);
                                Ricardo Uberti (FAO/CP);
                                Suzanne Raswant (FAO/CP)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S

                      Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the project was to improve management of natural resources and to increase productivity of the
agriculture and forestry sectors in rural areas while at the same time reinforcing environmental protection.
Specifically, the project was designed to: (a) modernize the system of rural land registration, laying a foundation
for more effective land titling; (b) strengthen the forest administration of AFE-COHDEFOR in its new normative
role and promote participation of local populations in managing their natural resources; (c) improve agriculture
and forestry practices in upland farms in order to stabilize income and thereby decrease forest encroachment; and
(d) rationalize the national protected areas system, putting representative areas of the nation's ecosystem under
management for their conservation.

The project objective attempted to address the following key problems: (a) limited access of poor upland farmers
and forest producers in marginal areas to improved technology and extension; (b) the county's antiquated system of
registering and titling forest and agricultural land and its lack of a parcel-based record system; (c) conflicting
claims to land title between small-scale farmers, agrarian reform enterprises, indigenous groups and farmers
engaged in community forestry; (d) the weak institutional capacity of INA, DEC, AFE-COHDEFOR and DICTA
for management and conservation of forest and land resources; and (e) the lack of systematic land use planning.

The objectives were in line with the priorities of the Government of Honduras (GOH) and the Bank's country
assistance strategy (CAS), as well as with the sector assistance strategy, all of which regarded as primary priorities
poverty alleviation, public sector modernization and sustainable environmental and natural resource management.
The project also addressed some of Honduras' most important development problems: rural poverty, land tenure,
deforestation and destruction of bio-diversity. In addition, this project tried to consolidate the Agricultural
Modernization Law (AML) of 1992, which was supported by both the IDA (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit:
AGSAC; CR. 2540-HO) and the IDB, and to maintain the momentum of the restructuring processes by providing
investment resources, by fostering greater integration of social and environmental concerns into forest and upland
management, as well as by improving technical soundness through consideration of lessons learned from earlier
experiences.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objective was appropriate and was not revised during the project implementation. It is noted, however,
that the annex to the project Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) containing the project's Performance Monitoring
Indicators (Annex G) stated the project objectives in terms slightly different than those in the main SAR text,
although the substance was not changed. The objectives as phrased in Annex G of the SAR were as follows: (i)
strengthen the technical and administrative capacity of AFE-CODEFOR at the central, regional, and local levels in
order to plan, execute and supervise forestry management (corresponding to (b) of the original objective); (ii) bring
significant areas of national forest under sustainable management and increase outputs and environmental
functions of the forest resource base (corresponding to (b) of the original objective); (iii) strengthen the protected
areas system in Honduras with improved infrastructure, self-financing mechanisms, clear demarcation of area
boundaries and improved training for staff (corresponding to (d) of the original objective); (iv) channel technical
assistance and research funds to upland producers and NGOs as well as to producer or community organizations
with experience in innovative technology transfer programs (corresponding to (c) of the original objective); and (v)
pilot and evaluate a viable system for land administration based on an integrated parcel-based legal and physical
information base (folio real legal) (corresponding to (a) of the original objective).

3.3 Original Components:
The project included the following two components: (i) Land Administration Modernization (CMAT); and (ii)
Natural Resources Management (RRNN). Under the CMAT, two sub-components were designed: (a) Phase 1
(pilot); and (b) Phase 2 (expansion). The RRNN included three sub-components: (a) Forest Management; (b) Fund
for Upland Producers; and (c) Biodiversity Conservation.




                                                           - 2 -

The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was created as subordinate to the Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock
(SAG); the PCU held the overall management responsibility of the project. The PCU was established as an
autonomous agency in order to facilitate channeling of resources and to allow it to operate free of government
administrative regulations and salary constraints. This was done in consideration of the lessons learned from the
Bank's previous projects in the country. AFE- COHDEFOR was assigned as the main counterpart institution for
forest management, which was one of the main activities of the RRNN. It is important to note that
AFE-COHDEFOR was under restructuring directed by the AML and the project aimed to support the restructuring
process and to reinforce its institutional capacity.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project's two main components were maintained as foreseen in the SAR. A few months after Hurricane
Mitch, in support of the country's emergency reconstruction efforts, US$4.1 million of the credit was reallocated to
an "Emergency Infrastructure" component that was to design and supervise investments in the Sula Valley, located
in the Department of Cortés. The activities included in the amendment were to reconstruct levees in northern
Honduras' highly populated flood plains, thus preventing flood damage during the next rainy season. Also, in
response to the disaster caused by Hurricane Mitch, a stronger emphasis was placed on developing forest
management activities with municipalities for community groups in order to generate temporary employment and
enhance community commitment to resource protection. Emergency food supplies were provided in order to meet
short-term food shortages and seeds distributed to upland producers in order to avoid subsequent food crises. A
total of US$8.3 million of incremental expenditures were incurred as the direct result of the changes introduced
into the Project in order to respond to the disaster left by Hurricane Mitch and to redo cadastral surveys and work
on the geodesic grid, and to retake aerial photography in Mitch-affected areas. Because of these incremental
expenditures, in July of 2001 a supplemental credit of US$8.3 million was approved by IDA in order to ensure that
Mitch-incurred expenses would not result in a financial shortfall and prejudice the project's ability to achieve its'
original development objectives.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The project objective was consistent with the GOH's development
plan and the Bank's CAS in Honduras. Project design incorporated valuable experiences and lessons learned form
other Bank-financed projects and previous experiences in LAC region. The SAR and the appraisal team explicitly
acknowledged the complexity of the project, as well as paying a great deal of attention to institutional
arrangements. However, less consideration was given to the technical appraisal and pre-existing data for the
CMAT. This was partly due to lack of local-technical expertise of the preparation team who had dealt with the
Honduran registry and cadastral systems, and had experience in advanced infor- mation systems such as GPS and
GIS. The appraisal team could not precisely predict the accuracy of the existing data and unit costs; this led to an
over-ambitious physical target for this component.

An initial assessment team from the World Bank's Quality Assistance Group found the "Quality at Entry" of the
project to be satisfactory1. Peer reviewers and Bank decision-makers endorsed the project design and objectives,
which were consistent with the CAS. The team also found that the project addressed Honduras' most important
development problems and made use of the Bank's comparative advantage in the development business through its
technical and policy analysis capacity. However, the assessment team stated that the project was risky, and the risk
was not fully exposed in the appraisal report (after receiving this assessment, the SAR explicitly analyzed the risks
and identified three major risks: (a) complexity; (b) Government commitment; and (c) institutional capacity. It
recommended that the Bank be ready to put significant supervision resources into this project, to be prepared for
the inevitable problems that were bound to emerge at the various stages in the development of the project and to
accept implementation delays. Furthermore, it recommended that a precise supervision plan and better defined
monitoring indicators, which would facilitate possible decisions about project (or component) re-design or exit,
were absolutely necessary and would be critical factors for the project. Despite the foreseen risks, the view of the
assessment team was that the Bank should take on the risks and support the project.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs



                                                           - 3 -

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project is rated as "satisfactory", though it is noted that Government has rated the project as "highly
satisfactory".

Despite serious delays due to Hurricane Mitch, the project activities were successfully implemented and their
outcomes were highly positive for the country. The project had a very positive impact on sector policies and
institutions, as well on the technical capacity of its target population.

In pursuit of its objectives, the project adopted an innovative pilot approach that required flexible and
demand-driven management. The project was noteworthy for its focus on quality rather than on simply
quantitative targets. Its emphasis was on learning by doing and by examining different methodologies. As a result
of its innovative and flexible approach, the project was able to provide important development platforms for the
next decade of the development of the country in land administration and natural resource management. At the
completion of the project, two new IDA projects, based on the PAAR's main components - Land Administration
Project (PATH, Project ID: P055991), and Forests and Rural Productivity Project (PBPR, Project ID: P064914)
were created.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Land Administration Modernization Component (CMAT)
The CMAT had a substantial development impact on land administration and became one of the most important
development instruments of the country. Among the main achievements, this component was successful in: (i)
creating a web-based folio-real, the Unified Registries System (SURE), which is currently regarded as an
international best practice2; (ii) making possible the passage of two new laws: the Property Law and the Territorial
Management Law; (iii) providing normative guidelines for the national cadastre and registry; (iv) establishing
effective methods for the regularization of land tenure (the methodology includes the capture of field information,
juridical investigation, conflict resolution and titling); (v) supporting the creation of the Integrated System of
Registration and Cadastre (SINREC), which is composed of the Presidency and the Supreme Court, and is chaired
by the head of National Convergence Fund (FONA) with the PAAR's PCU as the technical secretariat; (vi)
demonstrating the importance of creating an integrated national property agency: Instituto de Propiedad (Property
Institute); (vii) ensuring government's full commitment to this project objective by highlighting it as a high
priority in the PRSP and the 2002 ­ 2007 Government Plan; (viii) supporting decentralization of land
administration and strengthening municipalities by providing training and the new computerized system; and (ix)
establishing a mechanism of tenure security for the poor. During the last CAS discussion, the GOH explicitly
requested IDA to create a project using the results of this component as a high priority item. PATH was
established as a result of the success of this component.

In addition, this component was successful in demarcating and titling some 27,500 ha of indigenous lands to 13
communities of Tolupanes. It has been commended as a best-case example in participatory demarcation in a recent
IDA review (Indigenous Peoples Development Plans - Thematic Review. 2002. LCR QAT). The CMAT also
demonstrated its effectiveness in natural resource management through implementation of the modernized system
of rural land registration in forest cadastres for five public forest management blocks and through support to
demarcation, delimitation, tenure diagnostics, and preliminary development of conservation easements when a
public roads program found that it was planning improvements to a road running through the last known habitat of
an endangered hummingbird, found only in Honduras (the "Colibri Esmeralda").

A total 47,574 ha of land in the Department of Comayagua is now registered in the new computerized parcel-based
property registry system (folio real), with 145,000 parcels. This system is innovative in providing an instrument
for land-conflict management. The project was also successful in demarcating municipal, as well as urban and
rural boundaries (institutional jurisdiction: municipalities for urban area and INA for rural area). The Ministry of
Governance and Justice have certified 96% of the boundaries of the Department of Comayagua. Comayagua is the
first department that has received certification by the ministry and has reached agreement on resolution of
boundary disputes among the 21 municipalities.




                                                            - 4 -

The GOH considers the technically competent PCU to be the leader in the sectors of property rights, land tenure
and regional planning. The PCU actively participated in the elaboration of the drafts of the Territorial
Management Law, the General Water Law, and the Forestry Law. In addition, CMAT has developed the National
System of Territorial Information (SINIT), as an instrument for the support of territorial planning and
management, in which eight institutions of the government have participated.

4.2.2 Natural Resources Management Component (RRNN)
Although the RRNN also faced some delays after hurricane Mitch, this component progressed steadily at a
satisfactory level and completed most of the physical targets identified in the SAR. The main beneficiaries of this
component were AFE-COHDEFOR, municipalities and communities of upland farmers. The project had good
success in increasing technical effectiveness of public forest management through the introduction of lower cost
and more efficient and effective means of public pine forest management that outsourced forest management
planning to private firms and forest management activities to communities and local groups, by supporting the
decentralization of management processes, and by increasing transparency and civil society participation in the
development and execution of public forest management plans. The project also initiated approaches for
strengthening the participation of local populations in direct management of the public forestlands in which they
reside. Due to the complexities of forestland tenure, the as-yet-limited institutional capacity to promote and
facilitate community forestry and the limited market opportunities (among others), the development of community
forestry as a fully viable option will require more time and concerted effort. Having developed new approaches for
involvement of municipalities and local populations in the forest management planning process, the project in its
last year began to apply these approaches increasingly in land use, development and forestry in order to promote
greater community participation. The results with respect to changing the land-use pattern among farmers and
upland communities are mixed. Here as well, more time and effort will be required in order to bring about
significant improvements in land-use among the targeted poor. These aspects are taken into account in the follow
on Forests and Rural Productivity Project (PBPR).

4.2.2.1 Natural Forest Management Sub-Component
There were two main objectives of this sub-component: one was to reinforce the technical and administrative
capacity of AFE-COHDEFOR at the central, regional, and local levels in order to plan, execute and supervise
forestry management of eleven forest management blocks (unidad de gestión forestal); and the second, to support
AFE-COHDEHOR's overall program of decentralization and increase transparency and community participation
in forest management. On completion, the project had created nine forest master plans for nine forest management
blocks that cover a total of 560,073 ha of public forestland. Currently, seven of the plans are under implementation
and 295,000m3 of logs were sold through public auctions.

The project also contributed to constructing and/or rehabilitating three regional offices and eleven field offices for
AFE-COHDEFOR; providing vehicles and geographic information systems as well. In addition, the project carried
out forty-one training sessions for AFE-COHDEFOR field technicians and 270 public workshops. The major focus
of public involvement was the prevention of forest fires. The project was successful in reducing forest-fire
incidents (in the Department of Yoro: from 385 cases in 1997 to 63 in 2001) by raising public concern and
designing contracts with municipalities in order to prevent forest fires, as well as developing effective methods of
forest fire prevention. Fire control proved to be effective in protecting natural regeneration of tree seedlings and at
the same time, in increasing a stand's volume with shorter intervals of cutting cycles. Furthermore, by employing
a selective logging silvicultural method that aimed to maintain seed trees for the natural regeneration period, the
project promoted appropriate stand density control which has increased tree growth and reduced cutting cycles.
This has all been made possible by having master plans that contain a stand's stock assessments and that
encourage plan-based management. Unfortunately, many of these successes remain to be institutionalized and the
capacity created within AFE-COHDEFOR to continue to systematically apply these. This is due, among others to
the problems described in Section 5.2 and to the as yet-pending institutional and legal reforms required in the
sector in order to provide a basis for a functional state forest agency.

The project has contributed to the still on-going restructuring processes of AFE-COHDEFOR. The institutional
strengthening activities created new learning, approaches and a framework that is serving as a basis for many of



                                                           - 5 -

the significant AFE-COHDEFOR reforms being undertaken by the current government. The project also supported
public consultations with forest sector stakeholders on both forest policy and in the development and revision of the
new Forestry Law currently in the Congress for approval.

The project faced great challenges in developing approaches to incorporate the rural poor living in, but without
legal access to, public forests. At the outset, the boundaries of the public forestlands were unknown and it required
a significant amount of time and resources to delimit public forest lands and to develop and implement the
socio-economic diagnostics and surveys necessary to identify the households dwelling in and using public forest-
lands and to understand their uses and livelihood systems that depended on access to those lands. Efforts to
incorporate local populations into forest management were thus primarily pilots and learning activities that took
the form of outsourcing of forest management activities to community groups to generate employment (e.g.,
establish- ment and maintenance of fire lines, forest road maintenance), pilot incorporation of forest dwelling
households into forest management plans, structured learning subprojects (through the Fund For Upland
Producers) for community forestry and titling of forest lands to indigenous communities (Tolupanes). Through the
project itself significant changes in overall participation of the poor in natural forest management did not occur,
however, a strong experiential base was developed that GOH plans on replicating and expanding upon as part of
the implementation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS). The PRS identifies forestry as a priority sector and
proposes to apply the approaches to regularization of forestland tenure, community forestry and public forest
management developed through the PAAR.

It is questionable if AFE-COHDEFOR's Center For Forest Information and Statistics will be able to continue to
update the data that became available with the project, since the cost to maintain such data is relatively high and
work was a yet ongoing to transfer the know-how to maintain the data to the institution. Thus, actions taken in the
last year of the project to link the forest information systems into the national land information system framework
and to jointly manage and maintain the information base with the National Forestry School were important steps
toward sustaining the project gains.

The strong focus on community forestry and the institutional sustainability of the forest information system, among
others, are welcome elements in the follow on Forests and Rural Productivity Project and reflect the lessons
learned.

4.2.2.2 Fund for Upland Producers
Upon completion, the project covered a total of 9,814 families in the three Departments. This significantly exceeds
the target of 6,500 families specified by the SAR. The importance of this achievement can be seen not only in the
quantitative outputs, but also in the extension mechanism that the project developed and employed. The project
was successful in establishing an outsourcing extension mechanism whereby the government could contract with
private extension service providers in order to execute agricultural extension programs for poor upland farmers in
public forestlands. The main objective of this outsourcing extension mechanism was to promote effective, efficient
and transparent implementation of extension services for farmers with whom the GOH had not traditionally
worked as GOH's economic priority had been to provide services to those farmers with most potential, i.e., those
who had agricultural lands in the plains.

These private service providers were mostly local NGOs and private companies. The project selected companies
directly through interview and review of the competing entities. After the selection, the project had the providers
sign contracts. The project then provided training to extension workers who were employed by the providers. A
total of 111 training courses were held and 2,598 (2,195 male and 403 female) participants were trained by the
project.

The most important aspect was the system of evaluation. The project was successful in creating an innovative
evaluation system whereby the project was able to monitor the results of extension activities and to feed back the
project and farmers' evaluations to the providers. When the providers failed to meet the required outputs, the
providers were responsible for completing the requirements. This ensured that target farmers received
standardized services from the providers and in so doing, increased farmers' confidence in the project.




                                                          - 6 -

Many providers had little experience in other than agricultural extension in more favorable lowland environments
as well as very limited experience in community development and organization. This required the project to focus
a significant amount of its training resources on orientation and transfer of basic knowledge to the providers' field
extensionists. Also, the more difficult working conditions found in the project's target communities (remoteness,
difficulty of access, lack of facilities, etc.) and lack of financial compensation for these led often to problems with
too-frequent turnover of extension workers and lack of continuity in the provision of extension services by the same
extension workers. In addition, through its workshops and training in target communities, the project tended to
focus more on technical and gender aspects than on broader community development and organization, which were
outside the narrower objectives being pursued of developing, validating and implementing a mechanism to finance
the private provision of technical assistance, training and extension services to households of rural poor below the
subsistence level and lacking household food security. Given the successful establishment of the mechanism
through the PAAR, the follow on PBPR project is expected to now strengthen the focus on organization and
community-based participatory planning in pursuit of broader impacts on overall community development.

4.2.2.3 Biodiversity Conservation
Most of the activities foreseen by this sub-component of biodiversity conservation were completed and their
performance has been rated satisfactory. The primary objective of this sub-component was to strengthen existing
SINAPH areas. This sub-component was also designed to complement the GEF Honduran Biodiversity Project
(PROBAP). The main target was to increase the management and execution capacity of the Protected Areas and
Wildlife Department (DAPVS) of AFE-COHDEFOR. The project reinforced 13 units of eight protected areas
within three Departments of Francisco Morazán, Yoro and Olancho.

The project with the PROBAP produced an ecosystem map that covers the whole country using the UNESCO
classification. This was done in order to reinforce the SINAPH and in order to restructure the national protected
areas system through the re-grouping of 107 protected areas. In addition, 14 information centers with office space
and dormitories for park rangers, as well as fourteen park trails were constructed or rehabilitated. Five manage-
ment plans that cover 124,281 ha were prepared. The project was also successful in demarcating eight protected
areas for a total of 251,171 ha. In order to strengthen the personnel capacity of DAPVS, 21 training courses, as
well as 16 seminars and field visits for staff were conducted. Forty workshops were held in order to increase public
awareness; 1,975 persons participated. Local park management committees were established, involving local
stakeholders, in order to enhance civil society participation in the management and conservation of the protected
areas. The project also contributed substantially to the conceptualization, design and national dialogue on
establishing a Fund for Protected Areas to cover the operational costs of basic protected areas management by
non-government entities. This latter has borne fruit with GOH currently committed to passing the enabling
legislation for the fund and making an initial deposit of US$3.5 million.

Together with PROBAP, the project successfully contributed to the discussion on the direction of protected areas
and biodiversity conservation under the new Forestry Law currently in the Congress for approval.

Four eco-tourism attractions planned in the SAR were not constructed although plans were prepared. The aim of
the attractions was to contribute to the sustainability of the SINAPH by establishing self-financing mechanisms. In
order to reinforce the SINAPH and to increase management capacity, GOH and the project considered it more
important to construct the aforementioned information centers rather than the eco-tourism attractions. A
particularly critical area where project impact was minimal was in the strengthening the Department of Protected
Areas and Wildlife (DAPVS). During the life of the project, the minimal political and institutional commitment
and support for the strengthening of the protected areas institutional framework ultimately made efforts to do so
largely unsuccessful.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The PAAR was a pilot project that intended to lay the groundwork for future expansion of investments in land
administration, forest management and public provision of extension services to the rural poor. A principal
outcome of the PAAR experience was the formulation of two subsequent project approved and under
implementation: (i) Land Administration Program (PATH) and Forest and Rural Productivity Project (PBPR). The
relatively high expected returns to from these two projects ­ a 44% ERR for the PATH and up to 25% for


                                                              - 7 -

community forestry in the PBPRs ­ are due in large measure to the groundbreaking work and institutional building
carried out by the PAAR.

The results from the PAAR project are generating a number of important economic benefits, including increase in
land value due to enhanced tenure security and increased productivity in natural resources use (agricultural and
forestry), however the full benefits will only materialize over the next decade. The project also contributed to the
strengthening the institutional capacity at the central and local levels in land administration, the agriculture and
natural resource sectors and for promotion of biodiversity conservation, which are pre-requisites for the successful
implementation of the new projects and Governments continued reforms in land and forestry. The economic
analyses of the project carried out by the Borrower and by the Bank for the formulation of the two follow-on
projects for land administration (PATH) and forestry/agriculture (PBPR) indicate that the project was a good
investment for Honduras. Cost/benefit analyses shows that the project has positive economic impacts. This
assessment confirms the project SAR conclusion that: "50 percent of project investment funds going to directly
productive investment would produce measurable economic returns necessary to justify almost 75 percent of the
total proposed project costs" (see Annex 3).

The Borrower's economic and financial analysis was used, in part in the discussion of the Natural Resources
Management Component. This was agreed with the Borrower beforehand and was reviewed by them afterward,
and found to be satisfactory.

Land Administration Modernization Component (CMAT).                   The main economic benefit is estimated from the
increased property value due to regularization considered as a summary indicator of the capitalized value of three
major benefits associated with land regularization: improved investment and environmental conservation
incentives, marketability, and ability to use land as collateral for loans. Estimates of the direct economic benefits
were derived in two steps. First, the Project's regularization activities resulted in about 72,000 urban housing
properties and 77,000 rural properties (total 149,000 properties) being registered. Second, to use a more updated
value of the incremental value associated with regularization of tenure, the values estimated during the appraisal of
PATH were used. These estimates refer to the whole incremental value of land regularization which will be
accomplished in the coming years; for the economic analysis of PAAR a conservative estimate of only half of the
estimated incremental of the value of smaller properties was considered. The incremental value is expected to be
obtained over a period of 15 years after 2005. Costs of the CMAT and 40% of the cost of UCP are imputed to the
land component. The stream of benefits and costs are discounted to calculate the net present value (10% discount
rate) and internal rate of return. Under these considerations, the NPV of the component is estimated at US$
2,362,000 and the ERR at around 13%.

Natural Resources Management Component.
l   Benefit cost analysis of the productive and natural resource management activities was estimated by the
    Borrower to be 1.7. This figure was calculated based on the actual project costs and the estimated project
    impacts on forest and agricultural production.
l   A detailed analysis of forest management suggested strongly that the model of institutional support and
    development proposed is viable. Under very conservative assumptions the ERR was estimated to be above
    50% with potential changes due to project investment leading to a doubling of the value of national land and
    timber. At full development, up to 18,000 full time jobs are expected to be created through implementing
    forest management plans in the almost 600,000 ha of pine forests brought under management through the
    PAAR.
l   The results of forest management activities were also evaluated individually (see Annex 3). The following
    activities showed very positive benefit-cost ratios; i) tenure and usufruct (determining the location and legal
    situation of national forests); ii) forest planning; iii) forest inventory; iv) promotion and consultation; v) forest
    management; vi) fire prevention and suppression; and vii) forest research (including the support for the
    development of the new forest law).
l   The Fund For Hillside Producers (FPL) had a positive internal rate of return (IRR). IRRs for crop production
    ranged from 25% in Olancho to 35% in Yoro. The net benefits for forestry and livestock activities did not
    apparently generate positive economic returns over the life of the project. For livestock, few project farmers
    maintained livestock and the income from these did not justify the expense. As a pilot, the FPL provided


                                                            - 8 -

     important lessons regarding best practices to obtain positive impacts, these include: micro-irrigation,
     agroforestry (forestry combined with crop production through inter- planting and other technologies), natural
     forest management for (pine) timber and non-timber products, marketing and commercialization linkages,
     and, where possible, value-added production. Based on the experience of the FPL, the analysis shows that for
     an improved menu of subprojects (agroforestry, improved marketing, etc.) the returns are high. For individual
     agro-forestry models, returns ranged from 34% to 41%. Given these (and based on assumptions of differing
     mixes of activities) the ERR for the component is at minimum 20%.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Land Administration Modernization Component (CMAT).                 One of the main financial benefits from the PAAR
was to reduce transaction costs and generate future, consequent savings to the economy from increased efficiency
of service delivery. Because they are intangible, these benefits are not amenable to benefit-cost analysis. While
they can only be measured against an unlikely counterfactual scenario, they are substantial. The PAAR-developed
methods form the basis for GOH's future investments in land administration so the PAAR's land regularization
costs can reasonably be used as an indicator of future regularization costs. The PAAR-generated cost savings in
tenure regularization in the urban context are approximately US$409 per property and in the rural context US$
24.70 per hectare. The total expected cost savings during the next four years from the IDA-financed PATH project
alone (which targets about 30% of the country's real estate property) are on the order of US$ 186 million, against
total costs of about US$25 million.

Fund For Hillside Producers.        The FPL generated significant improvements to family income through
introducing improved practices to traditional production systems. Analysis of the FPL, reported in the Borrower's
draft Implementation Completion Report, estimated that on average households participating in the FPL increased
their incomes by 57%, from $670 per year to $1,050 per year. Analysis of the FPL carried out during the
preparation of the PBPR found:
l    That with reasonable market price expectations (good incomes) and a good adoption rate, the benefit/cost ratio
     was 1.4 (NPV = $1,435/family) and with modest adoption rates the benefit/cost ratio was 1.3 (NPV=$1,098).
l    That for farmers moving from a traditional corn and beans production system to the improved production
     system, returns to labor almost tripled (from L35 per day to L99 per day).
l    The vulnerability of households to market price reductions is demonstrated by the worst case scenario where
     adoption rates are modest and income is reduced by 10% (modest income). Under this scenario, the
     benefit/cost ratio drops below one.
l    The returns from the typical agroforestry models were estimated to range from 34% to 41% with benefit/cost
     ratios from 1.8 to 2.0 and NPVs averaging more than $2,650. Forestry activities such as community usufruct
     contracts in national forests for small-scale logging, firewood, and resin tapping also showed positive results,
     though profitability was strongly influenced by transport costs and any usufruct fees or administration charges
     that might be levied by the State Forest Agency. Under appropriate conditions, returns of over 100% with
     benefit/cost ratios exceeding 1.25 and NPVs averaging $3,700 per participating household are expected.

Thus overall, the project generated positive returns in all components and served to prepare new projects with high
projected ERRs due to the pilot work done under PAAR.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The role of the project in bringing about institutional changes was substantial. The project supported the
restructuring processes, such as the streamlining of AFE-COHDEFOR (from more than 1,000 staff to under 350
within five years). It supported the development of plans for forest management, as well as necessary
infrastructure and essential equipment such as cars and computers. This compensated for the serious reduction in
personnel and helped to increase the efficiency of the institution. While these contributions to AFE-COHDEFOR
were significant, unfortunately the institution itself had a very uneven performance during the project, severely
limiting the possibility of the project to institutionalize its impacts.

The project was successful in supporting dialogues and in providing relevant information and data for the
elaboration of new laws such as the Property Law, the General Water Law and the Territorial Management Law.
The project also laid the groundwork for the new Forestry Law that is currently under consideration in the


                                                            - 9 -

Congress. As a result of the CMAT, GOH passed a new law establishing the Property Institution. SURE, the
web-based cadastre and registry system was established at both central and municipal levels of the GOH and
training provided for those who would be using the system in their daily work.

The outsourcing method for extension was new to Honduras and its impact was mixed. It is clear that it
contributed to development of a private sector extension capacity in upland areas. This mechanism also supported
the restructuring processes of the SAG without reducing support for the poor in remote mountain areas where the
government extension services rarely reached. The project's training courses for extension workers from these
providers as well as the transparent evaluation system also ensured capacity-building and better management
among the extension service providers. The promotion of the appropriate technologies in upland agricultural
landscape allowed participating farmers to initiate producer groups. It has also developed and provided to GOH a
successful model that currently is being utilized as the basis for development of the Secretariat of Agriculture and
Livestock's new program for providing of extension services to small producers. However, once the financing was
terminated, these institutions, including private sector providers and producer groups, faced difficulties in
continuing activities that the project had promoted. In order to ensure sustainability, the follow-on PBPR project
will continue to provide services, and is establishing the links to other sources of funds and supporting the
institutionalization of the approach in order to ensure longer-term sustainability beyond the PBPR project period.

The current PCU under PATH and PBPR is now considered to be the leading technical unit in the sector of
property rights, land tenure, regional planning and natural resource management. Among others, the PCU has
established a multisectoral GIS system which is be used by many ministries and projects to support decision
making and it directly assists the Cabinet by providing information for national planning and policies. The PATH
and PBPR projects, which rely upon the continuation of the PCU, are also supporting its incorporation into the
regular public administration so that its capacity in project administration and expertise in multisectoral planning
and coordination (upon which there is heavy reliance by other government institutions) may be sustained.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The destruction caused by hurricane Mitch was profound; the country is still recuperating from the damage. It is
estimated that about 5,660 people died. The project lost information, data and equipment. In addition, unexpected
resource re-allocation was carried out for some emergency relief activities including emergency infrastructure
activities in the Sula Valley. Field-surveys had to be rescheduled and postponed for several months after the
hurricane. The project had trained about 70 field staff for the CMAT, but the contract to hire these trainees took
several months to finalize because of necessity of rescheduling work plans. This delay of the contract caused
serious damage to the component: many trainees had to look for other jobs and the project had to train new field
staff.

The activities of the RRNN subsequent to the hurricane were also restructured to devolve responsibility for a wide
range of activities to municipalities and producer groups. On the one hand, those activities contributed to the
generation of employment and created additional support for communities and the municipal government for the
post-Mitch reconstruction. On the other, however, it took months to restructure the component's implementation.


In addition, the reforms to the registry law as well as institutional arrangements for conversion to a new registry
model of folio real were not carried out when planned since the Government and Congress were occupied in
post-Mitch recovery activities. These were, however carried out later in the project and now form the basis for the
PATH project whose objectives include the consolidation of the institutionality for the folio real. New demands
were placed on the CMAT team to address increased conflict due to post-Mitch pressures on forested areas and
agricultural frontier areas in the PAAR sites.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
During the one-year period from late 1998 to late 1999, the project's efforts in the forest sector were derailed when
a downward spiral in the public forestry institution performance began as a result of mismanagement. Information



                                                         - 10 -

and evidence collected by AFE-COHDEFOR's Executive Board and the Ministries of Agriculture and Finance, and
the conclusions that were drawn from them at that time amply supported this contention. Beyond the allegations of
mismanagement, there were much more serious contentions of growing and increasingly bold, institutionalized
corruption and illegality. These led to, among others, USAID retiring all support from AFE-COHDEFOR in May
1999. Following significant pressure and widespread consensus on the need for GOH to act, joint action was taken
by the Executive, SAG, Ministry of Finance and AFE-COHDEFOR's Board to replace individuals implicated in
the agency's problems. A semblance of reasonable governance was restored in AFE-COHDEFOR, but it was
another year before the damage was overcome and the project could fully re-engage with AFE-COHEDEFOR. The
Bank played a key role in the ultimate resolution of the problems, through the project team's close monitoring of
the situation and engagement with and assistance to the actions by GOH (through SAG and the Finance Ministry)
attempting to halt these problems and by Bank management that directly raised the issues to the Executive as
overall governance concerns and tied their resolution to future Bank support for certain critical assistance to the
country.

The only other difficulties encountered were in providing timely counterpart funding and the delay of the approval
of the project by the Congress.

In the early years of the project, slow disbursement of Bank resources, due to complicated internal administrative
procedures, caused delay of some activities. Streamlining the procedures in the GOH and reinforcing the
administrative capacity at the PCU resolved this. A recent Bank evaluation of the local capacity for project
procurement was rated satisfactory and the Bank acknowledged local capacity to carry out the two new projects at
the PCU.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The director of the PCU was replaced once after the governmental administrative change in 2001, but this change
did not cause major turnover of the personnel of the project staff at the PCU. The low turnover of personnel in the
PCU ensured continuity in administration and field operation. The clear focus of the new administration of the
CMAT redirected the component and the number of staff was increased under the administration.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost was US$41.8 million at appraisal, including IDA (US$34.0 million), GOH (US$6.4 million)
and beneficiary (US$1.4 million) financing. This was increased by US$9.6 million (IDA US$8.3 million, GOH
US$1.3 million) through a supplemental credit dated 22 November 2001. The supplemental credit was made
necessary following Hurricane Mitch and the series of resulting emergency expenditures financed by the project as
well as additional costs suffered due to the loss of equipment and the need to redo substantial parts of the rural
cadastre in Comayagua because of changes in landforms and loss of surveying monuments.

During the life of the project, formal re-allocation between expenditure categories was affected a total of 4 times.
In great measure this reflects the pilot and learning nature of the project, which required flexibility in re-allocating
costs as circumstances changed, sometimes drastically (e.g., as a result of Hurricane Mitch).

Total expenditures amounted to US$44.8 million. The differences between the appraisal estimates and the final
total were primarily attributable to a series of factors: (i) depreciation of the SDR at negotiation, the original credit
of SDR 23.5 million was valued at US$34.0 million whereas its actual value became US$30.9 million thus also
reducing counterpart obligations; (ii) GOH counterpart obligations were formally reduced following Hurricane
Mitch in recognition of the fiscal crisis created by the rebuilding efforts; (iii) the beneficiary contribution,
estimated at appraisal to be US$1.4 million and consisting primarily of in-kind labor contributions, were not
accounted for in the final overall project cost.

The actual expenditures approximated the initial budget. The expenditures in the CMAT reached US$ 15.1
million (World Bank: US$ 13.9 million) at the end of the project from the initial budget of US$ 11.8 million. The
RRNN amounted to US$20.5 million (World Bank: US$ 18.2 million) at the end of the project compared with the
initial budget US$ 23.1 million. The PCU expenditure was US$4.8 million (Word Bank: US$ 3.4 million)
compared with a budget of US$4.1 million. Emergency expenditures for the rehabilitation of works in the Valle de


                                                           - 11 -

Sula after Hurricane Mitch absorbed US$ 4.4 of actual expenditures. The total World Bank credit financed
US$40.0 million of expenditures (89% of total financing), while the GOH contribution was about 60% of the initial
estimate (for the reasons detailed above).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability of the project is rated as likely for several reasons indicated below. It is important to note
that from the outset the project was seen as the first phase of a two-phase program. The two new IDA projects
Land Administration Project (PATH, Project ID: P055991) and Forests and Rural Productivity Project (PBPR,
Project ID: P064914) are designed to consolidate and build upon the PAAR. This is crucial as otherwise the
difficulties faced by the project with respect to promoting broad participation of local populations in managing
their natural resources would cast doubt on the sustainability of some elements. For example, if the FPL were to
terminate at this time, rather than being further strengthened through the new PBPR project and integrated into
SAG's overall programs, the outsourcing mechanism that the fund created would also cease. The strategy for the
long term sustainability resides in the institutionalization of the instruments and approaches developed through the
PAAR and, in the case of the FPL in linking to existing programs (e.g., FONADERS, FHIS) and SAG's
replicating the model programmatically through it's other multi-lateral and bi-laterally financed projects. The
project's strong focus on the development of the service provider mechanism and technology transfer was needed
in order to successfully develop the approach. The next generation strengthening efforts, through the PBPR, are
required in order to emphasize community organization and development, marketing aspects, and participatory
natural resource management in order to favor sustainability.

Government's commitment to land administration.                   The GOH is fully committed to the program and
currently implementing PATH financed by IDA. The GOH included land administration in the PRSP, the recent
CAS and the 2002-2007 Government Development Plan. In May 2002, the executive and judicial branches of the
GOH signed an agreement to integrate the cadastre that is administered by the executive branch of government and
the real estate registry that is managed by the judicial branch. This agreement created the Integrated System of
Registration and Cadastre (SINREC). The SINREC is composed of the Presidency and the Supreme Court, and is
chaired by the head of National Convergence Fund (FONAC) with the PAAR's PCU as the technical secretariat3.
The web-based technological platform, SURE, has become the de facto standard in the operation of cadastre,
registry and regularization in Honduras. In addition, the project was successful in providing the Congress with
sufficient grounds for ratification of the aforementioned new laws and the establishment of the Property Institute.
These legal frameworks serve as the foundation for sound land administration. Furthermore, the SURE is designed
to link with local municipalities and other governmental institutions where actual land titling processes are taking
place. These services are supposed to generate income for these authorities. PATH is to consolidate the results of
PAAR.

Government's commitment to natural resource management.                     The GOH is also committed to bringing
about sustainability in natural resource management in rural areas. The GOH decided to include natural resource
management in the PRSP, the recent CAS and aforementioned Development Plan. The results of the project
guaranteed GOH's interest in development of the follow on project; PBPR financed by IDA. In addition, the GOH
ratified the General Water Law and is currently preparing the new Forestry Law to reflect solid and recognized
achievements of the project. In the new forestry law, the GOH plans to expand forest co-management and usufruct
mechanisms with communities in order to improve the living standards of the rural poor while increasing forest
protection. The project also established a mechanism for resolving forest tenure conflicts through the
regularization of the traditional rights of forest populations by demarcating the limits of land tenure boundaries.
Much of the progress today in GOH's strategy and policy for rural lands, public forestry and provision of extension
services to the rural poor in public forest lands has been due to the PAAR project's contributions. Among others,
the project's assistance in areas of policy and legal reform while demonstrating practical solutions to such complex
issues as regularization of lands, management of public forestlands, and privatization of extension services has
increased GOH commitment by raising awareness of the issues and showing how to respond to them.

Strengthened AFE-COHDEFOR.                     Concrete steps have been taken to date by the GOH for forestry sector



                                                           - 12 -

reform reinforced by the restructured AFE-COHDEFOR. Currently, the GOH has a plan to use a Poverty
Reduction Strategy Credit (P074758, under preparation) as a vehicle for finalizing the reforms sought. As the
result of the project, the central and regional offices of AFE-COHDEFOR in the Departments of Francisco
Morazán, Yoro and Olancho are now well equipped with forestry master plans, operation plans and biodiversity
conservation plans, as well as renovated infrastructure and modernized equipment for carrying out ground
operations. Progress has been made in the decentralization of decision making to the municipal level and
provision of support for assuming these responsibilities. AFE-COHDEFOR is implementing auctions for national
forests according to these plans. (Before starting the project, indiscriminate harvesting was taking place in order to
provide remuneration for the institution's staff.) At the same time, the forest fire controls employed by the project
proved to be effective and have reduced forest fire incidents. These activities, including plan-based forest
management, are expected to contribute income to the national treasury. These advances, however, have yet to be
adequately institutionalized in the public forest agency due to inadequate performance of AFE-COHDEFOR. The
roots of the performance problems have lain primarily in the over-dimensioning of the agencies role, recurrent
problems with corruption and lack of transparency and a historical lack of political will on the part of government
to address these problems. The current GOH administration has embarked on a profound reform of the legal and
institutional framework, with support from the PAAR and utilizing the lessons learned through the project. The
PBPR will assist to continue on this path of reform.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The pilot nature of the project has been confirmed in so far as experience gained as a result of its activities has
been used in the formulation of two new projects. The PCU remains the focal point of these new projects. The role
of these projects is to consolidate the results and lessons learned from PAAR. Installation of SURE in public
entities and massive training courses for the users of SURE are planned in PATH. Consolidation of community
participation and organization, as well as incorporation of local stakeholders into public forest management
processes, is programmed in PBPR.

Forestry master plans and operation plans, as well as biodiversity conservation plans have been submitted to
AFE-COHDEFOR and are being implemented. Auctions for timber harvesting are generating income for
AFE-COHDEFOR. So far 295,000m3 of timber has been harvested4 under the plans. As personnel in
AFE-COHDEFOR has been reduced, the current volume of timber is estimated to be roughly equivalent to the
costs of maintaining the institution.

The above developments are proper steps in the direction of sound transitional arrangements, especially with the
PATH and PBPR's particular attention to the issues of: (a) integrating the independent PCU into the regular
structure of the administration, as there is considerable reliance on this unit for generating plans, development
mechanisms, data and information that contribute to policy dialogues, as well as developing and maintaining the
information platforms; and (b) the severe fiscal constraints that could result in shortfalls in provision of counterpart
funding, suggesting a risk that GOH may not be able to maintain the level of services initiated with the projects.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The overall Bank performance in identification, preparation assistance and appraisal has been rated satisfactory.
The project was consistent with the GOH and Bank development priorities and strategies, as well as Bank's CAS.
The Bank's inputs in terms of staff and skill-mix were considered as adequate during the preparation and
implementation of the project, but there were some shortfalls in technical design. As a pilot, some design elements
for the more complex aspects of the project were overly theoretical, particularly as far as the design for the CMAT
that was very ambitious and lacked a strong and successful technical model that it could emulate. The quality
assessment team carefully analyzed the project design and gave thoughtful advice to the appraisal team. The team
also urged the importance of careful design and implementation of monitoring. The SAR included indicators (see
the SAR annex G), but these indicators were not properly designed and created some confusion during
implementation. The lack of proper economic and financial analysis in the SAR also created some difficulties in
measuring impact in economic terms. During implementation, the project encountered several difficulties that the



                                                           - 13 -

quality assessment team had foreseen and predicted. The initial technical design for the CMAT and the eventual
discovery of serious errors in the already existing cadastral and registry data were a critical factor in serious delays
and sharp increase in the workload of the component. The delay of this component also affected other activities
that relied on the results of the CMAT. These problems were greatly overcome in the last two years of the project,
but required some scaling back of the original targets. The design for the self-financing mechanism for the
Biodiversity Conservation sub-component was also over ambitious. The project could not carry out the
construction of eco-tourism attractions, partly because of land tenure problems that resulted in GOH's inability to
provide the lands for the facilities and, instead, gave priority to the construction of Park information centers.

The adoption of a flexible and innovative approach demonstrated its effectiveness in mitigating the complexity of
the institutional arrangement and technical difficulties of the project. However, some risks could have been
avoided. During preparation, the Bank, together with the GOH, should have analyzed existing data in more detail
as well as the system of registry and cadastre of the Department of Comayagua.

This project was risky. However, as a pilot (especially in an IDA country) this was to be expected. Ultimately, it
turned out to be one of the best examples of good land administration. Learning from some difficult experiences
encountered during this project, the Bank has been able to design the successor projects better and lay out key
indicators that can be seen in the Project Appraisal Document of PATH.

7.2 Supervision:
Overall Bank supervision is rated satisfactory. All annual reports exhibit the progress of the project quantitatively.
However, qualitative figures were not consistent with the monitoring indicators of the SAR; this was especially
observed in the CMAT. This was partly because of the constant changes of the CMAT due to testing and
adaptation of different technologies and methodologies that made establishment of effective monitoring indicators
and methods difficult.

Supervision missions were composed of a broad mix of international and local professionals. The core supervision
team was maintained throughout the project, notwithstanding the fact that task team leader was changed in the
year 2002. A total 17 supervision missions including the mid-term evaluation were carried out. In addition, the
Bank assisted the PCU in conducting a series of workshops early in the year 2000 (after encountering serious
delays due to hurricane Mitch) in order to revise the work program and the technical aspects of the CMAT. The
workshop resulted in clarification of strategies, goals, and changes in the technology and monitoring indicators. It
was acknowledged as a turning point in the CMAT. Supervision reports realistically reflected the project's
performance, especially the difficulties of the CMAT component and the restructuring processes of
AFE-COHDEFOR. The MTR did not result in restructuring of the project's objective and components. However,
the project strategy and work programs for the CMAT were well analyzed and its decision to complete the registry
and cadastre in the Department of Comayagua created favorable conditions for the project to refine its sophisticated
web-based information infrastructure.

It was wise to introduce assessments during implementation: independent organizations such as universities were
used. These taught much about how the results of such a "pilot project" could best be implemented in future
projects.

The Bank's flexible decision to support emergency relief activities after the hurricane and to amend the credit
agreement was well considered: these continue to contribute to the project's success and to stabilize communities
that suffered from the disaster.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The project preparation by the borrower was rated satisfactory. The borrower committed adequate resources to the
preparation efforts. A national preparation team composed of many professionals in the areas of natural resource



                                                         - 14 -

management, forestry, agriculture and land administration was assembled by the SAG, INA and DEC.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of the GOH is rated satisfactory in spite of often-late provision of counterpart contributions. The
GOH provided full support to the project. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) together with the SAG closely
monitored project progress. The high level of government commitment was seen in the selection and maintenance
of staff for the PCU; competent professionals were recruited and kept on following changes in government
administration and sectoral authorities. This continuity of the technical staff was extremely important to achieving
the PAAR's successes. The ratification of new laws also showed the GOH's high level of commitment. Close
coordination and involvement of municipalities and regional offices of AFE-COHDEFOR were effective in
promoting the GOH's decentralization efforts.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the SAG and its respective implementing agencies, departments and institutions subordinate to
the ministry was rated satisfactory. The PCU at all levels was well staffed for effective implementation of the
project. The management and institutional capacity of the PCU has been progressively strengthened through new
recruitment and technical assistance. Suggestions and recommendations from the supervisory missions and the
MTR were successfully carried out by the PCU. The transparency and accountability of project management
ensured prompt and rigorous monitoring and evaluation by the MOF and the SAG. There was strict compliance
with disbursement and procurement rules and regulations throughout the project implementation period.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrow performance was rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

On the basis of the above review and assessment of the project, the following lessons can be drawn for similar
projects:

Horizontal communication leads to faster and better troubleshooting. For the first four years, the project staff
followed the chain of command. When project staff faced a problem, he/she had to ask supervisors and then the
question went up to the project component coordinators, to the project director, and finally to the World Bank, the
task manager. If the task manager needed to consult with other staff at the Bank, the question flowed through the
chain of command. Sometimes, the question was lost in the system and never answered, which caused several
delays in project implementation. The new project administration allowed project staff or project component
leaders to communicate directly with Bank staff and/or consultants. This horizontal communication management
improved problem solving and increased effectiveness and efficiency in decision-making.

Participatory forest management would have further increased rural income and participation of forest
protection. The main objective of the forest master plans and operation plans was to support AFE-COHDEFOR's
restructuring processes. These plans were highly technical. The project held public consultations more than 60
times to ensure community and local inputs into forest management plans and identify ways to incorporate
interested groups into the benefits from public forest management, but to date only six community forestry pilots
have been implemented. No large-scale and systematic incorporation of local communities into public forest
management has yet been achieved. The lesson to be learned is that in designing a TOR for these plans, it would
be appropriate to incorporate participatory planning processes. Currently, the new Forestry Law is under
discussion in the Congress: as a result of this project the proposed law has pursued a new direction in participatory
community forestry.

Conservation of upland soil and forests requires more than technology extension. Improvement in technology
through the provision of technical information in the cultivation of uplands was important. There were, however,
clear needs for initial investment capital in the form of some materials such as hoses for small-scale irrigation and
other tools. The living standard of the rural poor whom the project targeted is very low: many of them do not have
either the tools or the capital to change their cultivating styles to the more appropriate technologies that the project



                                                          - 15 -

envisaged. At the same time, risks associated with the conversion were not contemplated in the project. Thus,
many farmers hesitate to convert on a large scale. Another important aspect is that "Familia enlace" (demo
farmers in communities) who received more technical services and initial capital from the project were considered
as "different" from other community members because they had more access to the project. Equal participation,
ownership of the project, as well as equity issues should be included in extension activities.

Community development and organization requires flexible response to communities' demands. Community
development skills in managing groups and mobilizing community members were required in extension services
and the protection of biodiversity. The type of extension services requested by rural beneficiaries varies and a
technology-driven extension service is only one component required for community development and organization.
It is essential to respect and respond flexibly to communities' demands for development and organizations without
losing the project's objective. These lessons were well considered in the formulation of PBPR.

Lessons learned from the experiences of the project have been fully incorporated into the two new proposed
projects financed by the IDA: PATH and PBPR.

PATH The pilot experience of the land administration component under PAAR allowed the GOH to field test
land regularization methodologies and to apply various technical surveying standards, as well as to estimate unit
costs (per property / per hectare) of overall cadastral surveying, regularization and registration activities. Project
cost estimates and targets of PATH were elaborated based on the PAAR results.

PBPR The lessons learned through implementing the natural resource management component of PAAR were
also instrumental in developing and piloting approaches for PBPR. PAAR tested: (i) institutional strengthening
and reform in the administration of public forest lands by the State; (ii) forest management which incorporates the
rights and usufruct of forest dwellers and communities; (iii) environmental impact assessment; (iv) the
development and validation of criteria and indicators for sustainable management of pine production forest; (v)
outsourcing of technical and operational activities to community groups; (vi) improving biodiversity conservation
efforts, evaluating and prioritizing the Honduras National Protected Areas System (SINAPH); and (vii) resolving
forest land tenure conflicts through the delimitation and demarcation of forest lands, and the communal titling of
indigenous lands (Tolupanes). PBPR replicated and built upon these PAAR's experiences.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The project's initial design required time and effort in order to make the concepts operational and to achieve the
main objectives, partially due to the lack of understanding of country's ambiguous land administration and natural
resource management legal and institutional framework. Despite this situation, PAAR is a successful project,
achieving great results in terms of national policies, institutional reform and land rights consolidation combined
with an adequate resource management (specially forests). These results helped in the government's Poverty
Reduction Strategy and became priorities in GOH's strategy, conducting to important institutional reforms during
his first two years.

Early on, the project had a slow but ascending learning curve, picking up in its fourth year with the advent of the
new administration, a strong formalization of the PCU and a fully trained acquisition unit took place. The UCP
became the leading technical unit in the sector in terms of property rights, land tenure, regional planning and its
intrinsically proven relationship with the land's resource management.

Bank Performance
The Bank's performance during preparation was acceptable even though the design had technical deficiencies.
During the project's implementation and appraisal it was highly satisfactory and positive, especially thanks to the
Task Managers, who had the flexibility required to carry out a pilot project of this kind, but with the technical
background and experience required for decision making in terms of how the project was developing. The
missions identified problems and constraints and assisted in the formulation of practical solutions, aiding technical
staff.



                                                         - 16 -

The Bank's and the project's procurement teams, under the Bank's supervision developed great local capacity in
the PCU, which was recently evaluated by the Bank as highly satisfactory and capable of carrying out the new
projects: PATH and PBPR. Technical local capacities where also developed, over three hundred technicians and
professionals were trained to carrying out the multitudinous activities demanded by the project.

Borrower Performance
During the first years the local capacity was limited, which affected on the project's implementation rhythm;
hurricane Mitch also had negative effects on the execution. The natural resources component had very good
results and the relationship with AFE-COHDEFOR was clearly emphasized from the start, the Fund for Upland
Producers, which had a late start, showed better results in terms of community participation and management
techniques. The CMAT had a significant upturn after 2002, when all the technical processes conducting to land
regularization where revised, the institutional coordination arrangement were strengthened with SINREC and the
technological platform (SURE) to support cadastre, registry and regularization operations was implemented. The
CMAT ended with the approval by Congress of new Property Law and creation of the Property Institute. The new
Territorial Management Law better integrates the two components, especially within the devolution scope towards
local governments.

Other Comments
The "Satisfactory" rating of the project fails to take into account the achievements detailed below. Because of
these, in addition to the other achievements described in this report, the project should have been rated "Highly
Satisfactory".
l   The project assisted to produce significant changes in Government policies in the forest subsector and in
    strategies for forest management. The project played an active role in the development of three fundamental
    laws that have been passed (Water and Sanitation, Land Use Planning Law, and the Property Law) and in the
    development of the Forestry Law, which is currently in Congress and expected to pass soon.
l   The project experiences [in pine forest management in public lands] convinced Government that the State
    Forest Agency was over-dimensioned and assisted it to take decisions on the redesign of the agency, including
    what now has become the intention to establish a completely new Forest Service.
l   The project experiences in forest management greatly contributed to a change in focus in the productive
    management of forest [from a timber-dominated model] toward multiple-use, community-forestry, and
    integrated management, including basic grain production [by households in forest lands] system as part of the
    management of the forest resources.
l   The project was successful in introducing institutional change in the State Forestry Agency such that
    Community Forestry was accepted and adopted as the means for forest management with civil society
    participation.
l   The project developed the instruments that may now be replicated and expanded upon (e.g., through the
    newly-approved Bank-financed Forests and Rural Productivity project) for regularizing the rights of people
    living in public forest lands and making forest dwellers aware of the benefits and costs of forest management.
l   The forest ecosystems map produced by the project provoked a greater public awareness of the reality of forest
    conversion and the alarming deforestation and advance of the agriculture frontier countrywide.
l   The project was influential in arriving at a definition of "forest" [for purposes of defining state interest in
    public forest lands] that resulted in a re-dimensioning of the public forest sector and policies on the restoration
    of degraded lands
l   The project validated the model of private provision of technical/extension services [to households of rural
    poor] for agriculture and forestry as well as methodologies for extension ("Familias Enlace" or Cooperating
    Families) that helped to increase the number of people reached.
l   The project was also important in planting the seeds for payment of environmental services; in developing
    models of watershed management, elaboration and execution of lower cost management plans,
    co-management of protected areas; and the process for rationalization of the country's protected areas' system.

A great deal of effort and attention was put into systematizing and disseminating the experiences of the Upland
Producers Fund. This has served both as a positive base for replication and expansion of the methodology and
approach as well as for the Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock's current efforts to strengthen its policies and


                                                          - 17 -

programs for upland and hillside agriculture.

The review of the Land Administration component has well captured and summarized the essence of the project's
actual activities and outcomes.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A.

10. Additional Information

1. The World Bank (1996), Final Report: Pre-Approval Quality at Entry Assessment, Honduras Natural Resources
Management and Land Administration Project
2. This web-based platform won the Bently Award in 2004. For more information:
http://www.bentley.com/en-US/Corporate/News/Quarter+2/Bentley+Announces+the+Winners+of+the+BE+Award
s+of+Excellence.htm
3. The World Bank (2004) The PAD of Land Administration Project, pg 9.
4. AFE-COHDEFOR (2003) Anuario Estadístico Forestal 2003. p78.




                                                   - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                         1
               Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Staff technically capable of carrying out                                       41 training sessions (Total participants: 25
their responsibility.                                                              forestry engineers and 76 promoters in the
                                                                                   protected areas)
2. MIS of forest estate that allows monitoring                                     Strengthening CIEF and improvement of
of resource.                                                                       connectivity through SINIT
3. Environmental and social concerns                                               3 private forest owner organizations and 2
incorporated into procedures.                                                      agroforestry cooperatives were incorporated
                                                                                   in the procedures.
4. Increased area of forest uder sustainable                                       560,073 has. is under sustainable
management with public involvement.                                                management (95% of the Project target
                                                                                   national forests: this is 161% of the original
                                                                                   target). 65 public consultations realized.
5. Increased income stream to local people                                         57%*
from forests adn increased forest output.
6. Conservation of priority watersheds and                                         12 priority micro-watershed are under sound
environmental forestry practiced.                                                  management.
7. Increased income from protected areas.                                          Data not available.
8. Freezing of invasions adn encroachment in                                       8 protected areas were demarcated
protected areas as result of clear                                                 (250,000has.)
demarcation and improved protection.
9. Improved administrative capacity to                                             Strengthened DAPVS in technical and
manage priority biodiversity.                                                      administrative capacities.
10. Increased productivity of agriculture and                                      Increased productivity (60%) in corn, beans
forestry.                                                                          and coffee production.
11. Improved organization of 6,500 upland                                          9,814 families organized into 443 groups of
producers.                                                                         farmers.**
12. Creation of successful models for                                              4 models (El Coyol, El Salitre, Matadero y
community forestry.                                                                Subirana).
13. Improved tenure security as incentive for                                      A total of 149,000 properties in urban and
investment in four Departments of Honduras                                         rural areas were registered and are to receive
                                                                                   the land titles. The PAAR- generated cost
                                                                                   savings in tenure regularization are approx.
                                                                                   U$409/property (urban) and 24.70/hectare
                                                                                   (rural). PAAR- developed methods form the
                                                                                   basis for GoH's future investments in land
                                                                                   administration.
14. Greaer tenure security for the rural poor.                                     72,000 (urban) and 77,000 (rural) parcels
                                                                                   were measured and registered in SURE.
15. Increased forest conservation in frontier                                      - 9 forest master plans for 9 forest
areas of Yoro and Olancho and reduced                                              management blocks created, covering a total
forest degradation elsewhere.                                                      of 560,073 ha. of public forestland.
                                                                                   - Forest-fire incidents reduced in the
                                                                                   Department of Yoro: from 385 cases in 1997
                                                                                   to 63 in 2001.
                                                                                   - 13 units of DAPVS in Yoro, Olancho and F.
                                                                                   Morazán were reinforced.
                                                                                   - 5 management plans for PAs, covering
                                                                                   124,281 ha were prepared.
16. Modern land administration.                                                    Development of SURE.

* Evaluación de resultados, efectos e impacto del Fondo para Productores de Ladera.
** Informe final del Fondo para Productores de Ladera.
Output Indicators:
                                                                         1
               Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Equipped field (3) and regional (11)                                            3 regional offices. 11 field offices.
offices.
2. Decentralized authority structure of field                                      9 management plans were approved and
offices.                                                                           under implementation (Guaimaca, El
                                                                                   Porvenir, Carrizal-Jano, San Estaban, Jocón,




                                                           - 19 -

                                                                                    Agua Fría, Morazán)
3. Trained national and regional staff and                                          41 training sessions for technicians and 270
private forest managers.                                                            for local workers.
4. Catalogue of national forest estate.                                             Catalogue redesigned to be compatible with
                                                                                    and integrated into the new national land
                                                                                    registry system.
5. Master plans for 344,000has. of public                                           Master plans for 560,073has.
forest land and production plans for
110,000has.
6. EIAs and 60 public consultations on plans.                                       4 EIAs and 65 public consultations.
7. Priority watershed plans for six areas.                                          22 watershed plans and 32 diagnostics.
8, Auctions for 30,000has. of national forest                                       295,000m3 (from more than 40,000 ha) ***
areas.
9. Four parks with eco-tourism attractions.                                         14 information centers for eco-tourists.
10. 10 protected areas under improved                                               9 protected areas under improved
management.                                                                         management. (Montaña de Yoro, Pico Pijol,
                                                                                    Sur de Texiguat, Sur de Pico Bonito, Mico
                                                                                    Quemado, Sierra de Agalta, La Muralla,
                                                                                    Misoco y Chile)
11. Implementation of self-financing fund.                                          Protected Areas Fund designed and agreed
                                                                                    with country's legal constitution included in
                                                                                    draft law submitted to Congress.
12. 120 proposals for upland for technical                                          51 proposals of technical transfer.
assistance funded.
13. Strengthened services of 40 NGOs and                                            24 NGOs and 443 groups of farmers.
producer organizations.
14. Focused research on upland agriculture                                          22 proposals financed.
and forestry management.
15. Folio Real establisehed in four                                                 1 Department.
Departments of Honduras.
16. Modernized institution for Property                                             SURE
Registry.
17. Increased number of landholder with                                             13 Tolupanes indigenous area of a total of
clear title.                                                                        27,450 ha. demarcated.

18. Clear definition of land and forestry                                           Survey methodologies have been developed
tenure in project area.                                                             and integrated into SURE.

19. Coordinated work program among DEC,                                             Work and coordination agreements were
NPR, INA, and municipal cadastre.                                                   established with DEC, NPR, INA and
                                                                                    municipal cadastres.

1End of project
*** Anuario Estadístico Forestal 2003. P.78. AFE-COHDEFOR.
Note. Following project closing, GOH committed US$ 3.5 million to initiate Forests and Rual Productivity Project's conditions
pending passage of new Forestry Law expected from November 2004.




                                                       - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Project Costs by Component (in US$million equivalent)
                                                  Appraisal     Actual/Latest    Percentage of
           Project Cost By Component              Estimate       Estimate          Appraisal
                                                 US$ million    US$ million
A. Land Administration Modernization
      Pilot Phase                                     2.1
      Post Pilot Phase                                9.7
      Subtotal                                       11.8            15.1          133.6%

B. Natural Resources Management
      Improved Natural Resources Management          11.0              9.6          87.3%
      Fund for Upland Producers                       6.8              8.0         117.6%
      Biodiversity Conservation                       5.4              2.9          53.7%
      Subtotal                                       23.1            20.5           88.7%

C. Project Coordination Unit                          3.2              4.7         150.0%
      Base Costs                                     38.1                           98.7%
      Physical Contingencies                          1.4
      Price Contingencies                             2.3

D. Valle de Sula                                         -             4.4

       Total Project Costs                           41.8            44.8          107.2%



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)




                                           - 21 -

                                                                Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category
                                            ICB           NCB         Other       N.B.F.   Total Cost
  1. Works                                  0.00           3.20        0.30       0.00       3.50
                                           (0.00)         (2.50)      (0.30)      (0.00)    (2.80)
  2. Goods                                  1.20           0.80        1.90       0.00       3.90
                                           (1.00)         (0.70)      (1.50)      (0.00)    (3.00)
  3. Consultants                            0.00           0.00        16.60      0.00       16.60
                                           (0.00)         (0.00)      (16.20)     (0.00)    (16.20)
  4. Training                               0.00           0.00        2.40       0.00       2.40
                                           (0.00)         (0.00)      (2.40)      (0.00)    (2.40)
  5. Sub-projects                           0.00           0.00        7.20       0.00       7.20
                                           (0.00)         (0.00)      (5.30)      (0.00)    (5.30)
  6. PPF                                    0.00           0.00        2.00       0.00       2.00
                                           (0.00)         (0.00)      (2.00)      (0.00)    (2.00)
  7. Incremental Recurrent Costs            0.00           0.00        6.20       0.00       6.20
                                           (0.00)         (0.00)      (2.20)      (0.00)    (2.20)
                 Total                      1.20           4.00        36.60      0.00       41.80
                                           (1.00)         (3.20)      (29.80)     (0.00)    (34.00)

* Figures in parenthesis are to be financed out of IDA credit.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                               Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category
                                          ICB            NCB         Other       N.B.F.    Total Cost
  1. Works                                1.69            4.74        1.90        0.00       8.33

  2. Goods                                1.13            1.04        3.63        0.00       5.80

  3. Consultants                          0.00            0.00        16.85       0.00      16.85

  4. Training                             0.00            0.00        1.67        0.00       1.67

  5. Sub-projects                         0.00            0.00        6.24        0.00       6.24
  6. PPF                                  0.00            0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00
  7. Incremental Recurrent                0.00            0.00        5.88        0.00       5.88
  Costs
                Total                     2.82            5.78        36.17       0.00      44.77


 Project Financing by Component (in US$million equivalent)




                                                    - 22 -

              Component                    Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest Estimate    Percentage of Appraisal
                                         Bank     Govt.    CoF.      Bank   Govt.     CoF.      Bank     Govt.    CoF.
   A. Land Administration
   Modernization
          Pilot Phase                    1.2      0.9
          Post Pilot Phase               9.0      0.7
         Subtotal                        10.3     1.5               13.93    1.26              135.2      84.0

   B. Natural Resources
   Management
          Improved Natural               5.0      6.0                7.63    1.86              152.6      31.0
          Resources Management
          Fund for Upland Producers      6.8      0.0                8.14    0.0               119.7
          Biodiversity Conservation      4.1      1.2                2.52    0.33               61.5      27.5
          Subtotal

   C. Project Coordination Unit          3.1      0.1                3.43    1.32              110.6     1,320
          Base Costs                     29.3     7.2
          Physical Contingencies         1.0      0.5
          Price Contingencies            1.9      0.5

   D. Valle de Sula                                                  4.35
                  Total                   32.1    9.9*              40.00   4.77**             124.6      48.2


* This includes the estimated contribution by the Beneficiaries of the amount equivalent to US$1.44 million.
** Contribution by the GoH only. Beneficiaries contribution were not accounted for in the final overall project cost.




                                                        - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

I. Overview
In most of the activities, the project had a pilot characteristic laying the ground for future expansion of
investments. Main outcome of these experiences were the formulation of two subsequent project approved and
under implementation: (i) Land Administration Program (PATH) and Forest and Rural Productivity Project
(PBPR). The relatively high returns expected from these two projects ­ a 44% ERR for the PATH and up to 25%
for community forestry in the PBPR ­ are due in large measure to the groundbreaking work and institutional
building carried out by the PAAR.

The results from the PAAR project are generating a number of important economic benefits, including increase in
land value due to enhanced tenure security and increased productivity in natural resources use (agricultural and
forestry), however the full benefits will only materialize over the next decade. Benefit cost analysis of the
productive and natural resource management activities was estimated by the Borrower to be 1.7. This figure was
calculated based on the actual project costs and the estimated project impacts on forest and agricultural production.
The project also contributed to the strengthening the institutional capacity at the central and local levels in land
administration, the agriculture and natural resource sectors and for promotion of biodiversity conservation, which
are pre-requisites for the successful implementation of the new projects and Governments continued reforms in
land and forestry. The economic analyses of the project carried out by the Borrower and by the Bank for the
formulation of the two follow-on projects for land administration (PATH) and forestry/agriculture (PBPR) indicate
that the project was a good investment for Honduras. Cost/benefit analyses show that the project has positive
economic impacts. This assessment confirms the project SAR conclusion that: "50 percent of project investment
funds going to directly productive investment would produce measurable economic returns necessary to justify
almost 75 percent of the total proposed project costs".

II. Land Administration Modernization
The land component enhanced the land security that, in turn, will contribute to increased agricultural investment
and productivity, greater environmental management and improved land value. Main benefits include: a) direct
economic benefits; b) indirect administrative savings; c) financial and fiscal benefits; and d) environmental
benefits.

Main economic benefit is estimated from the increased property value due to regularization considered as a
summary indicator of the capitalized value of three major benefits associated with land regularization: improved
investment and environmental conservation incentives, marketability, and ability to use land as collateral for loans.
Estimates of the direct economic benefits were derived in two steps. First, the Project's regularization activities
resulted in about 72,000 urban housing properties and 77,000 rural properties (total 149,000 properties) being
registered. Second, to use a more updated value of the incremental value associated with regularization of tenure,
the values estimated during the appraisal of PATH were used. These estimates refer to the whole incremental
value of land regularization which will be accomplished in the coming years; for the economic analysis of PAAR a
conservative estimate of only half of the estimated incremental of the value of smaller properties was considered.
The incremental value is expected to be obtained over a period of 15 years after 2005. Costs of the CMAT and
40% of the cost of UCP are imputed to the land component. The stream of benefits and costs are discounted to
calculate the net present value (10% discount rate) and internal rate of return. Under these considerations, the
NPV of the component is estimated at US$ 2,362,000 and the ERR at around 13%. This result does not vary too
much from the 17% estimated in the University of Maryland study involving a small sample of land reform
beneficiaries and mentioned in the project SAR.

One of the main financial benefits from the PAAR was to reduce transaction costs and generate future, consequent
savings to the economy from increased efficiency of service delivery. Because they are intangible, these benefits
are not amenable to benefit-cost analysis. While they can only be measured against an unlikely counterfactual
scenario, they are substantial. The PAAR-developed methods form the basis for GOH's future investments in land
administration so the PAAR's land regularization costs can reasonably be used as an indicator of future
regularization costs. The PAAR-generated cost savings in tenure regularization in the urban context are
approximately US$409 per property and in the rural context US$ 24.70 per hectare. The total expected cost



                                                          - 24 -

savings during the next four years from the IDA-financed PATH project alone (which targets about 30% of the
country's real estate property) are on the order of US$ 186 million, against a total cost of about US$25 million.

III. Natural Resources Management
The project generated a variety of benefits, including building or strengthening social capital, increasing
productivity in natural resource use (agricultural, forestry, livestock) in a sustainable manner, promoting
biodiversity conservation, strengthening institutions at the central and local level in the agriculture and natural
resource sectors.

a) Forest management:
The main objective of this sub-component was the strengthening of the technical and administrative capacity at
central, regional and local level of the institution dealing with forest management (AFE-COHDEFOR).

A benefit-cost analysis of PAAR's forest management activities in the national forests of Yoro was carried out and
used, among others, to estimate the benefit-cost outcomes for the national forests of Olancho and Francisco
Morazán as well. The sensitivity of the model results based on the Yoro analysis was examined. In addition, a
qualitative evaluation of the social and environmental costs and benefits of the proposed forest management
activities was carried out.

The study investigated the economic efficiency observed in PAAR's use of its forest management tools. More
specifically it: 1) did a benefit-cost analysis of PAAR's forest management activities in the national forests of Yoro,
2) prognosticated the benefit-cost outcome for further involvement in the national forests of Olancho and Francisco
Morazán based on what was observed in Yoro, 3) examined the sensitivity of the model results based on the Yoro
analysis in anticipation of work in Olancho and Francisco Morazán, and 4) evaluated qualitatively the social and
environmental costs and benefits of PAAR's activities in forest management.

A soil expectation value (SEV) model was developed and used to estimate the optimal rotation age based on local
conditions and purely financial considerations. SEV models are widely applied in forestry and provide an estimate
of the financial return to bare ground that will be dedicated to timber and timber resource related products in
perpetuity (Davis and Johnson 1987). The maximization of SEV is a well-known concept of fundamental
importance to the economic evaluation of forest resource development projects. Similar techniques have been
employed in Honduran forestry (Flores and Ruiz 1997). The results of this model provide guidance in the selection
of a rotation age for the forest regulation model.

In order to evaluate the costs and benefits associated with these changes a forest regulation model (FRM) was
developed. Patterned after the model employed in the creation of the 1997 forest management plan for Yoro the
FRM takes into account the existing timber stands within the management unit. Management policies such as
non-declining yield and prioritized harvesting schedules are also enforced and their impact on costs and benefits
thereby incorporated in the analysis. It is in this model where we incorporate a reduced rotation age based on the
SEV model, the accelerated transition period, the increased timber sale prices, reduced input costs and increased
timber yields per hectare.

The following quantitative changes due to PAAR's participation were examined using the FRM.
·        the rotation age was dropped from 40 to 35 years
·        the transition period to full regulation harvesting levels was reduced from 8 to 4 years
·        the gross revenue from timber sales was increased by 10 percent
·        the cost of regeneration was reduced by 20 percent
·        the cost of site preparation for harvesting was reduced by 25 percent
·        the net yield from timber harvesting is increased by 5 percent

The results of the with/without scenarios are compared in the following table that illustrates the present net worth
of land and timber under a range of cost assumptions. The baseline case uses the most likely input/output price
levels and a guiding rate of interest of 7% (the real rate, where future costs and returns are measured in current



                                                          - 25 -

lempiras). In the worst-case situation the expected input costs for forest management activities are increased by 20
percent, the gross revenue from stumpage is reduced by 20 percent and the interest rate is 9%. In the best-case
situation the previous input/output price changes are reversed and the interest rate is set at 5%. The participation
of PAAR results in strong positive returns under the full range of conditions illustrated in the table. In all cases
there is at least a doubling in the present net worth of land and timber within the Yoro management unit due to
PAAR's participation. The value of the timber and land under the most likely case scenario with full PAAR
participation is 16,440 lempiras per hectare. This value is twice that observed in the worst case and half that
observed in the best. It should be remembered when looking at these land with timber prices that they represent
the average value for national forest land in Yoro under the conditions in which it is currently found and within the
constraints that it is managed.

A more detailed examination of the FRM output for the baseline case gives the following changes in benefits and
costs. For the total cost incurred by PAAR, which has a present value of 24,619,713 lempiras, the present net
worth of AFE-COHDEFOR's Yoro operation goes from 233,447,772 lempiras to 527,017395 lempiras. These
results yield a benefit-cost ratio of 11.9 for the full participation of PAAR in the management activities of
COHDEFOR in Yoro.

 No Participation by PAAR
                     Input Price         Output Price           Present Net Worth of Land and Timber at:
                       Level                 Level                        (Lempiras per Hectare)
                  Adjustment Factor    Adjustment Factor      Low 5% Interest   Baseline 7%      High 9%
                                                                                  Interest        Interest
 Worst Case             1.20                 0.80                 7,298            4,904          3,772
 Baseline               1.00                 1.00                11,599            7,639          5,724
 Best Case              0.80                 1.20                15,937           10,399          7,693

 Full Participation by PAAR
                     Input Price         Output Price           Present Net Worth of Land and Timber at:
                       Level                 Level                        (Lempiras per Hectare)
                  Adjustment Factor    Adjustment Factor      Low 5% Interest   Baseline 7%      High 9%
                                                                                  Interest        Interest
 Worst Case             1.20                 0.80                16,934           11,219          8,357
 Baseline               1.00                 1.00                24,805           16,440          12,235
 Best Case              0.80                 1.20                32,754           21,713          16,151


Economic Contribution by Category of Management Activity
The results of PAAR's activities, evaluated in their aggregate impact above, are now evaluated individually.
Individual tasks that significantly contributed to the achievement of the observed results in each case were
identified and their costs summed and compared to the benefits derived. These benefit-cost ratios should provide a
very tentative guideline to the establishment of future priorities in activity funding.

Tenure and Usufruct.        There are four tasks within the tenancy activity. These tasks are directed at determining
the location and legal situation of the national forests with particular emphasis on rural communities and their
involvement in national forest occupancy and usufruct.

PAAR has made resolution of forest land occupancy and use conflicts a very high priority activity. There are
strong indications that substantial progress is being made in this area through their cadastral survey and rural
population census tasks. Another essential element in achieving a satisfactory resolution of this issue is PAAR's
rural community activity in promotion and consultation. In performing this benefit-cost analysis we allocate their
full tenure and usufruct budget and one-third of their promotion and consultation budget to this objective and
expect that as a result of these efforts COHDEFOR will be recapturing a substantial portion of the funds now lost
due to illegal "taxes" and reduced competition in the timber bidding process. We conservatively estimate an
additional 10% increase in stumpage value due to PAAR's efforts in this area. A benefit-cost ratio of 4.66 is
observed for the involved tasks of these two activities.



                                                            - 26 -

Forest Planning.      There are three task categories identified within PAAR's planning activity. The collection of
data and preparation of the maps essential to land management decisions is included here. Five-year plans are to
be developed as well as plans relating to watershed and protection forests. All planning activity is to be integrated
from the level of the long-range master forest plan to annual operating plans.

Through the efforts of PAAR the Yoro forest management unit has been able to maintain a level of planning effort
that would not have been otherwise possible. Because of this support they are well prepared to aggressively pursue
full implementation of the forest management plan. We think that PAAR's assistance has placed them about four
years in advance of where they would be without it. We would assign all of the costs associated with this activity to
this effort and estimate the benefit cost ratio to be 6.45.

Forest Inventory.      Within inventory activity are two task categories covering all forest measurements. Timber
stand information needed for any level of planning from the long-range forest master plan to operational plans is
found within this activity. Also included is the marking of standing timber prior to sale.

The use of consulting foresters to do inventory and sale preparation work in lieu of COHDEFOR personnel has
resulted in lower associated costs. We estimate that the sale preparation cost originally budgeted for this task were
reduced by approximately one-quarter. In order to achieve this transition to the use and administration of
consulting foresters in this task, PAAR expended funds from the inventory activity budget. We have applied an
estimated expenditure of one-quarter the monies budgeted for this activity. A benefit-cost ratio of 1.75 is estimated
for this task.

Promotion and Consultation.         The promulgation and consultation activity has five task categories directed at
communication with local communities. Active two-way communication with the rural population is sought
through consultation on and explanation of forestry related activities. One-third of the funds budgeted to these
tasks were charged to PAAR's work at resolving open or latent community opposition to normalized timber sales.
The benefit associated with this cost has already been discussed in connection with Tenure and Usufruct activity.

Forest Management.        There are six task categories within management activity. This activity is quite
comprehensive and covers most aspects of forest management including protection, maintenance of forest access,
silvicultural operations and sale administration.

Very significant reductions in the costs associated with accomplishing stand regeneration can be achieved through
the use of municipal contracts. We estimate that regeneration costs can easily be cut by one-fifth or more using
what has been learned in both Yoro and the El Cajon project. We estimate the cost of developing and
institutionalizing this community based contractual approach to regeneration at one-quarter of PAAR's
expenditures in this activity. A benefit-cost ratio of 5.36 is calculated for this undertaking.

Fire presuppression and suppression tasks done with PAAR funding have been impressive. Potential annual losses
due to wildfire have been substantially reduced. These reductions in areas burned will result in increased annual
yields at time of harvest, which is estimated to be in the order of five percent of current yields. One-quarter of
PAAR's expenditures in this activity were assigned to presuppression and suppression related tasks. A benefit-cost
ratio of 8.92 is estimated for these tasks.

Forest Research.      Four task categories comprise research activity. These applied research tasks are directed at
improving conditions contributory to sustainable forest management. Legal, technical and economic issues are
addressed within this activity.

PAAR has taken a major role in the development of the new forest law. Under the proposed law COHDEFOR will
be given more discretion in establishing rotation ages for the national forests. Economic considerations should
enter into the determination of the appropriate rotation age. We feel that some movement toward a shorter rotation
will be achieved because of the very substantial economic returns that can be realized. It is conservatively




                                                          - 27 -

estimated that the rotation age will be changed from 40 to about 35 years in Yoro. Certainly for mature timber
stands experiencing low marginal value growth, such as those found in Yoro, an early conversion to an appropriate
SEV rotation is economically justifiable. We estimate that PAAR expended about one-fifth of its activity budget in
work related to this effort. The benefit-cost ratio of 11.9 (an ERR of over 50%) for this task indicates that it is
money well spent indeed.

Social Impact
In Yoro, the record shows that the involvement of communities and individuals in all aspects of forest management
instigated through the PAAR project, has led to a lowered fire incidence. Obviously local people feel that they have
now a personal stake in the health of the forest. It is too early to tell whether this will also lead to a reduction in
fire damage, once a fire gets started. We have provided a quantitative estimate of this social impact and
incorporated that estimate in the FRM model.

Another social impact is the resolution on the "timber tax" issue, where local and/or outside groups exact a fee
upon harvesting. This impact has also been quantified and accounted for in the FRM model.

Employment is another important social economic impact. Based on some PAAR project data and data gleaned
from the project El Cajon - which has a longer history than the PAAR project - we estimated the following
numbers:

l    Site preparation for reforestation provides 2 man days/ha. At a steady state annual allowable cost of 873 ha
     this means 1746 man days/year.
l    Planting shows 200 plant/man day. At a 2x2 m spacing this means 2500 plants/ha, which in turn means 12.5
     man days/ha. Assuming that with the seed free method only 20% of the annual allowable harvest of 873 ha
     would have to be planted, this generates 0.2*873*12.5 man days/year or 2182 man days. The other 80% of
     the 873 ha will be handled through spot planting (complementation). Assuming this will take only 20% of the
     12.5 man days calculated for planting, this will generate 0.80*873*0.20 man days or 2182 m or 1746 man
     days/year. Regeneration through planting and complementation will generate 2182+1746=3928 man
     days/year.
l    Annual management activities are placed at 2 man days per ha per year, for a total for the 30555 ha in Yoro of
     61110 man days.
l    Not counting sale preparation and harvesting (which may not involve the local people to any large extent),
     about 1746+3928+61110= 66784 man days of employment are generated for replanting/regeneration/all forest
     management activities. At 200 man days per full time employee per year, this means an employment of 334
     full time persons. For 30555 ha this is about 1 full time person per 100 ha. In Europe this number used to be
     2 persons, so this is a conservative estimate.

We have no estimates for employment multipliers for Honduras. In the US in rural areas, these tend to be about
1.8-2.7. If the multiplier could be assumed to be 2, total employment generated could be as much as 133568 man
days in Yoro.

Environmental Benefits and Other Externalities
The PAAR project can be credited with a number of environmental impacts. Economically, these are in the nature
of externalities, largely non-marketable benefits.

As important environmental benefit provides through the PAAR project is the sustainability of the forest
management, sound forest management coupled with the demonstration and construction of simple erosion control
systems (rondos), will largely eliminate erosion and leads to a healthy pine forest. This, in turn, provides benefits
such as carbon sequestration, a healthy wildlife and a maintenance of biodiversity (as stimulated through the seed
tree method).

Another very important benefit is the area of water production. While trees are not the optimal vegetation if water
yields are to be maximized (shrubs are), a healthy forest stand does regulate water intake and reduces water runoff
in extreme precipitation cases (as happens in the recurring hurricanes). In meetings with the 3 mayors of


                                                         - 28 -

communities such as those from the city of Yoro, this benefit was obviously driven home after the impacts of
hurricane Mitch. Clean water was obviously a product the communities were willing to pay for, including payment
for forest management activities.

Finally, the seed tree method as employed in the management of the pine forests by PAAR, is conducive to the
maintenance of biodiversity and the gene pool. The one negative environmental impact is in the harvesting phase
as envisioned by the management plans. While these can, and are, mitigated, roading tends to produce negative
impacts even when done carefully.

Olancho and Francisco Morazán
The Olancho and Francisco Morazán management areas have a biosocial environment similar to that found in
Yoro. A high proportion of their pine forest is in the more mature age classes and the average site class is not
likely to be much different from that of Yoro. These two areas also have rural populations that live in or near the
national forests and are very attentive to COHDEFOR activities in these forests.

The economic analysis of PAAR's influence on COHDEFOR operations in Yoro has shown a very high benefit-cost
ratio. PAAR's very positive impact on national forest land and timber value in Yoro was found to extend over a
wide range of price levels and interest rates. Give the similarities between these three areas we anticipate no major
departures from the previous results obtained in Yoro. In fact, we anticipate even higher returns. The experience
now exists to execute selected tasks with greater speed and efficiency. There not only exists a cadre of well-trained
PAAR and COHDEFOR personnel but a much improved level of communication and coordination between their
respective offices in Tegucigalpa. Given a benefit-cost ratio of 11.9 for PAAR's work in Yoro, the similarities
between these three forest management areas, and the wealth of experience gained, the same results should be fully
expected in Olancho and Francisco Morazán.

b) Fund for Upland Producers
The Fund for Upland Producers (FPL) provided funds for technical assistance and training to support agriculture,
forestry and livestock subprojects for households of rural poor in marginal areas. The sub-component reached
about 9,800 peasant families, exceeding significantly the target of 6,500 families specified in the project SAR. The
achievement can be seen not only in the quantitative results, but also in the improvement of the extension
mechanism, by which contracts with service providers are established to provide technical assistance to poor
farmers. The mechanism is based on the effective, efficient and transparent provision of services to farmers.
Service providers were mainly local NGOs and private firms. One of the most important aspects was the
development of an evaluation system to monitor the results of extension activities and feedback service providers.
These providers were made responsible for completing the required services when they failed to achieve the agreed
results. This approach assured that farmers obtained standard services from the providers and increased the
credibility of the project.

The evaluation of the FPL was carried out across a random selection of subprojects having completed an entire
three year cycle. Data was used from 44 communities or 18% of all communities that have completed 3 years in
the program. Activities analyzed included: improved agricultural practices for maize, beans, rice, coffee,
vegetables, and fruits; crop diversification; forest tree nurseries; reforestation; forest management; planting shade
for coffee; establishing improved pastures, forage pastures for hay, and drinking troughs; animal health and
nutrition; soil and moisture conservation grass barriers, hillside ditches, stone walls, and individual terraces; cover
crops and minimal tillage; crop residue management, and contour planting; improved cook stoves; home gardens;
livestock management (pigs, chickens, and fish); metallic silos for grain storage; and latrines. Qualitative analysis
was also carried out to estimate "client satisfaction" and perception of value of the subprojects and services
received. The analysis of the improved menu focused on forestry activities in national forests (productive pine
forest management, community usufruct contracts for timber and firewood, and resin tapping) and on crop
production and agroforestry systems on-farm (sustainable basic grain production, shade coffee with timber species
for shade, improved smallholder crop production of basic grains and coffee, and household agroforestry models ­
(i) basic grains, coffee, posts, firewood, rafters and beams, Cordia aliodora poles and timber; and (ii) basic grains
and coffee; and basic grains, coffee, resin, timber).




                                                          - 29 -

Benefit-cost ratios were computed using discount rates of 5% and 10%, respectively. Internal rates of return were
also calculated.

The outcomes and indicators analysis looked at the impacts over project life. To complete the outcomes and
indicator analyses, interviews with PSTs and farm communities were conducted in June 2003. Fifty percent of the
communities in the 16 identified subprojects were randomly selected for interview (or 25% of all communities that
have completed 3 years in the program). Communities were asked about the net benefits associated with the
improved practices taught by the PST in the extension program (crops, livestock, forestry, soil conservation, and
home improvement). The farmers from a given community were gathered together for a group interview (typically
10 to 15 farmers). To obtain cost data, separate interviews were conducted with the PSTs. PSTs were asked about
their allocation of effort among the five extension activities (crop production, forestry, livestock, soil conservation,
and family gardens and homes). The sum of these efforts must add to 100%. Since the amount of the total
contract was known, it was possible to allocate funds to extension activities. Communities were also asked
qualitative questions regarding their use of fallow land, length of rotations, their use of natural pasture versus
improved pasture, and other related questions to complete an indicator analysis. While the outcomes analysis was
focused on economic returns, the indicator analysis allowed for inferences to be made about the environment.

Overall, the FPL had a positive internal rate of return (IRR). The most successful extension activity was crop
production followed by family gardens and homes. Poor peasant farmers value improved income making
opportunities. Also, educational programs for the women (through the family gardens and homes initiative)
provide positive economic returns as well as social ones. IRRs for crop production ranged from 25% in Olancho to
35% in Yoro. The net benefits for forestry and livestock activities did not apparently generate positive economic
returns over the life of the project. For forestry, it would seem that the marginal results were due to an ineffective
approach such that the returns for the types of activities promoted (primarily forest tree nurseries and reforestation)
were too far in the future to have importance to these poor farmers. For livestock, few project farmers maintained
livestock and the income from these did not justify the expense. The evaluation of soil conservation was mixed
with low, but positive IRRs in Yoro (5%) and negative ones in Olancho. It is important to note that the
environmental benefits accruing from these activities were not included in this estimate, thus the IRR is lower than
actual should environmental benefits have been taken into account.

As a pilot therefore, the FPL has provided important lessons as to changes in focus and improvements required
under in order to improve impacts, these include: more focus on micro-irrigation, agroforestry (forestry combined
with crop production through inter-planting and other technologies), natural forest management for (pine) timber
and non-timber products, marketing and commercialization linkages, and, where possible, value-added production.
Based on the experience of the FPL, the analysis shows that for an improved menu of subprojects (agroforestry,
improved marketing, etc.) the returns are high. For individual agro-forestry models, returns ranged from 34% to
41%. Given these (and based on assumptions of differing mixes of activities) the ERR for the component is at
minimum 20%.

Household-level impacts of the FPL were also evaluated. In FPL, the primary extension focus giving the best
results was on improving cropping systems to increase income and reduce environmental damage (e.g., soil
erosion). Improved cropping systems in FPL included better management of the traditional corn and beans and
corn (two levels of improvement) and the introduction of corn with a mucuna (leguminous) cover crop. A similar
process was followed with coffee. In analyzing these, variable adoption rates of these improved technologies were
considered. Based on observations, assumptions were made regarding "good" adoption rates and "modest"
adoption rates for different levels of management of the cropping systems (modest adoption, good adoption) versus
"traditional" (without project) management. A further variable was added concerning price outlook, i.e., changing
market prices resulting in income being reduced by 10%. Costs and returns for the cropping systems were
calculated for these different alternatives at the village level and assumed to last for 20 years. The costs of the FPL
extension program were based on 3 year subprojects. Net present values were calculated and compared. The
benefit-cost ratio is significantly greater than one for all scenarios except for the modest incomes (from 10%
reduction in market process) and modest adoption scenario. This highlights the importance of achieving good
adoption rates (i.e., effective farm educational programs), marketing and commercialization support and
value-added production where feasible to overcome possible turn downs in prices.


                                                           - 30 -

From a household perspective, significant improvements to family income were achieved by changing to improved
practices from traditional production practices. A previous analysis of the FPL, reported in the Borrower's draft
Implementation Completion Report, estimated that on average households participating in the FPL increased their
incomes by 57%, from $670 per year to $1,050 per year. This analysis found:
l   That with reasonable market price expectations (good incomes) and a good adoption rate, the benefit/cost ratio
    was 1.4 (NPV = $1,435/family) and with modest adoption rates the benefit/cost ratio was 1.3 (NPV=$1,098).
l   That for farmers moving from a traditional corn and beans production system to the improved production
    system, returns to labor almost tripled (from L35 per day to L99 per day).
l   That the vulnerability of households to market price reductions is demonstrated by the worst case scenario
    where adoption rates are modest and income is reduced by 10% (modest income). Under this scenario, the
    benefit/cost ratio drops below one.
l   That the returns from the typical agroforestry models were estimated to range from 34% to 41% with
    benefit/cost ratios from 1.8 to 2.0 and NPVs averaging more than $2,650. Forestry activities such as
    community usufruct contracts in national forests for small-scale logging, firewood, and resin tapping also
    showed positive results. These activities profitability however are strongly influenced by transport costs and
    any usufruct fees or administration charges that might be levied by the State Forest Agency.

Results from Indicator Analysis.      Based on interviews with communities, other positive outcomes associated
with the FPL (particularly in terms of providing insights into environmental benefits) were:
l   Farmers are making better use of their land.    In the average community the amount of land under crop
    production in community declined by 21% during the life of the project. Farmers are either being more
    productive on existing land or changing their cropping patterns to a more intensive use of the land with high
    value crops such as vegetables and fruits. Consistent with this observation, the amount of fallow land
    increased by 52% and the length of time it was rested ­ increased from 1.5 years to 2.6 years.
l   Practice of soil conservation practices was successfully introduced by 2003 compared 2000 when soil
    conservation practices were essentially unknown/not applied by the project communities.
l   Slash and burn agricultural practices substantially decreased with the number of farmers in the average
    community practicing slash and burn agriculture decreasing by over 60% in project communities.
l   The use of natural pastures in the average community decreased by 41% and the use of improved pastures
    increased by over 650% (from an average of 1.4ha/community to 10.6ha/community).

c) Biodiversity Conservation
The main objective of the sub-component was to strengthen the National System of Protected Areas of Honduras
(SINAPH), in particular to increase the implementing capacity of the Department of Protected Areas and Wildlife
(DAPVS) in AFE-COHDEFOR. The activities were carried out in collaboration with the Project for Diversity
(PROBAP) financed by GEF.

The project strengthened 8 protected areas in 3 Departments (Francisco Morazán, Yoro y Olancho). The map of
the Country Ecosystem was produced following the UNESCO classification. This allowed the strengthening of
SINAPH and the restructuring of the protected area system regrouping 107 protected areas. The project supported
the development of the new forest law; several documents were produced to assist in the discussion of the protected
area and wildlife issues. Most of these benefits are no quantifiable and no attempt to estimate the economic rate of
return was made.




                                                        - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/05/1994                7    TEAM LEADER (1);
              (under separate                WATERSHED TA (1); SOCIAL
              TORs)                          ASPECTS (1); LAND TENURE
                                             (1); FORESTRY (1);
                                             INDIGENOUS PEOPLES (1);
                                             TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              05/30/1995                7    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             WATERSHED TA (1); SOCIAL
                                             ASPECTS (1); LAND TENURE
                                             (1); FORESTRY (1);
                                             INDIGENOUS PEOPLES (1);
                                             PROJECT PREPARATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/22/1996                6    TEAM LEADER (1);
              under separate                 LEGAL COUNSEL (1);
              TORs                           PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             RUTA/UTN (2);
                                             WATERSHED TA (1)
              12/12/1996              12     GOV. REP. (5); RUTA/UTN (2);
                                             TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             WATERSHED TA (1);
                                             LAWYER (1); FINANCIAL (1)
              06/22/2001                8    GOV.REP. (4); UTN (1); TEAM
              Negotiations of                LEADER (1); LAWYER (1);
              Supplemental                   WATERSHED TA (1);
              Credit PAAR                    FINANCIAL (1)

 Supervision
              07/17/2003                1    FINANCIAL                        S               S
                                             MANAGEMENT
              10/30/1997                6    TEAM LEADER (1);                 HS             HS
                                             WATERSHED TA (1); SOCIAL
                                             ASPECTS (1); LAND TENURE
                                             (1); FORESTRY (1);
                                             INDIGENOUS PEOPLES (1)
              03/04/1998                5    TEAM LEADER (1);                 HS             HS
                                             FORESTRY (1); LAND
                                             TENURE (1); INDIGENOUS
                                             PEOPLES (1);
                                             ADMINISTRATION (1)
              06/03/1998                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S              HS



                                              - 32 -

                 FORESTRY SPECIALIST (1);
                 LAND FUND TEAM LEADER
                 (1); LAND FUND SPECIALIST
                 (1)
11/21/1998    4  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S    HS
                 NRM SPECIALIST (1); LAND
                 SPECIALIST (1);
                 AGRICULTURAL
                 ECONOMIST (1)
11/22/1998    9  TASK MANAGER (1);             S    HS
                 FINANCIAL ADMIN (1);
                 BIODIVERSITY SPEC (1);
                 PARTICIPATION SPEC (1);
                 LAND ADMIN SPEC (1);
                 ECONOMIST (1); SOCIAL
                 ECONOMIST (1); FORESTRY
                 SPEC (1); AG EXTENSION
                 SPEC (1)
07/30/1999    9  FORESTRY SPECIALIST (1);      S    S
                 TEAM LEADER (1); LAND
                 SPECIALIST (1);
                 WATERSHEDS SPECIALIST
                 (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                 (1); BIOLOGIST (1);
                 FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                 RESOURCE ECONOMIST (1);
                 INDIGENOUS SPECIALIST (1)
01/24/2000    9  TASK MANAGER (1);             S    S
                 BIODIVERSITY SPECIALIS
                 (1); NRM ECONOMIST (1),
                 LAND INFORMATION (1);
                 INDIDENOUS SPECIALIST
                 (1); SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                 (1); RUTA/UTN (2); NATURAL
                 RESOURCES (1)
04/07/2000    3  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S    S
                 LAND SPECIALIST (1);
                 ANTHROPOLOGIST (1)
07/19/1999    2  FORESTER (1); UTN (1)         S    S
                                               S    S
07/09/2000    16 TTL (1);                      S    S
Mid Term         INDIGENOUS/SOCIAL (2);
                 RURAL DEVELOPMENT (1);
                 LEGAL (1); LAND SPEC. (2);
                 BIODIVERSITY (1);
                 WATERSHED TA (1);
                 ENVIRONMENT/SAFEGUARD
                 S (1);OPERATIONS (1); TEAM
                 ASSISTANT (1);
                 PROCUREMENT (1);
                 OPERATIONAL ANAYST (1);
                 FORESTRY (1); PROTECTED
                 AREAS (1)



                 - 33 -

               02/20/2001                2   TTL (1) WATERSHED TA (1)           S    S
               05/23/2001                4   TTL (1) LAND (2);                  S    S
                                             INDIGENOUS (1);
               06/11/2001                2   GENDER (1); RUTA (1)               S    S
               08/2001                   1   BIODIVERSITY                       S    S
               01/15/2002                7   TTL (2); SECTOR LIDER (1);         S    S
               Transfer of                   LAND (1); RRNN (1); TEAM
               Responsibilities              ASSISTANTS (2)
               08/19/2002                9   TTL (1); LAND LEGAL (1);           S    S
                                             OPERATIONAL ANALYST (1);
                                             AGRIC.SPECIALIST (1);
                                             INDIGENOUS/SOCIAL (2);
                                             PROJECT ASSISTANT (1);
                                             LAND SPECIALIST (1);
                                             SAFEGUARDS (1)
               11/2002 under             2   FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT               S    S
               separate TORs                 (2)
               05/08/2003                7   TTL (1);                           S    S
                                             OPERATIONS/PROCUREMEN
                                             T (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1); BIODIVERSITY (1);
                                             NRM/SOCIAL (1);
                                             SOCIAL/INDIGENOUS (1)

 ICR
               06/12/2004               1     NRM SPECIALIST/FAO                S    S
                                              (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                   No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             240.0                         741.10
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   48.3                         144.98
  Supervision                            177.4                         900.52
  ICR                                    10.00                          16.00
  Total                                  525.7                       1,702.60




                                              - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Borrower's ICR: Informe Final de Implementación ­ Proyecto de Administración de Areas Rurales (PAAR)
2. PAAR-SAR: Staff Appraisal Report ­ Rural Land Management Project, February 28, 1997
3. PATH-Project Appraisal Document ­ Land Administration Project, January 22, 2004
4. PBPR-Project Appraisal Document ­ Forests and Rural Productivity Project, June 16, 2004
5. Development Credit Agreement, June 10, 1997 (Amended April 29, 1999, November 27, 2000, November 22,
2001, March 15, 2002)
6. Quality Assistance Group, 1996, Final Report: Pre-Approval Quality at Entry Assessment, Honduras Natural
Resources Management and Land Administration Project
7. Supervision Mission Aide Memoires and PSRs
8. Annual Reports 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002
9. Trackman, B., Fisher, W., and Salas, L. 1999, The Reform of Property Registration Systems in Honduras: A
Status Report, Harvard Institute for International Development
10. Consejo Hondureño de la Empresa Privada (COHEP) y Instituto Libertad y Democracia (ILD), 2001, Activos
Prediales y Empresariales Extralegales en Honduras
11. PAAR ­ Análisis Económico y Financiero, draft paper
12. Greulich , F. E. and Schreuder, G. F., PAAR, Economic Analysis of Forest Management Activities, University
of Washington, Seattle, Washington
13. Economic Evaluation of the Fondo para Productores de Ladera in Honduras, Jim Hanson
14. Farm models using FARMOD software developed by Juan Morelli, Consultant for the FAO-WB Cooperative
Programme in 2003.
15. Collion, Marie-Helene. 2002. Introduction to revitalization within public sector services. In Extension
Reform for Rural Development: Case Studies of International Initiatives. William Rivera and Gary Alex (editors).
The World Bank. Rural Development Family. SASKI. October 15, 2002.
16. Rivera, William and Gary Alex (editors). 2002. Extension Reform for Rural Development: Case Studies of
International Initiatives. The World Bank. Rural Development Family. SASKI. October 15, 2002.
17. Rivera, William and Willem Zijp. 2002. Contracting for Agricultural Extension: International Case Studies
and Emerging Practices. CABI Publishing, CAB International, Oxon, United Kingdom.
18. Davis, L.S. and K.N Johnson. 1987. Forest Management, 3rd ed. McGraw-Hill, N.Y., N.Y.
19. Flores, José and Santiago Ruíz. 1997. Manejo forestal: conceptos generales, rentabilidad en los bosques de
pino de Honduras e impactos de política en su implementación. PRODEPAH. USAID Contract No.
522-0325-C-00-3298. Tegucigalpa, Honduras.




                                                       - 37 -

- 38 -

