HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT AND PARTICIPATION PLAN
OBJECTIVES
1.    A social assessment was carried out as part of project preparation with the
following objectives: (a) to evaluate existing patterns of resource ownership,
management and use among different groups and institutions in the project area; (b) to
identify stake-holders who should be involved in preparation and implementation and to
obtain their inputs on project scope and design; (c) to identify potentially negative
impacts of proposed activities on vulnerable groups in the population, including women
and indigenous groups, and design measures to prevent or mitigate these impacts; and
(d) to identify opportunities to build local capacity of NGOs, producer and traditional
organizations and local government to plan and carry out project activities. A
Participation Action Plan was prepared as one product of that social assessment. This
annex summarizes the findings of the social assessment and the recommendations that
have been included in the Participation Action Plan. This includes findings and
recommendations on indigenous peoples and gender concerns and a matrix extracting
costs of activities related to participation and incorporation of special interest groups
from the overall cost tables.
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT PROCESS
2.    The social assessment included: (a) analysis of the stake-holders in the land
administration and natural resources sector; (b) a participatory rural appraisal of
representative communities in the Natural Resources Management component area by a
multi-disciplinary team; (c) analysis of an extensive secondary literature on social impacts
of the land titling program; (d) meetings with NGOs working with upland farmers and
forest producers throughout the country; (e) meetings with members of the national
indigenous federation and with traditional leaders, including indigenous leaders, in the
project area; and (f) a workshop with women's organizations to elicit their views on
project design. An international gender specialist and two international indigenous/social
specialists participated in preparation to oversee in-country work on these aspects of
project design. Because there would not be significant potentially negative impacts on
indigenous groups, no separate Indigenous Peoples Development Plan was prepared, but
instead the activities related to indigenous peoples development have been described
within the overall plan of participation.



*                                                                              V
2                               a
PROFILE OF PROJECT BENEFICIARIES AND LOCAL ORGANIZATIONS
POPULATION IN THE UPLANDS AND THE PROJECT AREA
3.    There are, according to the 1993 agricultural census, 237,863 farm families with
less than 10 hectare covering 587,576 hectares of land and 227,642 farms of less than 5
hectares with 384,078 hectares in Honduras. Most of the farmers with less than 5
hectares are found in the marginal uplands. Families with less than 10 hectares farm
17.6% of all agricultural holdings in the country, and comprise 54.3% of the population.
These small holders produce mainly white maize, beans, a creole variety sorghum
(maicillo), and rice. Maize is produced by 75 % of small-scale farmers and beans by a
third. Sorghum is produced by 52% of farmers in the south and is used primarily as cattle
feed. There is little reliable data on the extent of cattle pasture, but it is extensive-- 1993
census figures are 1.5 million hectares under pasture while extrapolations from 1991
regional data estimate 2.6 million hectares under pasture. In comparison to other Central
American countries, the cattle expansion phase began later and continued after political
conflicts had checked expansion in neighboring countries.
4.    Many of the upland farmers cultivate land classified as part of the public forest
estate. As described in Annex B, Land Administration Component, farmers cultivating
lands classified as public are eligible for title should the land be judged of agricultural
vocation. All other lands are classified as forest vocation and can be cultivated through
usufruct, but not titled. The main forested areas of the north and west are the agricultural
frontier. Many of the upland farmers in this area migrated from poorer regions in the
south and east or moved into the hilly areas after selling their plots to cattle ranchers.
Since 1982, Honduras has had an active land titling program to give title to smallholders
settled on agricultural lands within the public estate. Through this program, 77,000 titles
have been given for about 660,000 hectares. In addition, some cooperatives were given
titles, but by 1993 only 993 of these remained with 144,697 hectares, mostly in the
valleys. Most of the former cooperative members are seeking individual titles from INA.
The number of farm families still without title is estimated to be around 200,000 of which
about one half would not qualify for title since their holding is less than 1 hectare or
classified as urban areas. The first phase of the land administration pilot in 15
municipalities alone is predicted to identify 6,000 farms eligible for title.
5.    The small-farmer population in the 14 public forest management field unit
boundaries of the three Departments included in the project area--Yoro, Olancho and San
Francisco Morazon--is 14,775 families. These are the majority of families in the project
area. While land holding figures are not available for the upland areas of these
Departments, more than 95% of the families in the rapid rural appraisal communities
were small-holders with less than 2.5 has. and the majority had some land holdings in
addition to their homesteads, however marginal. Most did not have title to their
agricultural holdings. Apart from limited mid and larger sized farmers in the valleys and
some uplands of the project Departments, therefore, the large majority of the upland
farmers are small, subsistence farmers with marginal holdings, both in size and quality.
The upland fund would provide support to landed farmers in agriculture and agro-



3
forestry and to landless residents in municipal or social forestry initiatives on ejido and
public lands.
INDIGENOUS PEOPLE
6.   In Honduras, the indigenous population (including black Caribbean communities)
is organized in eight separate indigenous groups, numbering about 293,000 inhabitants
and comprising 12.8 percent of the total population (1988 Census). Membership to a
specific group is determined by language affiliation. The eight groups and their location
are the following:
* Lenca in the La Paz; Intibuca; Lempira and Santa Barbara Departments, with
100,000 inhabitants
*  Xicaques or Tolupanes, with 28 tribes distributed in 6 municipalities of
Yoro Department; and 19,300 people in Orica and Marales of Francisco
Morazan Department.
*  Garifuna or "caribes negros" in Cortez; Atlantida; Col6n; Gracias a Dios and
Islas de la Bahia, with a estimated population of 98,000 inhabitants,
distributed in 38 communities
*  Miskitos, in Gracias a Dios Department with about 49,000 inhabitants,
distributed in 107 communities
*  Pech or Paya, distributed in the Dulce, Nombre de Culmi and San Esteban
municipalities in the Olancho Department; and Brus Laguna in the Gracias a
Dios Department with 2,600 inhabitants
*  Tawahka or Sumus, with 900 inhabitants in 7 communities along the Rio
Patuca River
*  Chorti, in Copan and Ocotepeque Departments with about 4,200 inhabitants.
*  Islefios or Black Population with a distinct language found in the Litoral
Atlantico in the Ceiba, Tela, Puerto Cortez and the Islas de la Bahia with
about 20,000 inhabitants
7.   In the area of influence of the natural resources component there are 16,800
indigenous people, making up 21 percent of the total population of the area. In addition,
the protected areas component would strengthen staffing in the Mosquitia Region to
complement the proposed GEF project under preparation. The protected area in this
region includes a significant portion of the 49,000 Miskitos and Tawahkas distributed in
107 communities. While there are no indigenous populations in the pilot areas of the land



4
administration component of Comayagua and Siguatepeque, Olancho--programmed for
year 2 of the project--includes Tawahka, Pech, and Garifuna.
INDIGENOUS ORGANIZATIONS
8.  Indigenous organizations in general combine elements of their traditional culture
with those of the non-indigenous society, including economic strategies, politico-
administrative aspects and religious factors. The levels of organizations go from the
community (village, township) to tribal and regional ethnic organizations. Particularly in
recent times, the lower level organizations have formed federations at the ethnic level.
Nevertheless, these organizations are still fairly weak and vulnerable to outside factors.
The relative weakness affects the federations' capacity to carry out effective actions in
favor of their members and this in turn makes them more susceptible to criticism.
The Lenca people are represented by the Organizaci6n Indigena Lenca de
Honduras (ONILH), formed by the Consejos Indigenas Locales (Indigenous
Councils at the municipal level) and the Consejo Indigena Departmental
(Indigenous Council at the departmental level). This organization is still in
process of formation and has only 4,000 members, belonging to 36
communities.
-  The Tolupanes are represented by the Federaci6n de Tribus Xicaques de
Yoro (FETRIXY), whose first-tier organizations are the Asambleas de
Tribus (Tribes Assemblies), Congreso de Tribus (Tribal Congress), Consejo
Directivo (Board of Directors) and Comite Ejecutivo (Executive Committee).
*  The Pech have organized at national level in the Federaci6n de Tribus Pech
de Honduras (FETRIPH), following the Tolupanes model.
*  The Misquitos are represented by the Mosquitia-Asla Takanka - Unidad
de la Mosquitia (MASTA). This in turn is formed by seven federations. In
reality, the organization of the Misquitos is very loose. Alliances are not
permanent, usually involving geographic or commercial interests under the
leadership of a Zuqia or Tribal Chief.
*  The Chorti are not organized at the national level. This is one specific case of
a population who have been heavily acculturated and largely become
campesinos.
*  The Garifunas are represented by the Organizaci6n Fraternal Negra
Hondurefia (OFRANEH), although its degree of representation is weak.
*  The Tawahka have organized the Federaci6n Indigena Tawahka of
Honduras (FITH), but it is also in the process of consolidation.



5
9.    Since 1992, all of the above indigenous organizations and peoples, except for the
Chorti and Islefios, are members of a national level organization, the Coordinadora
Nacional de Pueblos Aut6ctonos de Honduras (CONPAH).
NON-INDIGENOUS POPULATION
10.  In the area of influence of the Natural Resources Management component, non-
indigenous groups represent 66,200 inhabitants, or 79 percent of the total population.
The relevant forms of organization are based on productive activities and upon
geographical coverage and include: (a) Productive Cooperatives at the first-tier level of
organization, in general based at community level; (b) Patronatos; with local level
community base organization and no juridical recognition; (c) Municipalities; at the
municipal or lowest level of formal government organization; (d) Agro-forestry
Federations as second-tier productive organizations; and (e) Confederations or third-tier
organizations. Coffee is an important cash crop in the uplands and farmers' cooperatives
are strongly linked to the Honduran Coffee Institute's program of research and extension.
The first- and second-tier organizations in Honduras are beginning to mature as strong,
independent entities, rather than serving as in the past as a relatively weak entity within
stronger top-down federations.
11.  There is also a number of NGOs which work in the project area with upland
farmers and forestry organizations providing rural development assistance and capacity
building, which are described in Annex D. Some of the more national NGOs have begun
to work with first and second-tier organizations to develop their capacity to deliver
development assistance. The unique feature of the more successful NGOs is the use of a
farmer-to-farmer extension methodology, whereby interested farmers are trained in the
basic principles of a new practice and encouraged to experiment in adapting the practice
to their own farm and in transferring the knowledge of basic principles to other
interested farmers. The system of information transfer which results is self-sustaining
and usually leads to adoption of practices which are appropriate to the farmers' needs
and resources. The large majority of farmers in the uplands are not linked to formal
credit institutions and, even in the informal sector, the main source of capital is
household savings. A few NGOs, such as FINCA-Honduras or World Relief, have
established savings mobilization programs to organize farmers' groups for informal
credit networks. There is a considerable potential for such mobilization, particularly
with rural women.
12. For the Land Administration Modernization component the estimated population
is 1,679,042 inhabitants spread over 46,640.9 km2 in the Departments of Comayagua,
Cortes, Yoro and Olancho.
KEY ISSUES FOR PARTICIPATION AND ACTION PLANS
13.  The social assessment has identified a number of key issues which have been
addressed in project design, as described below:



6
(a)   Land and Forest Tenure. For indigenous populations, there are
constraints to registration of indigenous land and forest rights under the
folio real, due to the lack of legal identify of most of the first-tier
indigenous community organizations that comprise ethnic federations and
to the overlapping of traditional indigenous areas of influence and private
land holdings established during the colonial and post-colonial period by
hispanic families. Currently, under the Land Reform Law and the
Agricultural Modernization Law, indigenous groups can elect either to
receive individual or communal title to lands within traditional, indigenous
territories. As in other countries of Latin America, Honduran indigenous
groups are increasingly electing the communal title option to help preserve
tenure to traditional territories. Communal title also has implications for
forest tenure as indigenous populations are more likely to legitimate title
to forest areas within their territories when their entire domain is titled
communally. Otherwise such areas are considered national forests owned
by the State.
Recommended Action: There are several ways in which the Land
Administration component would address indigenous tenure issues. The
initial land adjudication in Comayagua does not affect indigenous
populations, but the land and forest tenure issues would be explored by
indigenous groups under the IDF grant currently being processed. It is
expected that concrete recommendations would emerge from the IDF-
funded activities which can be used to modify the pilot approach, as
needed. As the adjudication process is extended to Olancho and Yoro,
both with indigenous populations, the system would be modified to
address these issues. Teams of INA promoters involved in the
adjudication process would also receive special orientation and training.
If requested, indigenous groups can also be provided legal assistance and
training to establish the legal identify of first-tier organizations seeking
separate forest rights or communal tenure at a more appropriate level.
The associated GEF project would have more specific actions on the
demarcation of protected areas and adjudication of indigenous rights to
forest areas within protected areas and surrounding buffer zones.
(b)   Role of Traditional Organizations and Farmers' Groups. The role of
indigenous traditional organizations and of productive organizations has
not been effectively analyzed in SAG programs in the past, with the result
that participation has often been focused on leaders of federations who do
not represent the first-tier organizations adequately. Nor is there a
transparent process for consultation of these organizations by the
municipal authorities in local development initiatives.
Recommended Action: This issue has been explored in project design
and productive organizations have been consulted at various stages in the
design of the natural resources and upland fund components by DICTA,



7
AFE-COHDEFOR, and UPEG. Training and orientation activities
coordinated by the PCU are planned for the implementation of these two
components on indigenous political organization and opportunities for
broader participation and on consultation with farmers' groups interested
in preparing proposals or seeking assistance from appropriate NGOs.
NGOs are also eligible to include requests in their proposals for technical
assistance funds to build capacity of first- and second-tier organizations to
develop their own research and extension packages. In the development
of management strategies for ejido forests under municipal jurisdiction,
AFE-COHDEFOR extension staff and consultants would ensure the
consultation process explores the potential role of a wide range of local
organizations. To ensure wider participation in the Upland Fund, criteria
and procedures have been designed to be transparent and relatively simple.
These criteria would be evaluated at mid-term and adjusted based on this
evaluation.
(c)   Forest Management and Use. Except for the pilot initiatives in smaller
blocks of forest, such as those implemented with Canadian and Finnish
assistance, there has not been a systematic process of determining the
relative rights and interests of communities residing in and around forest
areas or for allocating use rights for traditional or new products. Nor
have these populations benefited from economic analysis of the relative
returns from different management strategies, whether management of
small blocks by cooperative groups or management on a more commercial
scale to attract larger, private harvesting and processing enterprises and
local employment.
Recommended Action: The Natural Resources Management component
defines a process for incorporating local populations in the design and
implementation of forest master plans for the forestry and protected areas
included in the project. This process would be refined, based on overall
criteria agreed during preparation, through a work program under the
general direction of the PCU and involving the extension wing of AFE-
COHDEFOR and the parks department. The Upland Fund would finance
proposals for support to municipalities and cooperative groups seeking to
develop forest management and forest enterprise capacity, as well as
provide technical assistance and training to upland residents seeking wider
employment in forestry enterprises, both formal and informal. A system of
consultation would be built into forest management plans to ensure
updating of management plans through a participatory process involving
relevant stake-holders.
(d)  Participation in Decision-Making and Implementation. The
participatory rural appraisal identified a number of constraints to
participation the design of government programs and their
implementation, including the lack of knowledge of government activities



8
by more remote upland populations, the lack of formal property rights of
upland inhabitants which excluded them from many programs, and the
lack of institutional and financial capacity of municipal offices to design
and implement long-term development programs.
Recommended Action: The project would include a system of
participatory monitoring and evaluation that includes the project
beneficiaries and their local organizations in the periodic evaluation of the
success of project activities and would include orientation and training of
beneficiaries in the design of M&E indicators and tools that enable them
to express their opinions about the progress of the project. In particular,
the consultant firm (Fund Manager) eliciting and evaluating proposals for
the Upland Fund would train beneficiaries or work with participating
NGOs to train beneficiaries in these methods and channel conclusions to
the Advisory Committee. Forest master plan s would also be monitored by
local communities and municipal authorities.
(e)   Project Management Capacity to Implement Participation Plan.
There is little social science or participatory planning and implementation
expertise in UPEG or the various departments within AFE-COHDEFOR
or DICTA that would ensure a comprehensive vision for implementing the
Participation Plan or provide guidance to implementing staff of other
disciplines. While INA has considerable experience with field adjudication
of land tenure rights, there is no central office responsible for indigenous
policy, apart from some attention to the issues by one of the legal
specialists. Nor is there a clear responsibility for gender or indigenous
issues within SAG for longer-term sustainability of activities.
Recommended Action. SAG would contract a specialist in social and
participation issues for the PCU who would oversee incorporation of
these issues into the project components, implementation of the elements
of the participation plan, and supervision of consultants contracted to
undertake special studies or specific participation or consultation
activities. This specialist would also work with UPEG/UPEG, advising
the unit on how best to coordinate attention to these issues within SAG
and suggesting staffing needs. AFE-COHDEFOR plans to strengthen the
capacity of the Promotion and Extension Department and to work with
the newly created Center for Training and Research on Environment and
Sustainable Forestry Development in Lapaterique on training of
indigenous organizations. The Division of Legal Services in INA plans to
develop a strategy for addressing indigenous tenure issues in the land
adjudication process, which would be discussed with indigenous
organizations.
(f)    Gender Considerations. The difference in access to land and agricultural
and forestry production support services between men and women, has a



9
relevant impact on the economy of rural households and reduces rural
development opportunities. Though women represent an important group
among rural producers, they have received minimum benefits from the
land titling program or from agriculture or forestry services. While more
women are receiving land titles since the Agricultural Modernization Law
recognized their land rights, many women in the project area reside in
areas of forest vocation that cannot be titled. There is also little titling of
couples, especially since common law marriages are not recognized as a
basis for joint land titling in the absence of onerous documentation.
Recommended Action: To address the overall lack of a gender
orientation in the activities of the SAG agencies involved in the project, a
program of gender training would be designed and implemented. This
training program would be targeted to all professional and technical
personnel of the public institutions responsible for the coordination and
implementation of the components, to private development organizations
and NGOs providing services in the rural areas, especially through the
Upland Producers' Fund. Both PDOs and NGOs would need to receive
training as a condition to be eligible to provide services, the cost of
training would be their responsibility. The program would be under the
PCU and would be implemented by the Pan-American Agricultural School
-_ El Zamorano -- where a permanent information network would be set
up for service training providers at national and Central American levels.
Training would be aimed to address specific detected needs of each
component. The criteria for selection of proposals for the Upland Fund
would also include preference for technical assistance targeted explicitly to
women farmers and forest managers. INA and CSJ have agreed to
evaluate the restrictions on joint titling of common law couples and to
present an action plan for increasing women's access to land. Project
performance indicators have also been included to measure progress on
the incorporation of gender concerns.
IDF FOR STRENGTHENING OF INDIGENOUS INSTrrUTIONS
14.  The IDF which has been identified for indigenous strengthening would provide
resources for capacity-building in a number of areas related to natural resources
management and land tenure. Indigenous groups seek training in local planning and
design of development initiatives, technical and business management tools to evaluate
their capacity to undertake forestry-based enterprises, tools for community forestry
management, including sites in and around protected areas, and training in legal aspects
of individual and communal land tenure systems to enable members to make more
educated decisions about the type of land tenure which would most benefit themselves
and their families. The outputs of the IDF would include building capacity of indigenous
groups to make proposals to the Upland Fund and to participate more pro-actively in
forest management and protected areas activities.



- e *



HONDURAS
RURAL LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS AND MANAGEMEENT PLAN
INTRODUCTION
1.    The proposed project is a pilot which would provide financing to: (a) modernize
the system of rural land titling and rural land registration; (b) strengthen Government's
forest administration agency, the Administraci6n Forestal del Estado-Corporaci6n
Hondurefia de Desarrollo Forestal (AFE), while incorporating surrounding populations in
forest and protected areas management and wise use; (c) establish a decentralized fund for
support to upland producers for agricultural, livestock and forest technology generation
and transfer; and (d) assist in prioritization of protected areas and protected area's
investments, providing infrastructure and participatory management for some key parks
and reserves, while promoting self-financing of the system. Among the project's central
goals is to increase the participation of municipalities, communities, and small farmers,
extending successful pilot experiences with locally financed and managed programs to
Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock (SAG) agencies. The project has been assigned to
Environmental Assessment Category B.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    The overall objective of the project is to increase the productivity and
environmental value of the forest and agricultural resource base. The project continues
support of the natural resource management and land administration activities initiated in
the AGSAC, and expands its support to include modemization of the land registry system,
improve forest management, and technology generation and transfer to upland farmers
through actions in priority areas.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.    The project would have two complementary components:
4.    Land Administration - under this component the project would finance
equipment for mapping, surveying, and management information systems, staff and
operating costs; consultant services; technical assistance and training for:
(a)   pilot implementation of a modem land registry system at municipal level
based on a folio real;
(b)   cadastral activities;
(c)   land adjudication and titling in priority natural resource management areas;
and



2
(d)   support for conflict resolution.
5.    These four subcomponents aim to gradually transform the traditional, personal
registry system to a parcel-based system, while supporting cadastral and titling activities
in priority areas through the National Agrarian Institute (INA) and the national cadastre
(DEC). The component would also support the delimitation and rationalization of land
and forest rights on public and community lands within the project areas. Particular
support would be given to the regularization of three type of farmers: small-scale farmers
without title who settled on national lands before the passage of the AML in 1992;
indigenous peoples; and groups of farmers interested in social forestry and conservation
activities on public forest lands in their vicinity. A pilot land registry modernization
program would be undertaken in 16 municipalities of the department of Comayagua to
test the methodology and institutional working arrangements.
6.    Natural Resource Management - under this component the project would
finance staff and operating costs; consultant services; equipment for computers, mapping,
and survey activities; vehicles; technical assistance and training, and infrastructure for:
(a)   Forest management.  Integrated forest management planning and plan
implementation in eleven public forest management units (unidades de
gesti6n) in three administrative forest regions, totaling about 5,450 km;in,
and institutional strengthening including:
(i)   forest land tenure - establishing a database/registry of public forest
lands; delimiting and marking public forest boundaries; carrying out
a census of occupants of public forest lands along with diagnostics
and analyses of traditional rights and uses of public forest lands by
occupants; initiating the process of formalizing traditional rights
and uses of occupants of public forest lands; and entering into legal
agreements (contratos de usufructo) with communities and groups
over their participation in the responsibilities and benefits of forest
management;
(ii)   public forest management - carrying out three regional, forest
sector enviromnental assessments; developing or revising eleven
forest management master plans; formalizing the master plans
through a process of public consultation; inventorying 298,500
hectares of forest; developing detailed management plans for
146,500 hectares of pine production forest; formalizing the detailed
management plans through a process of environmental assessment
and consultation with affected groups; implementation of
management in 146,500 hectares of pine production forest plans
(silvicultural treatments - 116,500 hectares and timber auctions -
30,000 hectares); implementing a forest protection program in
545,000 hectares of forest; rehabilitating 45 km of forest roads and;



3
developing and implementing 6 Protected Area plans in locally
important protected areas not covered by the Biodiversity
component,
(iii)  forest regulation and control - decentralizing administrative,
budgetary and monitoring functions for forest management to the
regional levels; assisting to improve agility and coverage of the
Department of Norms and Control as the entity responsible for
technical and environmental standards and compliance. See Box 1;
(iv)   applied forestry research - strengthening of AFE's permanent
sample plot program for monitoring distribution, growth, and
regenerative capacity of the commercial forest; and
(v)   institutional strengthening of AFE-COHDEFOR - providing
support to national and field level offices, upgrading of professional
skills of staff, improving systems of forest information and
monitoring, and technical assistance in developing new, more
detailed operational standards and guidelines for forest technical
and environmental aspects of forest management and regulations,
through logistic support (vehicles, office and field equipment,
rehabilitation of forest management unit offices, operational
expenses), training (in key areas for forest management and
administration), information systems (in order to systematize,
organize, provide access to biophysical and forestry sector
information necessary for planning and monitoring of forest
resources) and, technical assistance (in support of implementation
activities associated with forest land tenure, environmental
assessment, institutional decentralization and administration,
information systems, training, forest management, forestry research,
promotion and extension, forest regulatory policy, community
participation and public consultation, and legal advice).
(b)   Upland Producers Fund.  To finance proposals from producer
organizations, NGOs, and municipal governments including staff and
operating costs, consultant services, research, technical assistance, and
training for the generation and transfer of agriculture, livestock, and forest
technologies appropriate to upland areas. The Fund would provide a grant
window, independent of SAG, for channeling research and extension
activities to upland farmers and forest producers which include:
(i)   agriculture and forestry extension - providing financing for
extension, technical assistance and training to community groups
(6,500 households) in sustainable production systems for hillside
agriculture, livestock and natural forest management, and to



4
municipalities for management of ejido forests and of 22 municipal
microwatersheds;
(ii)   agriculture and forestry research - providing financing for applied
research in priority topic areas for sustainable hillside agriculture
and natural forest management;
(iii)  training - of professionals and university students in applied
research and application and extension of appropriate natural
resource management systems for uplands and natural forest; and
(iv)  technical assistance - in support of the institutional and technical
aspects of the funds implementation (monitoring, supervision, and
technical quality).
(c)   Biodiversity Conservation.  To finance staff and operating costs,
vehicles, infrastructure, research equipment, consultant services,
workshops, and training materials for:
(i)    management and protection of protected areas - within selected
forest blocks of national priority, including development of a Parks'
Guard system; delimitation of protected areas; infrastructure
development; management planning; and support to community
activities in buffer zones (to be financed by GEF through the
Upland Producers' Fund) which are compatible with biodiversity
conservation objectives.
(ii)   studies - of the traditional land uses within the protected areas and
the biodiversity values.
(iii)  development of mechanisms for self-financing - for the
protected areas system, and consultation on these mechanisms with
the National Committee on Biodiversity, the Natural Resources
and Environment Secretariat (SERNA), SAG, NGOs, and the
private sector.
(iv)   development of an improved biodiversity information base - as
part of the geographic information system being developed for use
by AFE as a tool of national resource management.
PROJECT AREA
7.    Natural resource management activities would be concentrated on important
forested areas in the Departments of Yoro, Olancho, Francisco Morazan and a small
portion of Atlantida (Olanchito, located administratively in the Yoro region), including the
adjacent uplands and priority watersheds, and additional areas of key biodiversity as



5
included under the Biodiversity Conservation subcomponent (to be determined). Land
administration modernization would be initiated in the Department of Comayagua, and
later extended to Cortes, San Francisco Morazan, Olancho, and Yoro.
TABLE 1. FORESTS IN PROJECT REGIONS
FOREST                                                          FOREST AREA
REGION       HOLDRJDGE LIFE ZONES            FOREST TYPE         (BY TYPE)
Francisco  * Humid Sub-tropical Moist Forest  * Pine             * 332,500 ha
Morazan  * Sub-humid Sub-tropical Dry    * Broadleaf              * 67,300 ha
Forest                       * Mixed Pine/Broadleaf    * 80,600 ha
* Humid Lower Montane Moist
Forest
Olancho   * Sub-humid Tropical Dry Forest   * Pine               * 480,300 ha
* Humid Sub-tropical Moist Forest  - Broadleaf         * 187,500 ha
- Per-humid Lower Montane Wet   * Mixed Pine/Broadleaf   - 390,000 ha
Forest
* Humid Tropical Moist Forest
Yoro      * Humid Tropical Moist Forest  * Pine                  * 129,300 ha
* Sub-humid Tropical Dry Forest   * Broadleaf          * 167,800 ha
* Humid Sub-tropical Moist Forest  * Mixed Pine/Broadleaf    . 49,500 ha
* Per-humid Lower Montane Wet
Forest
8.    The project area is characterized by climates ranging from sub-humid sub-tropical
(-1,000 mm rain yf ' ) to per-humid tropical (>>1,600mm yf 1) and mean annual
temperatures ranging from 160 (montane zones) to 240 C (lowlands). The principal
general soil groupings in the area include the udults, udalfs, and tropaquepts; the
predominate parent materials are limestones and metamorphic rocks of diverse
composition. In the specific project areas, all lands are classified (at 1:250,000) as Land
Use Capability Class IV (very severe limitations for cultivation requiring careful selection
of crop plants and application of soil conservation and management) and classes V
(unsuited to cultivation, suitable for improved pasture) to VII (unsuited to cultivation, use
restricted to range, wildlife or forest); though such classification should be taken as
indicative only given both the scale and the classification's being primarily developed for
temperate, mechanized agriculture. Pine forests predominate and the project units
comprise areas which are among the major timber production zones in the country; there
are some 1.5 million hectares of production forest with an estimated standing volume of
(very loose estimate) 93.6 million m3 of timber.
9.   In biodiversity terms, the value of the project area is reflected in its quantity of
protected areas (17 area, both declared and proposed). While "quantities of protected
areas" is obviously a rather poor proxy for defining biodiversity values, in fact there is
surprisingly little information on the genetic and species resources of the area. Within the
more than 5,000km2 of existing and proposed protected areas within the project area, the



6
most important from a national perspective are those in the Departments of Olancho and
Yoro.
10.   Based on recent work carried out by World Wildlife Fund and the World Bank
(Dinerstein, et al. 1995. A Conservation Assessment of the Terrestrial Ecoregions of Latin
America and the Caribbean), the project areas coincides with the following forest types
and ecoregions of interest.
TABLE 2. SOILS AND LAND USE IN PROJECT AREA
Forest L        Soil Utilization (/) n        Forest (%)         Intensi Pastur
ve      e
Mgmt. Unit      Over  Normal  Sub    Pine  Broadleaf Mixed   Ag.    (%)
San Esteban        60       33      33      40        15       10      15      20
Agua Fria          40 .   40        20      60                 10      20      10
Jocon              34       33      33      60                 10      10      20
Yoro               20       60      20      30                 10      40      20
Olanchito          60       20      20       15       15       20      25      25
Culni              25       50      25       10       60       5       15      10
Catacamas          30       50      20       5        50       5       20      20
Guaimaca            15      75      10      60        5        5       10      15
El Porvenir        30       60       10     30                 10      40      20
Talanga            40       40      20      50                 10      20      20
Morazan            45       45       10     45         ;       5       30      20
Source: AFE Department of Forest Management, based on maps of 1:250, 000. Map
data represents a series of sources, data reflective ofperiod 1990-93.
' "Forest management units" are administrative delineations which include all lands, i.e.
they are not strictly comprised of public lands or forest lands, rather their definition
encompasses both urban and rural zones and all lands public, private, ejido and communal.
/2 - "soil utilization" is a production-oriented concept, for purposes of environmental
analysis its utility derives from its definition of "over utilization" and "normal utilization"
as indicators of areas of degrading vs. potentially sustainable land uses and "sub
utilization" as a crude indicator of natural areas which may or may not be under
extensive uses (e.g., forest grazing, fuelwood collection, etc.).
(a)   Tropical Moist Broadleaf Forest, Central American montane forests -
these forests are considered endangered, bioregionally outstanding, and of
high priority for conservation at the regional-scale. Within the project area,
these types of forests are found primarily within the protected areas system;
some remnants might exist outside of the system in private lands. In 198?,
all remaining areas of forest above 1,800 meters elevation were gazetted
into the protected areas system; thus incorporating the remaining areas of



7
this type (tropical moist broadleaf montane forests) into the system. Table
3 details the main protected areas of interest in the project area. This forest
type would correspond with the "Per-humid Lower Montane Wet Forest"
and "Broadleaf Cloud Forest" in the table.
TABLE 3. PROTECTED AREAS OF HIGHEST NATIONAL IMPORTANCE IN PROJECT AREA
Forestry Project Forest Area          Dominant Forest Type
Protected Area   Region   Mgmt. Unit   '1                (after Holdridge)
Montania de Yoro,  Yoro    Yoro           180  Per-humid Lower Montane Wet Forest
National Park                                  (Broadleaf Cloud Forest & Mixed
Pine/Broadleaf)
Tawahka,          Olancho  Culmi          400  Humid Tropical Moist Forest
Biological Reserve
Rio Platano       Olancho  Culmi,         1,000 Humid Tropical Moist Forest
Biosphere Reserve          Catacamas
Patuca, National   Olancho  Catacamnas    600  Humid Tropical Moist Forest
P ark_ _              _ __ _                       _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _  _
Sierra de Agalta,   Olancho  Sn Esteban,    624  Per-humid Lower Montane Wet Forest
National Park              Culmi,              (Broadleaf Cloud Forest & Mixed
Catacamas           Pine/Broadleafl
Pico Bonito,      Olancho, Olanchito      1,125 Humid Tropical Moist Forest & Humid Sub-
National Park     Atlantida l    -              tropical Moist Forest (Pine)
Pico Pijol, National Yoro  Morazan        155  Per-humid Lower Montane Wet Forest
Park (of mod.                                  (Broadleaf Cloud Forest & Mixed
import.)                                        Pine/Broadleaf)
Xl - The figures given here represent the total areas of the individual protected areas. Most
of these, however, lie within more than one forest management unit. Of the 4,084 km2
reported here, plus the more than 1,000 km2 of other protected areas not reported here
(being of low priority), only about 20% or 1,000 km2 actually is within the project area.
(b)   Tropical Moist Broadleaf Forest, Central American Atlantic moist
forests - these lowland forests are considered vulnerable, bioregionally
outstanding, and of moderate priority for conservation at the regional-
scale. Within the project area such forest types are found both within and
outside of the protected areas system. The forest management units
containing such forest types are Olanchito, Culmi and Catacamas. In the
latter two, the remaining areas of these forest types are almost wholly
contained within the protected areas system (Rio Platano Biosphere
Reserve and Patuca National Park). In Olanchito, such forests exist both
within and outside the protected areas system. They are found in the
majority in public lands.



8
Conifer/Temperate Broadleaf Forests, Central American pine-Oak forests - these
forests are considered vulnerable, bioregionally outstanding, and of moderate priority for
conservation at the regional-scale. These forest types are found within almost all of the
project's forest management units; though they represent only a small (usually less than
10%) percentage of the total forest cover-types. The extent to which these exist within
and outside of the protected area system remains to be determined when more detailed
work is carried out during the forest master planning exercises during project
implementation.
Box 1. TECHIMCAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL NORMS FOR FOREST MANAGEMENT PLANNING
AND HARVESTING IN CONIFERous FoRESTS
:,This project has a Environmental Amssnssent'Category B-ranking, requiring an envirotinmental analysis, but not a full environnmental
2i Osinn    Overall project design is concerned with Box 1. TECEMNCAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL NORMS FOR FOREST
MANAGEMENT PLANNiNG AND 1IARvESTiNG IN. CoNIFERouS FoRESTS
CurentReglatons (ore:Nra  Renia yeamnci6n p)ar ia l~Faboraci6nidePlanes deManei6 en Coniferas.AFE-
Lesgal:Dasis:: LDeyemodernizaei6n Agioa~- Astculos73,74,75., 75. Levy Forestal -Articles
l,2,3,6,9j0, 1l,12,24,649,69,S,4,9  914117-137;Decreto1113 AriclesZ,; Decreto 31-92: - Articl 75, Dereo5
Land .Use                                                .... 
*   No lnd, pblic o     tpivaender forsinaylecovetdh   tb other land tses.,
*   fiazag ofIbrst lndsonfly eried wheegrzngcmipatibeivithmaintenance: of forest.coVer.:.
* Al: commerial eloitation of forests must maintain titforest cover an, reerbl,the exitigntural spec iesmix
* All pulcfrs ad o enn.dudramutpeuecna
* In proucio foets(ulco prvae) thmxmum iallowable oaft.to be defined by .mean anial Wincremient (MAI) sustainedvyiel
* All: conmmecial foresgt exliain  tme  nnntmeeuraforestinnaeen  lan.
*   Non-ommerial exloitaions  nivate andvifido lant  are unregulIsted.
*   Noncommecialexpliain  nnational foetlnsreq r  for"t4 s mnaemn plan
*   All manageme int plnsust bie drawnu byprfbsi'onal frses
*   Al mangemet plns o inludeenvionmetalimpat an mitgaton fo:(AFEDI, ~see Box2).
*    Alimangement lans to nclude   ores potcto pan (grazn, ie,ps aniddsae)
*   All anageent pans tolayou skidtrails road, log ingdekand define water source and  atrypoecinzWMsea..
* ALt rtce areas: miclue '~elrdwtrhd"frptbewtrpout)utb   akdo   asiiaaeetPlans; no
commecialexplitatons:    1 alw d 6i rtcted areas-....
_4    rfsinl oetr r thosie  'krestrdWith t::he~Coleg  rof Foresters rfessiona standing Oft foreste s.bsspende vAere
'evdene o inomptene o corupionreslts nrqeto supnion fro  AFE-COHDEFOR.
*   Allfbores mbanaemet plansto be apoe  yAFE.COIIDEFOR pirto hi executionm
*     proa ofplans baeofemn tr:ii ofea ihst heln  icue eal rev1eW6 ofre 6ceofpo.ece iaes in plan).
*ndadernc to maaeetpanntcncl n  niomna  o     basd on plieiW andsitevist.
~~seed.trectw  40ccpabe pto  60%'slopev
mi ::rJnimum acceptale -: 1,20_ seelinsb (if lessmust carry out ercbment planting
* nslpes 6% selecil  cutngsly wit ovedead cable exrcion(in racice,no comriaqogigaov  0  soei
appovd,exep for. small-scale, s ~electivctsby communoity gop)
---see project file documnents:
1) ESA Consultores, 1 1 de marzo de 1996, Conponente de Recursos Naturales, Anexo B, Evaluaci6n Ambiental;
2) UTN Proyecto RUTA IIL, octubre 1995, Diagn6stico Rural Participativo de Comunidades en Unidades de Gestion Seleccionadas;
3)LTrN Proyecto RUrA ElI, junio 1995, Evaluaczon de Tecnologzas o Modelos Agroforestales yForestales en Honduras;
4) Comiisi6n de Auditoria Tecnica.Operacional, noviembre 1994, Auditoria Tecnica-Operacional De La Corporaci6n Hondureha De
Desarrollo ForestaL.



9
*   Mixed stands to be harvested under selective cut systWm.
*   Selective cuts not to exceed 50% of cover with minimum 5 year reentry time into sand.
*   Resin harvesting only on tees with >30 cm dbh.
*   Roads:
.maximum 12% slope (greater requires specific pemnitting)
nmust allow free passage of water (all necessary drains, drain linings, culverts, bridges)
kept clear during dry season to serve as firebreaks
*   Directional felling to avoid damage to seed trees and regeneration
*   Skidding:
pre-planned layouts to minimize skid distance, soil disturbance and to avoid regeneration
tree must be topped and linbed prior to skidding
one end oftree must be lifted during skidding
-   Logging decks:
siting to minimize soil and vegetation disturbance
siting away from water sources, live watercourses, and ephemeral channels
earthen loading ramps to be re-vegetated
-    Logging slash managed so as to.avoid creation-of fire hazards and spread of disease.
* Controlled burns as required to reduce 'fuel loading.
*   Diseased and insect attacked stands-to be treated (silvicultural controls)
*   Wildlife:
no.felling of nest or den trees (snap
no htmting (capture or collection)
No grang m foest reas whe regeneron is ss gtan 2 metes m hight
11.      The environmental and social aspects of the project were undertaken by local
consultants, an assessment of biodiversity conservation priorities (ongoing) and the status
of protected areas, and a detailed review of the environmental criteria included in forest
management plans. The natural resource management component seeks to foster
community forestry on municipal and national forest lands, and various assessments would
be made as a part of project design to determine the appropriate strategies and
institutional arrangements for community forestry activities. A full social assessment has
been completed and which included consultations with stakeholders and an evaluation of
the potential impacts on indigenous peoples; a separate Indigenous Peoples Development
Plan is not required for this project. A more complete treatment of social issues is
provided in Annex H3, SocialAssessment.
12.     The project is designed to support a program  of institutional strengthening, natural
resource management planning, and community-based/participatory natural resource
management activities. Resultingly, preparation activities are restricted to identification of
needs and opportunities and the detailing of processes and mechanisms for project
implementation. Detailed information on specific interventions and activities in forest and
upland areas is not, therefore, available for review at project appraisal. The
Environmental Analysis (see Table 4) of the project, therefore, is based on: (a) the
specific types of investment activities that would be financed under the project; and
(b) identification of environmental risks associated with such activities. The
Environmental Management Plan subsequently proposes the mechanisms, activities and
financing necessary within the implementation process in order to comply with
environmental requirements of GOH and IDA.
13.     The main environmental risks associated with the project are:



10
(a)   Land adjudication and forest land tenure: increased and/or induced
pressures on common and open resources.
(b)   Natural resource management:
(i)   Forest road rehabilitation - increased erosion and sedimentation;
improved access facilitating encroachment and illegal harvesting of
forest products (incl. Wildlife).
(ii)   Silvicultural treatments & forest harvesting - loss of biodiversity;
overharvesting; loss or degradation of wildlife habitat; water quality
impacts (turbidity, sediment, BOD, DO, temperature); genetic
erosion; alterations in catchment hydrology (increased peak flows,
reduced base flows, decreased groundwater recharge); soil
degradation (fertility loss, erosion, reduced productivity, etc.);
increased forest access (hunting, colonization, social conflicts).
(iii)   Agricultural & forestry extension and technical assistance - land use
conversion; increased soil loss and degradation (physical/chemical/
biological); non-point source pollution; overgrazing; increased
pasture burning; forest conversion; water quality impacts.
(iv)   Biodiversity Conservation - shift of protected areas priorities and
protection resources decreasing protection capability in other areas;
increased or induced pressures on protected areas from enhanced
"attractiveness" of near-protected area zones as a result of
investments in community economic and quality of life investments.
14.   It should be noted that the project would not finance any logging activities per se,
it would finance activities which would lead up to commercial logging in some areas of
pine forests and community logging (small-scale, manual) in some areas of pine and
broadleaf (potentially including humid tropical moist forest). It would also finance
silvicultural activities (primarily thinnings), which in some number of cases would be
commercial thinnings.
FRAMEWORK FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
(see Table 5)
15.   Land Adjudication and Forest Land Tenure: The primary responses to the
potential for increased and/or induced pressures on common and open resources are the
project's support for activities which would clarify land occupancy and legal status in
national forest lands, assist in providing tenure security over the resource, and enhance
institutional presence and enforcement of national forest land boundaries.



11
16.   The framework for provision of enhanced tenure security resides in the
"Regularization of Forest-Occupants Rights"-initiative of GOH and the Agricultural
Sector Modernization Law of 1992. Honduran law prohibits the titling of land that is
defined as "Terreno De Vocaci6n Forestal" TVF) or Land of Forestry Vocation n2. Only
such TVF which currently is titled as "Dominio Pleno" is recognized as non-public land;
by some definitions Dominio Pleno derives only from the original Spanish Land Grants.
All other titles (Dominio Util) or claims are not recognized as valid in terms of land
ownership (though the occupant can sell the "mejoras" to the land and with it pass on their
occupancy claim to another) and for purposes of receiving a government license for
certain activities (e.g., forest harvesting). In forested areas these later constitute the vast
majority of land claims. In theory, only those with land claims prior to the passage of the
Agricultural Sector Modernization Law in 1992 are recognized as having valid claim to
regularization. The exact meaning of"regularization" is currently part of IDA's policy
dialogue with GOH. During project implementation an explicit regularization policy and
its reglamento are expected to be defined. In practice, GOH has no policy (or intention)
to resettle persons who settled in TVF after 1992. Rather the intention is that such
persons would be incorporated into the overall rights of communities in TVF and be
allowed to participate in livelihood activities as defined within GOH forest management
plans. By definition, TVF covers some 75% to 80% of the country, and almost 100% of
the project area. In what is currently considered TVF, the project would only promote
private titling in what would be the minimal number cases where closer inspection found
that the TVF classification was incorrect (current definition is on 1:100,000 and smaller
scales). Priority activities are those related to clarifying forest occupant rights (census of
occupants, diagnostics of occupant land uses and perceptions of rights, conflict resolution
mechanisms), and assisting in the development of altemative tenure instruments for
treatment of traditional rights of communities and individuals.
17.   The Department of Cadastre (DEC) would be financed to carry out parcel-level
cadastres in each of the project forest management units. This would be part of a larger
process within which DEC would complete a rural cadastre of the entire Departments of
Yoro, Olancho and Francisco Morazan. The project areas would be given the highest
priority in terms of where the cadastre begins. The outputs from the parcel-level surveys
would also better identify local stakeholders (and interests), among whom AFE would
promote usufruct contracts for forest management and protection. It is assumed that such
arrangements would assist in reducing pressures from migrants and agricultural
conversion. This is borne out by recent studies (1996) by CIDA within their community-
based broadleaf forest management project in Atlantida. Over a five year period forest
conversion rates were reduced by more than 75% in areas where usufruct contracts were
given.
-2 TVF is defined based on criteria, which include: i) land with slopes greater than or equal to 30%; or
ii) land below 30% slope with soils having a sandy-texture and/or a depth of less than 20 cm and/or
more than 15% (by volume) stones with the presence of rocky outcrops, and/or soils subject to
inundation by tidal fluxes, and/or with restricting layers in the subsoil or with impermeable parent
material.



12
18.    Complementing the work by DEC and AFE's granting of usufruct rights, the
Upland Producer's Fund would finance the community-level processes for establishing
legal identity and obtaining usufruct rights. In addition, more than 4% of total project
costs wuill go directly to forest protection activities to be carried out under forest
management plans.
Box 2. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND MITIGATION FoRM (AFE-IDA)
Under current regulations, each forest management plan must include a section on potential impacts and
:mitigation measures, 'The information required inthe formnis presented below. Currently, in conjunction
twiih SERNAt(underthiehIDA-in ed Environmental:Development:Project (IDA Cr. 2693-HO) and
several other :donor-supported initiativesiongoigin the AFE-COHDEFOR, an envirorunental assessment
ymanual for forest managemet is beingodeveloped1to replace the current form.  The draft manual will be
avaalaibin. ate1 996. Te. manual4is to addressthec weaknesses inAthe current focus of EA.
..ff   f0 'S:--0-:.';-''-0l0f--. ..f ..d ..: ...     ...1   0:f- ..  ........  ..:-.-  . 0 .00
Inomain required:~~
For the followi ngi ntems ad  specific topics.an s_intefpotentiw .impacts,,rated-as::Not sWignificant",
Small"       iareto,r PeanentIrrevesble"=    , isobeee ied inthe fieId bytheforetercompleting 
themanagementf plani' ThlEe':   s ificmi.tiga    measur esto beaken ntfhe maaemnt plan's execution
I:are identifiedanddescribed.foreachitemand1to pic.The mitigatory measured must be integrated into the
oveallpla anidbugt
Topography And Soil Slop  stabilt  Stbili   f   a            s Sabl of t         nd   uyb            o n
Sedimentation;la   us.~:d                                                        bns-Ersin
Vegetat~~~~~~0.ion. Parii  ittiali#ii5i000220ii Remova;i Seies loss, Regeneration; Lqgin  slash; Fire; Scru-fonnati Ope  n
t: r t: aringr:': ::                                                                      y
Widlfe: hratne or.,z-' protected,,'S spcis N''es''''ting' Sites and snags; ilea huting Feed: ing h; dingsite
fiSE    '     d  d  d   i'd'   ii   0'i     04E  dRii   0i  ' 'l:E.'D    iF' 'iE    iEiEE   #RE#Eii#'SE  ; EERE....   .   .' ............EEERFEE    i   E.E.ii'l'D.  y   'S0'  'i'.'.
;000YfildliE-~~~..-Tbe or;_-N s ..tiXFas .....; .lle:                                        m ..ites:..
.. .   ........       ..... . . .. ... -     . . i . .:i    E  -S : :  ::E-R .      EE:  E E i::E  :> -  :.--: i-:-::
. .   .   .   . . . .



13
19.   Natural Resource Management.    The project proposes a series of responses (see
Table 5) ranging from inputs during the forest management planning stages; investments in
institutional capacity building; investments in training, technical assistance, extension, and applied
research; monitoring and supervision inputs; and agreed financing criteria. These include:
(a)   Forest regional forestry sector environmental assessment. Under the IDA-
financed HONDURAS - Environmental Development Project (Cr. 2693-HO)
SERNA and AFE would contract sectoral environmental assessments in the three
project regions. These would be carried out during the first six months of project
implementation and have the objectives of strengthening subsequent forest
management planning and implementation through providing analysis of potential
cumulative effects of forest management activities between forest management
units and establishing a broader, environmental planning framework to be
respected in the subsequent individual forest management plans developed at the
management unit-level.
(b)   Forest management planning. The project would support forest management
planning at the institutional-level (AFE) for management of public forest lands, to
municipalities for management of ejido forest lands, and to communities (including
local groups, cooperatives, etc.) for management of public (under usufruct
contracts) or communal forest lands. The management planning process and the
resulting management plans provide, in the first instance, the focus for exercising
environmental safeguards. On public forest lands, planning would be carried out in
a three-step process:
(i)   forest master planning - to develop macro-plans for each forest
management unit. The outputs from the process would include: a)
delimitation of public forest lands; b) a rapid inventory of the existing forest
resources; c) a census of forest occupants and participatory diagnostics of
their land uses; d) a sub-division of the management unit into planning
blocks based on zoning (protected areas, critical microwatersheds,
multiple-use areas, production forest, etc.) and for pine production forest a
further sub-division based on density, age, and volume; e) design of road
network; f) environmental impact assessment; g) forest protection plan; and
h) public consultations to finalize plan.
(ii)  forest management planning - to develop detailed management plans for
each of the management sub-divisions. In the case of production forest this
entails stand-level inventories, development of silvicultural treatment plans,
and of long-term harvesting and regeneration plans. In the case of critical
microwatersheds this involves promoting formal agreements between AFE
and the concerned municipality for development and implementation of a
management and protection plan (to be financed by the Upland Producer's
Fund). In the case of protected areas, the Biodiversity Conservation sub-
component would finance management planning in high, national priority



14
areas. In multiple-use areas, this involves promoting formal agreements
between AFE and the concerned communities or groups for planning and
management (community portion to be financed by the Upland Producer's
Fund). Required elements from the regional and master planning
environmental assessments would be incorporated into the forest
management plan, and included in an environmental control and
supervision plan section.
(iii)  annual operating plans - to develop an annual plan of work and budget
for implementation of activities called for under the management plan.
This includes activities such as a stand-level analysis to mark seed trees to
be left; plan silvicultural treatments; and complete stand maps. Required
elements from the forest management plan's environmental control and
supervision plan would be incorporated into the annual operating plan and
budget.
On ejido and communal lands, and in the case of usufruct contracts on
public lands, the Upland Producer's Fund would finance the services of a
professional forester to assist the community in developing and executing a
forest management plan. Management planning would follow the so-called
"simplified forest planning model"; the model has been developed and
tested during the last 5 years as a part of the FINNIDA-financed Programa
Centro Americano Forestal. The model provides a more than adequate
basis for planning forest operations on a small-scale (<10,000 ha).
(c)   Institutional capacity building. The project would provide significant levels of
institutional support (>10% of total project cost) to the AFE to assist it to
decentralize along forest management lines, establish an effective field presence,
upgrade the skills of its forestry professionals, have access to the information
necessary to prioritize interventions and make decisions, to integrate social and
environmental concerns into management planning and implementation, and to
carry out internal monitoring of performance and compliance.
(d)   training, technical assistance, and extension.    The Upland Producer's Fund
is designed to provide access to appropriate natural resource management
approaches and technologies for municipalities, communities, and community
groups. The operating of the Fund is also assumed to place external pressure on
the AFE to carry out its role of involving communities in forest management and
exercising technical and environmental oversight on public lands. The Fund also
supports training of natural resource professionals who would provide services to
municipalities and groups, a priority theme of which would be management of
environmental risks in forestry and agricultural systems. An independent private
sector firm or NGO would be contracted to administer, manage, promote, and
supervise the Upland Producer's Fund. The fund manager would be responsible



t.*
15
for the technical adequacy of the proposals funded and assuring the quality of their
implementation.
(d)   Monitoring and supervision inputs:
(i)    Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), located in the Ministry of Natural
Resources, would have overall responsibility for monitoring and
supervision of the project. The main instruments which they would have to
ensure project compliance with IDA and GOH environmental standards
are: a. annual technical audits - which, inter alia, would provide an
independent review the environmental aspects of project implementation;
b. project mid-term review - as a pilot project which will require close
supervision of implementation experience in order to allow appropriate
adjustments to be made during project life, two mid-term reviews would be
scheduled (and financed) within which the major focus would be on
environmental aspects of forest management planning and execution; and
c. annual implementation reports and work programs from the
implementing institutions, indicators relevant to forest protection and
management would be reported upon in the implementation reports.
(ii)   DEC would have responsibility for all elements related to the legal
definition of lands and land boundaries, both in terms of delineation of
public forest lands, as well as definition of traditional holdings within public
forest lands and their legal disposition.
(iii)   AFE's Department of Norms and Control would be charged with
ensuring the completion and quality of all environmental assessment work
and that the AFE's forest management plans complied with technical and
environmental standards !3 (see Box 3) and incorporated outputs from both
the regional and management unit-level EAs. They would also supervise
Regional offices' approvals of municipal and community-level management
plans. Where commercial logging is to carried out, the department would
have ultimate responsibility for approving release of the performance bonds
deposited by the logging outfit to ensure compliance with environmental
and technical norms. Throughout the process the Department would be
charged with coordinating with SERNA and acquiring all approvals
required by law, including assuring that required "Licencia Ambiental " are
obtained for all activities which require one.
-3 With the assistance of the IDA-financed Environmental Development Project, USAID's Forestry Development
Project, the FiNNIDA project, and several other forestry sector donors, the AFE is still in the process of
formalizing its operational technical and environmental norms for environment; a manual for environmental
assessment in forest management planning is also under development. Prior to negotiation of the project,
IDA would need to review the latest draft to identify any gaps or conflicts with IDA guidelines.



16
(iv)   AFE's Regional offices would be responsible to review the forest
management units' (unidades de gesti6n) annual operating plans to ensure
that they comply with forest management plans and technical and
environmental standards. They would be responsible to review the
municipal and community-level management plans and their
implementation. The payment of professional foresters' services by the
Upland Producer's Fund would be conditioned on the regional offices
approvals.
(v)   SERNA would be responsible for the financing, supervision and approval
of the regional forestry sector environmental assessment and the review
and In addition, they would participate with the AFE in all decisions
related to the prioritization of lands, activities and investments within the
protected areas system. SERNA's role in the environmental review and
approval of individual forest management plans would include coordinating
with AFE's Department of Norms and Control and assuring that it
complies with all legal requirements related to environmental assessments
and approvals.
(vi)   Upland Producer's Fund Manager would be responsible for assuring
that all financed proposals (both in the planning and the implementation
stages) are in compliance with financing criteria. Financing criteria include
those related to appropriate technical content and quality, as well as
broader environmental concerns. They would also be responsible to
coordinate with the PCU and AFE to assure that financing for key activities
(e.g., establishment of legal identity and obtaining usufruct contracts,
technical services for forest management, etc.) is available in a timely
fashion in the locations required by the project.
(e)      Financing criteria. A series of financing criteria were agreed at project
negotiations both for the project as a whole, as well as for subsequent financing of
activities under the Upland Producer's Fund. Other than those agreements over
specific project activities (summarized, above, in this annex detailed in the Project
Implementation Document) and GOH's commitment to their implementation, the
main agreements reached include:
(i)    Project wide:
a.    completion of sectoral forestry environmental assessments to
identify sensitive areas and environmental assessments completed
for all forest management plans prior to financing of management
activities;
b.    annual technical audits and mid-term review;
C.    no financing of new roads, rehabilitation only of existing;



17
d.    no financing of commercial logging or logging equipment in
primary tropical moist forest;
e.    no financing of activities within forest management plans that
would result in significant conversion or degradation of critical
natural habitats, such habitats to be specifically identified through
the sectoral forestry environmental assessments;
f.    all harvesting activities (commercial and community) to be within
the context of approved forest management plans; management
plans that include commercial logging to have prior environmental
assessments;
g.    all forest management activities to comply with pre-established
environmental and technical norms; and
h.    all forest management plans to include a formal process of public
consultation with affected municipalities, communities, and groups.
(b)   Upland Producer's Fund:
(i)    no financing of proposals with activities which would increase the
efficiency of natural resource exploitation or exploitation pressures except
within the context of an adequate management plan;
(ii)   no financing of proposals that would result in the conversion of forested
areas to other land uses;
(iii)  pre-financing inspection of all proposals;
(iv)   no financing of agrochemicals at farm-level;
(v)   financing of assistance to community-scale forest management only, no
industrial forest management assistance;
(vi)  all extractive activities in forest areas within context of forest management
plans and annual operating plans;
(vii)  all forest management plans and annual operating plans in state forest land
reviewed and approved by AFE-COHDEFOR, and
(viii)  all proposals to include participatory diagnostic which, inter alia, would
serve as a land use planning framework.



18
Box 3. AFE-COHDEFOR's TECHNICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL
STANDARDS IN CONIFEROUS FORESTS
Thefollowing shojdd be read bearing in mind that the current trend to controlind manage logging is extremely positfve and as yet an
incipient effort. While improvements are necessary, in the first instance, simply bring the forests under some type of management and
redcing uncontrolled land conversions and "cut out and get out" logging practices will be the most significant long term coniribution.
The observations below are intended to point out areas where improvements might be targeted over the medium-term
A review of the current environmental and technical standards which form the basis for GOH's review and approval of forest management
plans, and subsequent enforcement of compliance reached the following conclusions:
Technical Adequacy
In the agregate the current norms are reasonable in so far as they intend to address the site specific objectives of maintaining forest cover
over the long temn, minimizing secondary disturbances, and assuring adequate regeneration. They are weak as regards minimizing off-site
impacts, loggingin steep aras, -selective felling norms, and avoiding soil disturbances caused by logging operations during periods of high
Ttsoil moisture. ,:Avoidance of off-siterimpacts,,spcifically asregds waterqualityt(sedimentation, stream temperature, and BOD), requires
development of more specific standards in two areas in particular:
s    Roads :-road standar&dsregdg firee passage of water are reasonable, however there is no provision for longer term stabilization of
$road cuts:and fills,.lmaintunancefof drainagestructures (the 'broad-based dip".utilized in the southern United:States would be an
::    appropriate addition tovroad standards lo addtess this problem), road approachesto streams, stream crossings, and road closings and
reclamation (whereothis wouldbec desirable1iandhow it shu   be done).
*  i.Protection:0 water sources and streaums:- the statidards itendr t0 4fird thistype: ofprotection but ifail to provide any clear:guidelines.
No udan  'Stirovided ion str  setbi ksandhrvesting iin nea       mzonesii):disposal of lgging slash; iii) activities in and
around permanent and seasonalmwetlands; and in)siting of road skid paths and Ii idks relative to watersources and streams.
e-tting oftsuch standards is una   ritrary but is nonetheless necessary. StlandardsInust beisimple andAdirected at
000   maintainingnagturalshadinig of Eive stem  courses,4 eping logging  shlaouttof thhe: natr drage  patterns, tnaintaining buffer
z:::Zones arund springsSa tream courses sources, and ading logging acivitie in wetlan aeas.
*     ' AfSizead     fhlocation ofharesti  opeations-novmentiismadeon upper limitstes to harvestasind theproximnityof harvest areas
from one year to thnext Ouidelincs4shouldbe developed to belapplied on th basis: of watersheds of third order streams or larger to
:avoid dovercug and aggregate downstrean& efectson kquicows and sediment out of upla rodction forests.
In 1reference tothe othepots
E :    -    -   ~ ~:    et . p   . -6-m     4 Ei -            -E - -
.            Astologging in step areas,.the norNsurequire:selective:feling Mand a senof cable:ways.- Under current market, technicaltcapacity and
resource oonditions such logging ispnota viable o at   in practice,i oggingzof such areas is:artesanal and will tend to cause
::::the: developmentvof pemanent scarsfriom  uncontrolld downslope skidding. There is nocasy solution to:this problem; but neither is
:t:as yet a rortssue
e-l- No inorms eexgst regardi-g avoidance of high-grading sites trou selectve loging:
E  * i  -No norms exist as. to kping heavyequip cnt out ofthefore  road building, or skidding  duringperiods of highWsoil moisture to
avoid destructio of soil tutr
Inal ae thr as a nee to* -b a    atnirsccfopr*t-ionlguidelns o ahevn dsred objetive.00 0 (  ;0 :i;0 ;  ;t   0 :i ;f 
Environmental Norms ~ ~   ~     i                           'ei  dclrd: 6
Thle currenot norms arweak and require improvtenot acrosstr curryexistsliteinfornation :upon whch to
bae improvements.  Re solution ofthis problem is largerthasimplyaforstrysctor issue.S Attempts are made in the current norms to
,:spealk to conservation of hbbitat and  nidlie, utW thfere is no1ontxt withiniwhich this might- b done. wAs aresult the norms are reduced to
referritang to-:nestingand breeding sites (snags).  itioa no attemptis made to look at aggregate impts offorest management
4      sactiviis Each  tmanag    plan imsdeveloped andv tas  totally inepndeunit    sBroaderdscapescale:norms related to
itat, spes and aggregate impacts in gien ecoregions and river basins . should bathe(goaltwa  which efbrtsk are directed. Working
towardthisW-goal cuould, uin t   mediu-rpvda bsis for mrespecific BA guidelines nithescale 6oftheindividual management
Ca*pacit T:o Aplyand Enforce Te ~chicaland Evionena Norm
Given. that very littlek expeience as yet :exists with forest managt(plftnipg application,: supervision, and enforcement) it must
:logicallyfollow (andidoes) tat little capacity existstSstmake te msysteTmwok. Thc professional: forester is: identified as being responsible
I for:  aspects of managementincluding tie initial environmental jassessments. Unavoidably, there will be errors: fromr mistakes,
ignoranceiandincompetence. This canmonl be managed through having modest goals and training coupled with on-the-job experience
,andadequatesupervision..



19
20.   Land Acquisition and Resettlement. The project would finance neither land acquisition
nor activities which required resettlement. An assurance was obtained at negotiations to this
effect.
21.   Legal Framework.    Based on the Ley General del Ambiente (Decree Nt-. 104-93), the
Reglamento General de la Ley del Ambiente (Agreement NM. 109-93) and the Reglamento del
Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n de Impacto Ambiental (Agreement NM. 109-93) Honduras has
put into effect an legal framework for environmental protection that has been reviewed by and
found acceptable to IDA. The implementing mechanisms for these laws and regulations are
currently the focus of an ongoing IDA-financed project (Environmental Development Project, Cr.
2693-HO). A technical manual for the National Environmental Assessment System has been
developed by SERNA and would provide the initial basis for the project's environmental
assessment actions. This would later be complemented and/or superseded by the environmental
assessment manual being developed by the AFE-COHDEFOR in cooperation with SERNA.



TABLE 4. MATRIX OF POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS AND PROJECT RESPONSE, BY PROJECT COMPONENT
ACTIVITY                    POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS   i                       MANAGEMENT OR MITIGATION MEASURE
COMPONENT 1. LAND ADMINISTRATION
I.     Implementation of Land Registry    No negative impacts anticipated.
(Folio Real)
II.    Land Adjudication.               I.      Social, rural and forest zones  See Annex H3, Social Assessment for additional detail.
- tenure conflicts, loss of access to key  1.  Regularization & Conflict Resolution Activities:
resources for subsistence, income, and  A.    parcel-level cadastre & census of forest occupants in all project units;
quality of life.                      B.      participatory diagnostic of traditional usage and rights in all project units;
II.    Environmental, rural and       C.     technical assistance in development & piloting of a wider range of usufruct
forest zones - increased and/or          instruments for communal and individual tenure;
induced pressures on common and/or    D.     technical assistance in development & implementation of conflict resolution
open resources.                          mechanisms;
E.     inclusion of a trained social promoter in each cadastral team to assist with
legal aspects and resolve conflicts;
F.     promotion of adjudication at community-level with local authorities, other
relevant local actors, DEC, INA, AFE;
G.     direct support to communities for:
1.    legal assistance in tenure adjudication,
2.     establishing legal identity and obtaining usufruct rights;
3.     formalized participation and public consultation processes with
municipalities and affected local populations in state forest management
planning and implementation;
I.    Forest Management Planning and Implementation Process:
A.     formalized participation and public consultation processes;
B.     sectoral forestry environmental assessments to identify sensitive areas, outputs
integrated into regional forest management planning and implementation norms;
C.     increased institutional presence and effectiveness in project areas;
D.     forest protection programs in each forest management unit;
E.     incorporation of local communities into forest management activities and
sharing of economic benefits;
F.     project monitoring - annual technical audits; mid-term review.
COMPONENT 2. NATURAL RESOuRCE MANAGEMENT
Subcomponent 2.1 For est Management
Forest land tenure:                     I.      Social - tenure conflicts,  See Component 1. Land Administration, Land Adjudication (above)
A.     delimitation of state forest lands; reduced access to resources, reduced
B.     regularization of the land rights  income/quality of life;
of forest occupants.              II.     Environmental - increased or
induced pressures on common and/or
open resources.
2. forest management:                    1. Forest road rehabilitation -    1.     Road rehabilitation:
i)  rehabilitation of forest roads;     A.      increased erosion and       A.     no new roads, rehabilitation only of existing;



TABLE 4. MATRLX OF POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS AND PROJECT RESPONSE, BY PROJECT COMPONENT
ACTIVITY                    POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS                           MANAGEMENT OR MITIGATION MEASURE
ii)  silvicultural treatments & forest     sedimentation                    B.     completion of road rehabilitation & maintenance plans (including
harvesting.                                B.      improved access                organization and financing) which include drainage structure and sediment control
facilitating encroachment,         designs;
C.     illegal harvesting of forest    C.  road rehabilitation plan included in environmental assessment of forest
products (incl. wildlife)          management plan;
2.  Silvicultural treatments & forest  D.    financing of vegetative stabilization and road drainage systems;
harvesting -                          E.     increased institutional presence and effectiveness in project areas;
D.     loss of biodiversity,       F.     forest protection programs in each forest management unit.
E.     overharvesting          II.     Forest harvesting:
F.     loss or degradation of      A.      no harvesting in humid tropical forest; all harvesting plans leading to timber
wildlife habitat,                  auctions will be in Pinus spp. forests only (see Upland Producers Fund, below);
G.     water quality impacts       B.     no harvesting in protected areas (incl. "declared" watersheds, see Upland
(turbidity, sediment, BOD, DO,     Producers Fund, below);
temperature),                   C.     gap analysis of Protected Area System, biodiversity monitoring, strengthening
H.     genetic erosion,               of protected areas system and other activities under "Biodiversity Conservation"
I.     alterations in catchment       component (see Annex E, Biodiversity Conservation Component);
hydrology (increased peak       D.     sectoral forestry environmental assessments, outputs integrated into regional
flows, reduced base flows,         forest management planning and implementation norms;
decreased groundwater           E.     all harvesting activities within context of forest management plans;
recharge,                       F.     environmental assessments of individual forest management plans; technical
J.     soil degradation (fertility    assistance to improve environmental and technical norms.
loss, erosion, reduced          G.     application of pre-established environmental technical norms (see Box 3
productivity, etc.);               above, Environmental and Technical Standards) and EA recommendations in
K.      increased forest access -     harvesting plan and implementation;
hunting, colonization;          H.     performance bond retrieval conditioned on compliance with environmental
L.     social conflicts.              norms;
1.     monitoring of harvesting plans and implementation (by AFE-COHDEFOR
and through annual technical audits, and mid-term review);
J.     re: social conflicts, see "1. Forest Land Tenure (above).
3. Regulation and control of forest     No negative impacts anticipated.    Activities would contribute to monitoring of compliance with technical and environmental
harvesting                                                                  norms.
4.  Forestry research.                  No negative impacts anticipated.    Activities would contribute to improved understanding of productivity and natural
regeneration in production pine forests.
Subcomponent 2.2 Upland Producers Fund
1.     Agricultural & forestry extension  1. Intensification of Agricultural    I.  Intensification of Agricultural Production:
and technical assistance                Production:                            A.      focus on existing crop lands only of hillside-farming households and
A.     land use conversion;           inclusion of conservation measures introduction systems;
B.     increased soil loss and     B.      proposals require participatory diagnostic which, inter alia, will serve
degradation                        as a land use planning framework;
(physical/chemical/ biological);  C.   pre-financing inspection;
C.     non-point source            D.      financing of training and extension in soil & moisture conservation and



TABLE 4. MATRIX OF POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS AND PROJECT RESPONSE, BY PROJECT COMPONENT
ACTIVITY                   POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMpAcrs                          MANAGEMENT OR MITIGATION MEASURE
pollution                         fertility management practices;
II.    Increased Usage of            E.     project monitoring (annual technical audits, and mid-term review).
Agrochemicals:                    II.    Increased Usage of Agrochemicals:
A.     human health;              A.     no financing of agrochemicals at farm-level (only in tree nurseries);
B.     surface and groundwater    B.     promotion of proven IPM practices through extension program;
contamination;                 C.     nursery-worker training to include appropriate handling, storage and disposal
C.     increased resistance of       of agrochemicals.
pests/disease               III.    Management of Natural Forest (incl. humid tropical forest):
III.    Management of natural forest    A.    community-scale only, no industrial forest management;
(incl. humid tropical forest): see   B.     financing of technical assistance, extension, and training for community
"Forest Management, Forest              groups and municipalities for completion and implementation of forest
Harvesting" (above)                     management plans;
Agroforestry & reforestation      C.      all extractive activities in forest areas within context of forest management
A.     degradation of                plan and annual operating plan;
germplasm;                     D.     all management plans and annual operating plans in state forest land
B.     introduction of aggressive    reviewed and approved by AFE-COHDEFOR, based on technical and
species                           enviromnental norms;
V.    Microwatershed management    E.       provision of tenure instruments (contratos de usufructo) in state forest land as
- social conflicts (resource use).     incentive to appropriate management;
VI.   Intensification of livestock   F.    tenure instruments conditioned on compliance with environmental and
production:                             technical norms.
A.     overgrazing;                                IV.    AGROFORESTRY & REFORESTATION:
B.     increased soil loss and    A.    training and technical assistance in nursery production;
degradation;                   B.     introduction of improved nursery practices and culting programs;
C.     reduced groundwater        C.     introductions only of tested species.
recharge;                   v      Microwatershed Management:
D.     increased pasture          A.     see "Forest Land Tenure "
burning;                       B.     financing of technical assistance for participatory planning in microwatershed
E.     forest conversion;            management.;
F.     water quality impacts.     C.     signing of management agreements with municipal government giving role
and responsibilities for protection with local groups that rely on microwatersheds
for potable water supply.
VI.   Intensification of Livestock Production:
A.     small-scale only (household-level);
B.     existing pasture lands only;
C.     proposals require participatory diagnostic which, inter alia, will serve as a
land use planning framework;
D.     pre-financing inspection;
E.     promotion and extension of production systems that include improved pasture
I fertility management
F.     pasture management. practices to reduce or control burning.



i
TABLE 4. MATRIX OF POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS AND PROJECT RESPONSE, BY PROJECT COMPONENT
ACTIVITY                    POTENTIAL NEGATIVE ImPACTS                            MANAGEMENT OR MITIGATION MEASURE
II.    Agricultural & forestry research     No negative impacts anticipated.   Activities would contribute to improved understanding and,management of forests and
upland production systems.
III.    Training (agriculture & forestry   No negative impacts anticipated.   Activities would contribute to improved technical capacity for forestry and hilislope
research and extension)                                                     production system's research and appropAate management of natural resources.
Subcomponent 2.3 Biodiversity Conservation
I.     Redefinition of Protected Areas  I.      Shift of protected areas    I.      Legal status of all Protected Areas would remain unchanged; financial-viability
System                                  priorities decreasing protection    and budgetary resources of entire system to improve under project; project to increase
capability in other areas;         AFE's overall institutional presence and protection capacity in national lands; where
II.    Increased pressures on      relevant Upland Fund would finance extension and technical assistance for improved
protected areas a result of investments  community natural resource management; project target's highest value areas
in community economic and quality of II.   Buffer zone investment criteria would prohibit increasing access, "pull" factor
life investments.                  investments (e.g., schools); financing only of small-scale, group investments consistent
with biodiversity conservation and protected area's management..
2.  Protected area management:          III.    Infrastructure development:  III.    Infrastructure development:
i) infrastructure development;          A.      road construction - loss of    i) environmental impact assessments will be carried out on a park-by-park basis for
ii) enforcement of protected area          biodiversity, see "Forest Road   the design and siting of infrastructure developments;
boundaries.                                    Rehabilitation"
B.     building construction -
loss of biodiversity,          ii) project will finance all mitigatory measures specified in EA;
C.     inappropriate siting,
induced pressures on key        iii) financing conditioned on institutional presence in place to ensure protection.
resources.
IV.    Enforcement of protected    IV.    Enforcement of protected area boundaries - see "Land Adjudication" and "Forest
area boundaries - see "Land        Land Tenure".
Adjudication" and "Forest Land
Tenure".
3. Buffer zone management                See "Forest Land Tenure", and      See "Forest Land Tenure", and "Upland Producer's fund.
"Upland Producer's fund.



