Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2940-HO
Development Credit Agreement
(Rural Land Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 10, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2940 -HO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 1997 , between REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01.
The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
       “Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
Page  2
      agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in
      the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for
      goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b)
      for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import
      of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
      Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
      Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”.
      (c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
       “Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If: (a) the
      right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall
      have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a
      continuous period of thirty days; or (b) at any time, the Association
      determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the
      Credit will not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be
      financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; or (c) at any time, the
      Association determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out
      of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were
      engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the
      Credit during the procurement or the execution of such contract, without
      the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to
      the Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of
      expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been
      eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit; or (d) at any
      time, the Association determines that the procurement of any contract to
      be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the
      procedures set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement
      and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract
      which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
      proceeds of the Credit; or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the
      Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association
      may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to
      make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such
      notice, such amount of the Credit shall be cancelled.”.
      Section 1.02.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
       (a)
“AFE-COHDEFOR” means the Honduran Corporation for Forestry Development 
(Corporación Hondureña de Desarrollo Forestal) of the Borrower, established pursuant 
to Decree Law No. 103 dated January 10, 1974 (as such Decree Law has been amended to 
the date of this Agreement), or any successor thereto, acceptable to the Association;
       (b)
“DAPVS” means the Protected Areas and Wildlife Department (Departamento 
de Areas Protegidas y Vida Silvestre) of AFE-COHDEFOR;
       (c)
“Decree No. 31-92” means the Decree Law (Decreto Ley) of the Borrower 
dated March 5, 1992 which established the necessary mechanisms to modernize and 
develop the agricultural sector of the Borrower and such term includes the regulations 
to such Decree Law, as such Decree Law and regulations have been amended to the date 
of this Agreement;
       (d)
“Eligible Beneficiary” means a local group, rural community, 
Municipality, private entity or NGO which has met the criteria set forth in the 
Project Implementation Manual to benefit from the carrying out of a Subproject; 
       (e)
“Executing Entities” means AFE-COHDEFOR, the Executive Directorate of the 
National Cadastre (Dirección Ejecutiva del Catastro Nacional), the National Geographic 
Institute (Instituto Geográfico Nacional), the National Agrarian Institute (Instituto 
Nacional Agrario) and the Property Registry (Registro de la Propiedad);
       (f)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of  even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Association which includes as annexes thereto the Project 
Implementation Manual,  the principles and guidelines to prepare the resettlement plan 
and the positions of the staff to be employed by the PCU  as referred to in Sections 
3.01 (a) and (b), 3.14 and 7.01 (c) of this Agreement, respectively;
       (g)
“Municipality Agreement” means any of the agreements mentioned in Section 
3.01 (d) (i) of this Agreement;
Page  3
       (h)
“Municipality” means an autonomous entity established pursuant to Decree 
No. 134-90 dated October 29, 1990; 
       (i)
“NGO” means a non-government organization operating in the Borrower’s 
territory;
       (j)
“Participation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 
(c) (i) of this Agreement;
       (k)
“PCU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement;
       (l)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the Borrower’s manual, acceptable 
to the Association and attached as an annex to the Implementation Letter which sets 
forth all the operational aspects for the carrying out of the Project, including, 
inter alia: (i) the terms and conditions of the Participation Agreement and the 
Subsidiary Agreement; (ii) a model format of a Subproject Agreement and a Municipality 
Agreement; (iii) a description of the responsibilities of the different departments of 
the Borrower and Executing Entities which participate in the implementation of the 
Project; (iv) an implementation schedule for the carrying out of each of the 
components of the Project; (v) the accounting, reporting and auditing procedures to be 
followed by the Borrower and AFE-COHDEFOR in the carrying out of their respective 
Parts of the Project; (vi) the guidelines for the evaluation of the activities to be 
carried out under Parts A.1, B.2 (a) and B.5 of the Project; (vii) the guidelines and 
procedures for the procurement of works, goods, consultants’ services and training 
under the Project; (viii) the Project monitoring and evaluation indicators; (ix) the 
criteria for selecting and approving Eligible Beneficiaries and Subprojects, 
respectively;  (x) the plan of actions to promote the participation of local groups, 
rural communities, municipalities, private entities and NGOs in the Project; and (xi) 
the plan of actions to protect the environment, and/or mitigate any potential negative 
environmental effect, under the Project, as such manual may be amended from time to 
time with the agreement of the Association;
       (m)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a Letter of Agreement signed by 
the Association on May 23, 1995 and countersigned by the Borrower on June 28, 1995;
       (n)
“Protected Area” means the area officially designated by the Borrower to 
be under a special management regime for the primary purpose of ensuring its 
biodiversity and ecological integrity;
       (o)
“SAG” means the Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock (Secretaría de 
Agricultura y Ganadería) of the Borrower; 
       (p)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
       (q)
“Subproject ” means a specific project which meets the criteria  set 
forth in the Project Implementation Manual and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, consisting, inter alia, of the provision of technical assistance and 
training and the acquisition and utilization of goods for the transfer of technology 
and/or applied research in the areas of agriculture, livestock, forestry and 
micro-watershed management;
       (r)
“Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.01 (e) of this Agreement to carry out a Subproject;
       (s)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.02 of 
this Agreement;
       (t)
“Technical Provider” means an entity which has met the criteria set forth 
in the Project Implementation Manual to assist the Eligible Beneficiaries in the 
carrying out of Subprojects; 
       (u)
“Uplands Fund” means the fund to be established as provided in paragraph 
3 (d) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to finance Subprojects; and
       (v)
“Uplands Fund Committee” means the committee referred to in Section 3.08 
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Page  4
The Credit
       Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty three million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 23,500,000).
       Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit.
       (b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in its central bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
       (c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
       Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
       (b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
       (c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
       Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
       Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
       Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2007 and ending January 15, 2037.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2017 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
       (b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
Page  5
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A)
requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B)
requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
       (c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
       (d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
       Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(a)
shall: (i)  through SAG and with the assistance of the Executing 
Entities, carry out Parts A.1 through A.5 of the Project (as provided in paragraph (c) 
below); and (ii) through SAG: (A) carry out Parts B.4 and D of the Project; and (B) 
carry out Part B.5 of the Project pursuant to Subproject Agreements  (as provided in 
paragraph (d) below), all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate engineering, economic, financial, administrative and environmental 
practices, and in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project;
(b)
shall cause AFE-COHDEFOR pursuant to the Subsidiary Agreement (as 
provided in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement) to carry out Parts A.6, B.1, B.2, B.3 
and C of the Project with the assistance of SAG, with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate engineering, economic, financial, administrative and 
environmental practices, and in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual, and 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
AFE-COHDEFOR to carry out such Parts of the Project, and shall not take or permit to 
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of such 
Parts of the Project; 
(c)
(i) for purposes of carrying out Parts A.1 through A.5 of the Project 
shall enter into an agreement (the Participation Agreement) with the Executing 
Entities under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including those 
set forth in the Project Implementation Manual; and (ii) except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, abrogate, suspend, 
terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Participation Agreement or any provision 
thereof; 
(d)
(i) without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (c) above, 
shall prior to carrying out any activity under Parts A.1 through A.5 of the Project in 
the respective Municipality, enter into an agreement (the Municipality Agreement) with 
such Municipality under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including those set forth in the Project Implementation Manual; and (ii) except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, abrogate, 
suspend, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Municipality Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
(e)
for purposes of  financing  Subprojects (under Part B.5 of the Project) 
Page  6
shall enter into an agreement (the Subproject  Agreement) with each Eligible 
Beneficiary and Technical Provider under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including those set forth in the Project Implementation Manual. 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) 
above, the Borrower shall transfer to AFE-COHDEFOR, on a grant basis, a portion of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated to Parts A.6, B.1, B.2, B.3 and C of the Project 
pursuant to a subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and AFE-COHDEFOR under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, abrogate, suspend, terminate, waive or 
fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.                                             
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.05. The Association and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(related to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be applicable to 
AFE-COHDEFOR in connection with the carrying out of Parts A.6, B.1, B.2, B.3  and C of 
the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, and shall cause AFE-COHDEFOR to, maintain 
policies and procedures adequate to enable the Borrower to monitor and evaluate on an 
ongoing basis, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof  in accordance with the indicators and targets set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall establish and thereafter operate and 
maintain, during Project implementation, a project coordination unit (the PCU) within 
SAG with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU is at all times staffed with at 
least four full-time professionals and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a 
committee (the Uplands Fund Committee) with functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Association, including the responsibility to administer the 
operation of the Uplands Fund.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the Uplands Fund is at all times managed 
by a professional with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Association. 
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall cause AFE-COHDEFOR,  at the request of the 
Association, to exchange views with the Association with respect to the progress in 
the carrying out of Parts A.6, B.1, B.2, B.3 and C of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters related to the 
purposes of the Credit for such Parts of the Project.
(b)  The Borrower shall cause AFE-COHDEFOR to promptly inform the Association of 
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of  the 
Parts of the Project mentioned in (a) above, the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Page  7
Credit for such Parts of the Project, or the performance of AFE-COHDEFOR of its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.  
Section 3.10.  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of 
Sections 3.01 and 3.09 of this Agreement and Section 9.05 of the General Conditions, 
the Borrower shall, and shall cause AFE-COHDEFOR, to: 
(a)
not later than fourteen months after the Effective Date review jointly 
with the Association the recommendations of the evaluation studies of Parts A.1, B.2 
(a) and B.5 of the Project (as referred to in Part D.3 of the Project); 
(b)
not later than sixty days after the conclusion of the review referred to 
in (a) above, prepare and present to the Association a joint plan satisfactory to the 
Association which shall include, inter alia, the recommendations referred to in (a) 
above and the Association’s comments thereon, if any, and a timetable to implement 
such plan; and 
(c)
immediately thereafter commence the implementation of such plan in  
accordance with its terms.
Section 3.11. Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (b) of  Section 
3.01 of this Agreement and in the event that AFE-COHDEFOR is not able to collect the 
necessary funds to finance DAPVS’ activities, the Borrower shall provide promptly as 
needed and thereafter deposit in a commercial bank account, the required amount to pay 
for the cost of such activities. 
Section 3.12. (a) Without limitations to the provisions of Section  9.06 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall not later than January 31, April 30, July 31 
and October 31 of each year until the completion of the Project, beginning in July 
1997, prepare and furnish to the Association a report of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall reasonably request with respect to the progress made by the 
Borrower and AFE-COHDEFOR in the carrying out of their respective Parts of the Project 
during the three calendar months preceding the date of presentation of each such 
report.
(b)
In each of the reports to be furnished not later than  July 31 of each 
calendar year (as provided in (a) above), the corresponding report shall also: (i) 
recommend, if applicable, the actions to be taken to ensure the efficient 
implementation of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and (ii) 
describe an investment plan of the activities to be carried out during the succeeding 
calendar year, including the amount of counterpart  funding required to carry out such 
activities. 
(c)
As part of the report to be furnished not later than January 31, 2000  
(as provided in (a) above), the Borrower shall also prepare and include, under terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Association, an evaluation of the progress achieved 
in the carrying out of the Project since its initiation (such evaluation to be 
measured in accordance with the monitoring and performance indicators referred to in 
Section 3.06 of this Agreement). 
(d)
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General 
Conditions and Section 3.09 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, and shall cause 
AFE-COHDEFOR to, review
jointly with the Association, by not later than February, 
May, August and November of each year until the completion of the Project, beginning 
in August 1997, the corresponding reports furnished according to paragraph (a) above, 
and thereafter take all actions, satisfactory to the Association, required to ensure 
the efficient implementation of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall obtain the Association’s approval before the 
Borrower or AFE-COHDEFOR initiate any Project activity to be carried out in any part 
of the Borrower's territory bordering on the territory of another country.
Section 3.14. In the event that any activity under the Project requires 
resettlement of population, the Borrower shall, prior to the initiation of the 
carrying out any such activity: (a) prepare (in accordance with the principles and 
guidelines set forth in the Implementation Letter) and furnish to the Association a 
resettlement plan for such population, satisfactory to the Association; and (b) 
promptly thereafter, carry out or cause to be carried out the corresponding 
resettlement plan referred to in (a) herein in accordance with its terms.
Page  8
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of  Parts A.1 through 
A.5, B.4, B.5 and D of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out such Parts of the Project.
       (b)
The Borrower shall:
      (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
                    of this Section including those for the Special Account
                    for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                    appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                    independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
     (ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                    any case not later than six months after the end of each
                    such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                    such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                    have reasonably requested; and
    (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information
                    concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof
                    as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                    request.
      (c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
      (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                    paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                    reflecting such expenditures;
     (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                    received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
                    last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all
                    records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                    other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
    (iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such
                    records; and
     (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                    annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                    and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                    opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                    expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                    with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                    their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                    related withdrawals. 
      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause AFE-COHDEFOR to maintain records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations and financial condition of AFE-COHDEFOR, including separate accounts for 
Parts A.6, B.1, B.2, B.3 and C of the Project.
      (b)
The Borrower shall cause AFE-COHDEFOR to:
      (i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements
                    (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                    related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
                    accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                    consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                    to the Association;
     (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
                    any case not later than six months after the end of each
                    such year: (A) certified copies of its financial
                    statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the report
Page  9
                    of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                    detail as the Association shall have reasonable requested;
                    and
     (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information
                    concerning such records, accounts, financial statements
                    and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
                    to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
      Section 5.01. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause AFE-COHDEFOR to: 
      (a)
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
engineering, economic, financial, administrative and environmental practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers; and 
      (b)
at all times operate and  maintain its machinery, equipment and other 
property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with the sound practices mentioned in (a) herein.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
      (a)
That AFE-COHDEFOR shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement.
      (b)
That the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of AFE-COHDEFOR or for the 
suspension of its operations.
(c)
That any Executing Entity shall have failed to comply with its 
obligations under the Participation Agreement.
(d)
That Decree No. 31-92 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to 
affect, in the opinion of the Association, the ability of the Borrower and/or 
AFE-COHDEFOR to carry out their corresponding Parts of the Project.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
That any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (c)  of Section 
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
the notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
(b)
That any of the events specified in paragraphs (b) or (d) of Section 6.01 
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
That the Subsidiary Agreement has been signed by the parties thereto.
(b)
That the Participation Agreement has been signed by the parties thereto.
(c)
That the PCU has: (i) been established as provided in Section 3.07 of 
this Agreement; and (ii) employed the staff for the positions listed in the 
Page  10
Implementation Letter.
Section 7.02. The date September 8, 1997 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 8.01.
The Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 8.02.
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretaría de Estado en el
Despacho de Finanzas
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C.
Honduras
Cable address: 
Telex:
HACIENDA
1308
Tegucigalpa
FINANZAS HO
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By  /s/ Roberto Flores Bermúdez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Page  11
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
     Credit Allocated
    % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
(a) under Part A.3
    40,000
85%
    of the Project
(b) under Part B.1 
   180,000
70%
    of the Project
(c) under Part B.3
    50,000
70%
    of the Project
(d) under other Parts 
 1,450,000
85%
    of the Project (other
    than  Parts A.3,
    B.1 and B.3 of the Project)
(2)
Goods
(a) under Parts A.2 (b), A.3  
    420,000
 
100% of foreign
    and A.4 (b) of the Project
expenditures and 
80% of local 
expenditures
(b) under other Parts
  1,590,000
100% of foreign
    of the Project (other than
expenditures and 
    Parts A.2 (b), A.3, A.4 (b)
80% of local 
    and B.5 of the Project)
expenditures
(3)
Consultant’s services
(a) under Parts A.3 
    310,000
100%
    and A.4 (b) of the Project
(b)  under Part B.3
    830,000
100%
     of the Project
(c) under other Parts
  9,670,000
100%
    of the Project (other
    than  Parts  A.3,
    A.4 (b), B.3 and B.5
    of the Project)
(4)
Training
(a) under Part A.3
     70,000
100%
    of the Project
(b) under other Parts
  1,520,000
100%
    of the Project (other
    than  Parts A.3
    and B.5 of the Project)
(5)
Subprojects
  3,590,000
100%
(6)
Salaries and Operating
Costs
(a) under Part A.3
    550,000
90% during the
           of the Project
first two years
after the 
Effective Date; 
Page  12
50% during the
third and
fourth years after
the Effective Date 
and 20% thereafter 
       (b) under other Parts
    900,000
90% during the 
    of 
the Project (other
first two years
    than  Part A.3
after the
    of the Project)
Effective Date;
50% of the 
Project) during
the third and
fourth years after
the Effective Date 
and 20% thereafter
(7)
Refunding of
  1,380,000
Amount due
Project Preparation
pursuant to 
Advance
Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
    950,000
 __________
TOTAL
 23,500,000 
 ========== 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than for consultants’ 
services) incurred for: (i) training materials; (ii) rental of training facilities; 
(iii) transportation expenses of trainees to the place where training is provided and 
subsistence expenses for such trainees; (iv) scholarships and fellowships for training 
courses to be provided in the Borrower's territory or abroad; and (v) study tours and 
internships in the Borrower's territory or abroad;  and
(d)
the term “Salaries and Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred for : 
(i) remuneration of personnel hired under the corresponding Parts of the Project as 
indicated in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule; and (ii) recurrent costs 
associated with the implementation of the Project, including: (A) operation, leasing 
and maintenance of: (1) vehicles (including fuel, repairs and spare parts); and (2) 
office equipment and office facilities under the Project; (B) insurance for equipment 
and vehicles procured under the Project; (C) office materials and office utilities 
associated with the functioning of the PCU; and (D) communications expenses required 
for the implementation of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR1,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures (under 
Categories (1) (b) and (d), (2) (b), (3) (c) and (4) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 
of this Schedule) before that date but within twelve months of the date of this 
Agreement; 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (3) 
(a), (4) (a) and (6) (a) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for 
the financing of Parts A.2 (b), A.3 and A.4 (b) of the Project unless the critical 
actions indicated in the joint plan (referred to in Section 3.10 (b) of this 
Agreement) to permit the carrying out of Part A.3 of the Project have been adopted as 
provided in such Section;
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (c) and (3) (b) of 
the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for the financing of Part B.3 of 
Page  13
the Project unless the critical actions indicated in the joint plan (referred to in 
Section 3.10 (b) of this Agreement) to permit the carrying out of such Part of the 
Project have been adopted as provided in such Section; and
(d)
payments made for expenditures under Category (5) of the table set forth 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for the financing of each Subproject  under Part B.5 
of the Project unless: (i) the Uplands Fund has been established with functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association; (ii)  the Uplands Fund Committee has 
been established and staffed as provided in Section 3.08 of this Agreement; (iii) the 
procedural manual and regulations referred to in Part B.4 of the Project have been 
approved and issued by the Borrower, respectively; and (iv) the corresponding 
Subproject  Agreement has been signed.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures:
(a)
under contracts for works costing less than $150,000 equivalent (with the 
exception of the first two contracts to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part 
C.2 (b) of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement);
(b)
under contracts for goods costing less than $150,000 equivalent (with the 
exception of the first two contracts to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part 
C.2 (a) of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement);
(c)
under contracts for: (i) consulting firms costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; and (ii) individual consultants costing less than $20,000 equivalent; and
(d)
for payments made under Categories (4), (5) and (6) of the table set 
forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) modernize the system of rural land 
registration and, in turn, lay a foundation for more effective land titling; (b) 
strengthen the forest management functions of AFE-COHDEFOR and promote participation 
of local populations in managing their natural resources; (c) improve agricultural and 
forestry practices in upland farms to stabilize income of upland farmers and thereby 
decrease forest encroachment; and (d) assist the Borrower in the rationalization of 
the system of Protected Areas.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Land Administration Modernization 
1.
Carrying out of a pilot program (through the provision of technical assistance 
and training and the acquisition and utilization of the goods required therefor) in 
the territorial jurisdiction of about fifteen Municipalities within the Department of 
Comayagua for land administration based on a parcel-based (folio real) system in which 
physical cadastral information is overlaid with a consistent legal register of that 
parcel, such program to include, inter alia,  the identification and adjudication of 
land and its registration thereafter.
2.
Carrying out of mapping activities, including aerial photography and field 
surveys, to assist the Borrower and the Executing Agencies in the implementation of: 
(a) the pilot program; and (b) the new system (both referred to in Parts A.1 and A.3 
herein, respectively), including the acquisition and utilization of the goods required 
therefor. 
3.
Design and implementation of a parcel-based (folio real) system (based on the 
experiences resulting from the implementation of the pilot program referred to in Part 
A.1 above) in which physical cadastral information is overlaid with a consistent legal 
register of that parcel, including, inter alia: (a) the preparation of manuals, 
procedures and formats for the management of the system referred to herein; (b) the 
development of software prototypes for the management of  the system referred to 
herein and for the maintenance of  the  data-base of such system; (c) the carrying out 
of the activities required to initiate the conversion of the information existing 
under the current registry system into the new system referred to herein, including 
Page  14
the construction or rehabilitation or adaptation, as the case may be, of facilities to 
establish the offices of the real estate registry; (d) the identification and 
adjudication of land and its registration thereafter; and (e) the hiring of personnel, 
the acquisition and utilization of goods and the provision of technical assistance and 
training required to implement such system.
4.
Carrying out of public information campaigns to promote the implementation of: 
(a) the pilot program; and (b) the new system (both referred to in Parts A.1 and A.3 
above, respectively), including the acquisition and utilization of  the goods required 
therefor.
5.
Provision of technical assistance, including the acquisition of goods required 
therefor, on mechanisms for non-judicial resolution of real-estate related disputes.
6.
Design and establishment of a registry for public forest lands in the Borrower’s 
territory.
Part B:
Natural Resource Management
1.
Strengthening of the new institutional structure of  AFE-COHDEFOR to manage the 
national forests and to respond to public concerns and community needs in the 
management of such  national forests through the hiring of personnel, the provision of 
technical assistance and training, the rehabilitation of infrastructure and the 
acquisition and utilization of the goods required therefor.
2.
(a) Preparation and carrying out of forest management plans (as the contents of 
such plans and the area to implement such plans have been identified and described  in 
the Project Implementation Manual); and (b) carrying out of  forestry activities 
related to tenure and usufruct, planning, inventory, management, public information 
and research (as the contents and the area to carry out such activities are described 
in detail in the Project Implementation Manual), including the hiring of personnel,  
the provision of technical assistance and training, the acquisition and utilization of  
goods and the rehabilitation of infrastructure, as the case may be, to carry out the 
plans and activities mentioned in (a) and (b) herein.
3.
Preparation and carrying out of forest management plans (similar to those 
referred to in Part 2 (a) above) in the areas identified and described in the Project 
Implementation Manual, including the provision of technical assistance and the 
rehabilitation of infrastructure required to carry out the plans referred to herein. 
4.
Design of  a procedural manual and regulations for the operation of the Uplands 
Fund.
5.
Financing of Subprojects through the Uplands Fund.
Part C:
Biodiversity Conservation
1.
Strengthening of  the management capacity of DAPVS and NGOs to manage Protected 
Areas  (as such areas have been identified in the Project Implementation Manual) 
through the hiring of personnel, the provision of technical assistance and training 
and the acquisition and utilization of the goods required therefor.
2.
Preparation of a biodiversity map of the Borrower’s territory.
3.
Development of management plans for at least two management units in the areas 
which have been identified in the Project Implementation Manual and the demarcation of 
the Protected Areas located in such units.
4.
(a) Construction of tourist infrastructure for at least three Protected Areas 
(such areas to be selected in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in 
the Project Implementation Manual), including the acquisition and utilization of the 
goods required therefore; and (b) rehabilitation of tourist and administrative 
infrastructure for seven Protected Areas (such areas to be selected in accordance with 
the criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Implementation Manual), including 
the acquisition and utilization of  the goods required therefor.
5.
(a) Establishment of a trust fund to manage the financial resources for the 
benefit of the Protected Areas in the Borrower’s territory (in accordance with terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Association), including the hiring of personnel, the 
provision of technical assistance and training and the acquisition and utilization of 
the goods required therefor; and (b) design and implementation of a self-financing 
mechanism to operate the trust fund mentioned in (a) herein.
Page  15
Part D:
Project Administration
1.
Administration, coordination, evaluation and monitoring of the Project 
activities. 
2.
Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of technical audits under 
the Project. 
3. 
Carrying out of studies in fields related to land management, agricultural 
technology and natural resources and evaluation studies of  the Project. 
* * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto (preference for domestically manufactured goods) shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding
Vehicles, computer hardware and software and office equipment estimated to cost 
$150,000 equivalent or more per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent but more than 
$25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines; and
(b)
works estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more per contract shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(c)
procurement of all goods and works under Parts C.2 (a) and (b) above, 
shall be carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Association.
3.
National Shopping or International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national or international shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $325,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
Page  16
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work and who has the experience and resources 
to successfully complete the contract.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of 
Parts B.1 and C.1 of this Section; and (b) the first two contracts for goods and the 
first two contracts for works to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C.2 of 
this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to:  (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $20,000 
equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior Association review shall not apply 
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single source selection of 
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the 
Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or more; or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$20,000 equivalent or more.
3.
Consultants’ services required for Subprojects shall be procured in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association. 
Section III.
Special Provisions
A.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in Part C.2 of Section 
I of this Schedule:
1.
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid in accordance with 
criteria set forth in the bidding documents, and without taking into account, in the 
evaluation, the financial cost of foreign exchange components.
2.
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to:
Page  17
(a)
be registered in Honduras;
(b)
have a representative in Honduras;
(c)
be associated with Honduran suppliers or contractors; and
(d)
certify that, in their country of origin, Honduran suppliers or 
contractors are allowed to participate in competitive bidding procedures under equal 
conditions with other bidders.
3.
Contracts shall not be divided for the sole purpose of reducing contract 
amounts.
B.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of 
this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultants shall be permitted to participate in the selection process 
even if there is availability of Honduran consultants for the services being procured.
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered with Honduran 
associations or to be associated with Honduran consulting firms as a condition for 
participating in any selection process.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals form the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of $2,900,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                    shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
                    into the Special Account at such intervals as the
                    Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                    shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                    evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                    for the payment or payments in respect of which
Page  18
                    replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such
                    request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                    withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                    Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                    requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                    and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                    Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account:
(i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
                    pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
                    Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
                    the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as
                    the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
                    Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
                    refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount
                    of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
                    justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
                    no further deposit by the Association into the Special
                    Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
                    evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
                    be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Page  19
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
