Page  1
April 29, 1999
Her Excellency
Lic. Gabriela Núñez de Reyes
Minister of Finance
Tegucigalpa, Honduras
Re: HONDURAS (Rural Land Management Project)
Credit No. 2940-HO
First Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement 
Excellency:
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated June 10, 1997 entered 
into between the Republic of  Honduras (the Borrower) and the International 
Development Association (the Association).
As a result of the damage caused by Hurricane Mitch in the Borrower’s territory, 
the Borrower requested the Association to reallocate part of the proceeds of the 
Credit to finance, inter alia, the carrying out of emergency infrastructure activities 
in the Sula Valley located in the department of Cortés, Honduras. In response to such 
request, the Association hereby agrees to amend the Development Credit Agreement, as 
follows:
I.
Development Credit Agreement:
1.
Section 1.02 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
‘AFE-COHDEFOR’ means the Honduran Corporation for Forestry Development 
(Corporación Hondureña de Desarrollo Forestal) of the Borrower, established pursuant 
to Decree Law No. 103 dated January 10, 1974 (as such Decree Law has been amended to 
the date of this Agreement), or any successor thereto, acceptable to the Association;
(b)
‘CEVS’ means the Executive Committee of the Sula Valley (Comisión 
Ejecutiva Valle de Sula) established pursuant to Executive Decree (Decreto Ejecutivo) 
No. 13-90 of August 20, 1990;
(c)
‘Cooperation Agreement’ means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 
(f) (i) of this Agreement;
(d)
‘DAPVS’ means the Protected Areas and Wildlife Department (Departamento 
de Areas Protegidas y Vida Silvestre) of AFE-COHDEFOR;
(e)
‘Decree No. 31-92’ means the Decree Law (Decreto Ley) of the Borrower 
dated March 5, 1992 which established the necessary mechanisms to modernize and 
develop the agricultural sector of the Borrower and such term includes the regulations 
to such Decree Law, as such Decree Law and regulations have been amended to the date 
of this Agreement;
(f)
‘DICTA’ means the Directorate of Science and Agricultural Technology 
(Dirección de Ciencia y Tecnología Agraria) within SAG;
(g)
‘Eligible Beneficiary’ means a local group, rural community, 
Municipality, private entity or NGO which has met the criteria set forth in the 
Project Implementation Manual to benefit from the carrying out of a Subproject;
(h)
‘Executing Entities’ means AFE-COHDEFOR, the Executive Directorate of the 
Page  2
National Cadastre (Dirección Ejecutiva del Catastro Nacional), the National Geographic 
Institute (Instituto Geográfico Nacional), the National Agrarian Institute (Instituto 
Nacional Agrario) and the Property Registry (Registro de la Propiedad);
(i)
‘Implementation Letter’ means the letter of  even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Association which includes as annexes thereto the Project 
Implementation Manual,  the principles and guidelines to prepare the resettlement plan 
and the positions of the staff to be employed by the PCU  as referred to in Sections 
3.01 (a) and (b), 3.14 and 7.01 (c) of this Agreement, respectively;
(j)
‘Municipality Agreement’ means any of the agreements mentioned in Section 
3.01 (d) (i) of this Agreement;
(k)
‘Municipality’ means an autonomous entity established pursuant to Decree 
No. 134-90 dated October 29, 1990; 
(l)
‘NGO’ means a non-government organization operating in the Borrower’s 
territory;
(m)
‘Participation Agreement’ means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 
(c) (i) of this Agreement;
(n)
‘PCU’ means the unit referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement;
(o)
‘Project Implementation Manual’ means the Borrower’s manual, acceptable 
to the Association and attached as an annex to the Implementation Letter which sets 
forth all the operational aspects for the carrying out of the Project, including, 
inter alia: (i) the terms and conditions of the Participation Agreement and the 
Subsidiary Agreement; (ii) a model format of a Subproject Agreement and a Municipality 
Agreement; (iii) a description of the responsibilities of the different departments of 
the Borrower and Executing Entities which participate in the implementation of the 
Project; (iv) an implementation schedule for the carrying out of each of the 
components of the Project; (v) the accounting, reporting and auditing procedures to be 
followed by the Borrower and AFE-COHDEFOR in the carrying out of their respective 
Parts of the Project; (vi) the guidelines for the evaluation of the activities to be 
carried out under Parts A.1, B.2 (a) and B.5 of the Project; (vii) the guidelines and 
procedures for the procurement of works, goods, consultants’ services and training 
under the Project; (viii) the Project monitoring and evaluation indicators; (ix) the 
criteria for selecting and approving Eligible Beneficiaries and Subprojects, 
respectively;  (x) the plan of actions to promote the participation of local groups, 
rural communities, municipalities, private entities and NGOs in the Project; and (xi) 
the plan of actions to protect the environment, and/or mitigate any potential negative 
environmental effect, under the Project, as such manual may be amended from time to 
time with the agreement of the Association;
(p)
‘Project Preparation Advance’ means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a Letter of Agreement signed by 
the Association on May 23, 1995 and countersigned by the Borrower on June 28, 1995;
(q)
‘Protected Area’ means the area officially designated by the Borrower to 
be under a special management regime for the primary purpose of ensuring its 
biodiversity and ecological integrity;
(r)
‘SAG’ means the Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock (Secretaría de 
Agricultura y Ganadería) of the Borrower; 
(s)
‘SOPTRAVI’ means the Secretariat of Public Works, Transport and Housing 
(Secretaria de Obras Públicas, Transporte y Vivienda) of the Borrower;
(t)
‘Special Account’ means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(u)
‘Subproject’ means a specific project which meets the criteria  set forth 
in the Project Implementation Manual and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, consisting, inter alia, of the provision of technical assistance and training 
and the acquisition and utilization of goods for the transfer of technology and/or 
applied research in the areas of agriculture, livestock, forestry and micro-watershed 
Page  3
management;
(v)
‘Subproject Agreement’ means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.01 (e) of this Agreement to carry out a Subproject;
(w)
‘Subsidiary Agreement’ means the agreement referred to in Section 3.02 of 
this Agreement;
(x)
‘Technical Provider’ means an entity which has met the criteria set forth 
in the Project Implementation Manual to assist the Eligible Beneficiaries in the 
carrying out of Subprojects;
(y)
‘Uplands Fund’ means the fund to be established as provided in paragraph 
3 (d) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to finance Subprojects; and
(z)
‘Uplands Fund Committee’ means the committee referred to in Section 3.08 
of this Agreement.”.
2.
Section 3.01 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(a)
shall: (i)  through SAG with the assistance of the Executing Entities, 
carry out Parts A.1 through A.5 of the Project (as provided in paragraph (c) below); 
(ii) through SAG: (A) carry out Parts B.4 and D of the Project; and (B) carry out Part 
B.5 of the Project pursuant to Subproject Agreements  (as provided in paragraph (e) 
below); (iii) through SAG with the assistance of SOPTRAVI and CEVS, carry out Part E 
of the Project; and (iv) through DICTA, carry out Part B.6 of the Project, all with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, economic, 
financial, administrative and environmental practices, and in accordance with the 
Project Implementation Manual, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project;
(b)
shall cause AFE-COHDEFOR pursuant to the Subsidiary Agreement (as 
provided in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement) to carry out Parts A.6, B.1, B.2, B.3 
and C of the Project with the assistance of SAG, with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate engineering, economic, financial, administrative and 
environmental practices, and in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual, and 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
AFE-COHDEFOR to carry out such Parts of the Project, and shall not take or permit to 
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of such 
Parts of the Project; 
(c)
(i) for purposes of carrying out Parts A.1 through A.5 of the Project 
shall enter into an agreement (the Participation Agreement) with the Executing 
Entities under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including those 
set forth in the Project Implementation Manual; and (ii) except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, abrogate, suspend, 
terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Participation Agreement or any provision 
thereof; 
(d)
(i) without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (c) above, 
shall prior to carrying out any activity under Parts A.1 through A.5 of the Project in 
the respective Municipality, enter into an agreement (the Municipality Agreement) with 
such Municipality under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including those set forth in the Project Implementation Manual; and (ii) except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, abrogate, 
suspend, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Municipality Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
(e)
for purposes of  financing  Subprojects (under Part B.5 of the Project) 
shall enter into an agreement (the Subproject  Agreement) with each Eligible 
Beneficiary and Technical Provider under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including those set forth in the Project Implementation Manual.
Page  4
(f)
(i) for purposes of carrying out Part E of the Project, the Borrower 
shall enter into an agreement (the Cooperation Agreement) with CEVS under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, abrogate, suspend, terminate, 
waive or fail to enforce the Cooperation Agreement or any provision thereof.”. 
3.
A new Section 3.15 is added to read as follows:
“Section 3.15.  The Borrower shall prior to the carrying out of each specific 
investment referred to in Part E.2 of the Project, carry out an environmental 
evaluation of each such investment in a manner acceptable to the Association. If the 
evaluation of a particular investment recommends actions to be taken by the Borrower 
to address any negative environmental impact, the Borrower shall take all such actions 
in a manner acceptable to the Association.”.
4.
Section 4.01 (a) is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Section 4.01(a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of  Parts A.1 through 
A.5, B.4, B.5, B.6, D and E of the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Borrower responsible for carrying out such Parts of the Project.”.
5.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as set forth in 
Annex 1 to this Amendment Letter.
6.
Paragraph 3(a) of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR1,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures (under 
Categories (1) (b) and (e), (2) (b), (3) (c) and (4) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 
of this Schedule) before that date but within twelve months of the date of this 
Agreement;”. 
7.
Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures:
(a)
under contracts for works under Part E.2 of the Project and those 
contracts for works under other Parts of the Project costing less than $150,000 
equivalent (with the exception of the first two contracts to be awarded pursuant to 
the provisions of Part C.2 (b) of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement);
(b)
under contracts for goods costing less than $150,000 equivalent (with the 
exception of the first two contracts to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part 
C.2 (a) of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement);
(c)
under contracts for: (i) consulting firms costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; and (ii) individual consultants costing less than $20,000 equivalent; and
(d)
for payments made under Categories (4), (5) and (6) of the table set 
forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.”.
8.
Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as set forth in Annex 2 to this Amendment 
Letter.
9.
Schedule 3 is hereby amended to read as set forth in Annex 3 to this Amendment 
Letter.
10.
Paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 4 is hereby amended to read as follows:
Page  5
“1. (a) the term ‘eligible Categories’ means Categories (1) through (6) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;”.
II.
Effectiveness:
This Amendment Letter shall: (a) be executed in two counterparts each of which 
shall be an original; and (b) become effective as of March 15, 1999 once the 
Association has received: (i) one fully executed original of this Amendment Letter; 
and (ii) evidence, acceptable to the Association, that: (A) the Borrower has amended 
the agreement entered into with the United Nations Development Programme dated January 
23, 1998, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of assisting the 
Borrower in the procurement of works and consultants’ services under Part E of the 
Project; and (B) the Cooperation Agreement has been signed by the parties thereto.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the two counterparts of this Amendment Letter. 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mark Cackler
Acting Director
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s/ Gabriela Nuñez de Reyes
Authorized Representative
Date:
ANNEX 1
“1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category: 
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
(a) under Part A.3
    40,000
85%
of the Project
(b) under Part B.1 
   180,000
70%
of the Project
(c) under Parts A.1
 3,550,000
70%
and B.3 of the
Project
(d) under Part E.2
 3,500,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures
and 100% of local
Page  6
expenditures for
works procured
through the services
of a tax-exempt
procurement agent
(e) under other Parts 1,300,000
85%
of the Project (other 
than Parts A.3, B.1, 
B.3 and E.2 of the 
Project
(2)
Goods
(a) under Parts A.2     500,000)
100% of foreign
(b), A.3 and A.4 
    )
expenditures and 
(b) of the Project
    )
100% of local 
    )
expenditures for
    )
goods procured
    )
through the services
    )
of a tax-exempt
    )
procurement agent
(b) under other Parts   820,000)
of the Project (other 
    )
than Parts A.2 (b), 
    )
A.3, A.4 (b) and
    )
B.5 of the Project)
    )
(3)
Consultant’s services
(a) under Parts A.3     310,000
100%
and A.4 (b) of the 
Project
(b) under Part B.3
    830,000
100%
      of the Project
(c) under other Parts 4,500,000
100%
of the Project (other
than  Parts  A.3,
A.4 (b), B.3, B.5 and
E.1 of the Project)
(d)
under Part E.1   300,000
100%
of the Project
(4)
Training
(a) under Part A.3
     70,000
100%
of the Project
(b) under other Parts 1,000,000
100%
of the Project (other
than Parts A.3
and B.5 of the 
Project)
(5)
Subprojects
  3,500,000
100%
(6)
Salaries and Operating
Costs
(a) under Part A.3
    550,000
90% during the first two 
of the Project
years after the 
Effective Date; 50% 
during the third and
fourth years after the
Page  7
Effective Date and
20% thereafter
(b) under other Parts   740,000
90% during the first two
     of the Project (other
years after the
     than  Part A.3
Effective Date; 50% 
     of the Project)
during the third and
fourth years after the
Effective Date and
20% thereafter
(7)
Refunding of
  1,380,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) of
Advance
this Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
    430,000
TOTAL
 23,500,000”. 
ANNEX 2
“SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) modernize the system of rural land 
registration and, in turn, lay a foundation for more effective land titling; (b) 
strengthen the forest management functions of AFE-COHDEFOR and promote participation 
of local populations in managing their natural resources; (c) improve agricultural and 
forestry practices in upland farms to stabilize income of upland farmers and thereby 
decrease forest encroachment; and (d) assist the Borrower in the rationalization of 
the system of Protected Areas.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Land Administration Modernization 
1.
Carrying out of a pilot program (through the provision of technical assistance 
and training and the acquisition and utilization of the goods required therefor) in 
the territorial jurisdiction of about fifteen Municipalities within the Department of 
Comayagua for land administration based on a parcel-based (folio real) system in which 
physical cadastral information is overlaid with a consistent legal register of that 
parcel, such program to include, inter alia,  the identification and adjudication of 
land and its registration thereafter.
2.
Carrying out of mapping activities, including aerial photography and field 
surveys, to assist the Borrower and the Executing Agencies in the implementation of: 
(a) the pilot program; and (b) the new system (both referred to in Parts A.1 and A.3 
herein, respectively), including the acquisition and utilization of the goods required 
therefor. 
3.
Design and implementation of a parcel-based (folio real) system (based on the 
experiences resulting from the implementation of the pilot program referred to in Part 
A.1 above) in which physical cadastral information is overlaid with a consistent legal 
register of that parcel, including, inter alia: (a) the preparation of manuals, 
procedures and formats for the management of the system referred to herein; (b) the 
development of software prototypes for the management of  the system referred to 
herein and for the maintenance of  the  data-base of such system; (c) the carrying out 
of the activities required to initiate the conversion of the information existing 
under the current registry system into the new system referred to herein, including 
the construction or rehabilitation or adaptation, as the case may be, of facilities to 
establish the offices of the real estate registry; (d) the identification and 
adjudication of land and its registration thereafter; and (e) the hiring of personnel, 
the acquisition and utilization of goods and the provision of technical assistance and 
training required to implement such system.
Page  8
4.
Carrying out of public information campaigns to promote the implementation of: 
(a) the pilot program; and (b) the new system (both referred to in Parts A.1 and A.3 
above, respectively), including the acquisition and utilization of  the goods required 
therefor.
5.
Provision of technical assistance, including the acquisition of goods required 
therefor, on mechanisms for non-judicial resolution of real-estate related disputes.
6.
Design and establishment of a registry for public forest lands in the Borrower’s 
territory.
Part B:
Natural Resource Management
1.
Strengthening of the new institutional structure of  AFE-COHDEFOR to manage the 
national forests and to respond to public concerns and community needs in the 
management of such  national forests through the hiring of personnel, the provision of 
technical assistance and training, the rehabilitation of infrastructure and the 
acquisition and utilization of the goods required therefor.
2.
(a) Preparation and carrying out of forest management plans (as the contents of 
such plans and the area to implement such plans have been identified and described  in 
the Project Implementation Manual); and (b) carrying out of  forestry activities 
related to tenure and usufruct, planning, inventory, management, public information 
and research (as the contents and the area to carry out such activities are described 
in detail in the Project Implementation Manual), including the hiring of personnel,  
the provision of technical assistance and training, the acquisition and utilization of  
goods and the rehabilitation of infrastructure, as the case may be, to carry out the 
plans and activities mentioned in (a) and (b) herein.
3.
Preparation and carrying out of forest management plans (similar to those 
referred to in Part 2 (a) above) in the areas identified and described in the Project 
Implementation Manual, including the provision of technical assistance and the 
rehabilitation of infrastructure required to carry out the plans referred to herein. 
4.
Design of  a procedural manual and regulations for the operation of the Uplands 
Fund.
5.
Financing of Subprojects through the Uplands Fund.
6.     Provision of technical assistance to farmers selected in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Manual for purposes of assisting such 
farmers in emergency planting activities, including the acquisition and distribution 
of seeds and fertilizers, acceptable to the Association.
Part C:
Biodiversity Conservation
1.
Strengthening of  the management capacity of DAPVS and NGOs to manage Protected 
Areas  (as such areas have been identified in the Project Implementation Manual) 
through the hiring of personnel, the provision of technical assistance and training 
and the acquisition and utilization of the goods required therefor.
2.
Preparation of a biodiversity map of the Borrower’s territory.
3.
Development of management plans for at least two management units in the areas 
which have been identified in the Project Implementation Manual and the demarcation of 
the Protected Areas located in such units.
4.
(a) Construction of tourist infrastructure for at least three Protected Areas 
(such areas to be selected in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in 
the Project Implementation Manual), including the acquisition and utilization of the 
goods required therefore; and (b) rehabilitation of tourist and administrative 
infrastructure for seven Protected Areas (such areas to be selected in accordance with 
the criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Implementation Manual), including 
the acquisition and utilization of  the goods required therefor.
5.
(a) Establishment of a trust fund to manage the financial resources for the 
Page  9
benefit of the Protected Areas in the Borrower’s territory (in accordance with terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Association), including the hiring of personnel, the 
provision of technical assistance and training and the acquisition and utilization of 
the goods required therefor; and (b) design and implementation of a self-financing 
mechanism to operate the trust fund mentioned in (a) herein.
Part D:
Project Administration
1.
Administration, coordination, evaluation and monitoring of the Project 
activities. 
2.
Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of technical audits under 
the Project. 
3. 
Carrying out of studies in fields related to land management, agricultural 
technology and natural resources and evaluation studies of  the Project.
Part E: Emergency Infrastructure 
1.
Carrying out of the design and supervision of the investments described in Part 
E.2 below.
2.
Carrying out of emergency infrastructure investments, acceptable to the 
Association, in the Sula Valley, such as: (a) strengthening of river defenses 
(including levees and other related river protection investments); (b) cleaning and 
dredging of the river bed and river channels; (c) cleaning and dredging of the river 
flood channel; (d) erosion protection of river dikes; and (e) installation of drainage 
systems. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2002.”.
ANNEX 3
“SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto (preference for domestically manufactured goods) shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent but more than 
$25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
Page  10
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines; and
(b)
works (except as provided in Parts C.3 (b) and C.4 of this Section)  
estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more per contract shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
(c)
procurement of all goods and works under Parts C.1 (a) and (b) above, 
shall be carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Association.
2.
National Shopping or International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national or international shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
(a) Works (except as provided in subparagraph (b) below and Part C.4 of this 
Section) estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $325,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work and who has the experience and resources 
to successfully complete the contract.
(b)
Works under Part E.2 of the Project shall be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed or price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least 
four qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to 
the contractor who offers the lowest evaluated price quotation for the required work 
and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
4.
Force Account
Land surveying, land delineation on indigenous lands, silvicultural treatments, 
including,
fire breaks, replanting, thinnning, watershed stabilization, and other 
forest management activities under Parts A.1, A.2, B.1, B.2, B.3 and C.3 of the 
Project up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of 
Part B.1 of this Section; and (b) the first two contracts for goods and the first two 
contracts for works to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 of this 
Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Page  11
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to:  (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $20,000 
equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior Association review shall not apply 
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single source selection of 
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the 
Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or more; or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$20,000 equivalent or more.
3.
Consultants’ services required for Subprojects shall be procured in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association. 
Section III.
Special Provisions
A.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in Part C.2 of Section 
I of this Schedule:
1.
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid in accordance with 
criteria set forth in the bidding documents, and without taking into account, in the 
evaluation, the financial cost of foreign exchange components.
2.
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to:
(a)
be registered in Honduras;
(b)
have a representative in Honduras;
(c)
be associated with Honduran suppliers or contractors; and
(d)
certify that, in their country of origin, Honduran suppliers or 
contractors are allowed to participate in competitive bidding procedures under equal 
conditions with other bidders.
3.
Contracts shall not be divided for the sole purpose of reducing contract 
amounts.
B.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of 
this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultants shall be permitted to participate in the selection process 
even if there is availability of Honduran consultants for the services being procured.
Page  12
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered with Honduran 
associations or to be associated with Honduran consulting firms as a condition for 
participating in any selection process.”.
