Page  1
July 6, 1999
Her Excellency
Lic. Gabriela Núñez de Reyes
Minister of Finance
Tegucigalpa, Honduras
Re: HONDURAS (Rural Land Management Project)
Credit No. 2940-HO
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement 
Excellency:
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated June 10, 1997 entered 
into between the Republic of  Honduras (the Borrower) and the International 
Development Association (the Association), as amended.
As a result of the damage caused by Hurricane Mitch in the Borrower’s territory, 
the Borrower requested the Association to permit the participation of local 
communities in the procurement of silvicultural treatment under Parts B.2, B.3 and C.3 
of the Project. In response to such request, the Association hereby agrees to amend 
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement, as set forth in the Annex to this 
Amendment Letter.
This Amendment Letter shall: (a) be executed in two counterparts each of which 
shall be an original; and (b) become effective as of March 15, 1999 once the 
Association has received: (i) one fully executed original of this Amendment Letter; 
and (ii) evidence, acceptable to the Association, that the conditions of effectiveness 
of the Amendment Letter dated April 29, 1999 have been met. 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the two counterparts of this Amendment Letter. 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Donna Dowsett- Coirolo
Director
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s/ Gabriela Nuñez de Reyes
Authorized Representative
Date:
July 16, 1999
Page  2
ANNEX
“SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto (preference for domestically manufactured goods) shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent but more than 
$25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines; and
(b)
works (except as provided in Parts C.3 (b), C.4 and C.5 of this Section)  
estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more per contract shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
(c)
procurement of all goods and works under Parts C.1 (a) and (b) above, 
shall be carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Association.
2.
National Shopping or International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national or international shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
(a)
Works (except as provided in subparagraph (b) below and Parts C.4 and C.5 
of this Section) estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $325,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work and who has the experience and resources 
to successfully complete the contract.
(b)
Works under Part E.2 of the Project up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $300,000 shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from at least four qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
Page  3
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic 
form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest evaluated 
price quotation for the required work and who has the experience and resources to 
successfully complete the contract.
4.
Force Account
Land surveying, land delineation on indigenous lands, silvicultural treatments, 
including,
fire breaks, replanting, thinning, watershed stabilization, and other 
forest management activities under Parts A.1, A.2, B.2, B.3 and C.3 of the Project up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent may, with the Association’s 
prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines.
5.
Community Participation 
Works required for silvicultural treatment under Parts B.2, B.3 and C.3 of the 
Project up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 may be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of 
Part B.1 of this Section; and (b) the first two contracts for goods and the first two 
contracts for works to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 of this 
Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to:  (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $20,000 
equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior Association review shall not apply 
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single source selection of 
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the 
Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or more; or (e) amendments to 
Page  4
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$20,000 equivalent or more.
3.
Consultants’ services required for Subprojects shall be procured in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association. 
Section III.
Special Provisions
A.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in Part C.2 of Section 
I of this Schedule:
1.
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid in accordance with 
criteria set forth in the bidding documents, and without taking into account, in the 
evaluation, the financial cost of foreign exchange components.
2.
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to:
(a)
be registered in Honduras;
(b)
have a representative in Honduras;
(c)
be associated with Honduran suppliers or contractors; and
(d)
certify that, in their country of origin, Honduran suppliers or 
contractors are allowed to participate in competitive bidding procedures under equal 
conditions with other bidders.
3.
Contracts shall not be divided for the sole purpose of reducing contract 
amounts.
B.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of 
this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultants shall be permitted to participate in the selection process 
even if there is availability of Honduran consultants for the services being procured.
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered with Honduran 
associations or to be associated with Honduran consulting firms as a condition for 
participating in any selection process.”.
