Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2940-1-HO
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Rural Land Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 22, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 2940-1-HO
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 22, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Rural Land Management Project) dated June 10, 1997, as such Agreement 
has been amended by letters from the Association to the Borrower, duly countersigned by the 
latter and dated April 29, 1999, July 6, 1999, and November 27, 2000 (the Development Credit 
Agreement), for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 
to the Development Credit Agreement (the Project);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional assistance 
towards the financing of the Project by increasing the amount made available under the 
Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to six million 
seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR6,700,000); and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as 
follows:
“Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph 12 is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the 
existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs 
(13), (14) and (15):
“12.
 “Participating Country” means any country that the Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 183 of the Board of Governors 
of the Association adopted on June 26, 1996; and Participating Countries’ means, collectively, 
all such countries.”; and
(b)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall 
be made either in respect of Tranche One or of Tranche Two (as both terms are defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, as the case may be):  (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a Participating Country for purposes of Tranche One or of 
Tranche Two, as the case may be, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
Page  3
United Nations.”.
Section 1.02. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as 
follows:
“Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“AFE-COHDEFOR” means the Honduran Corporation for Forestry 
Development (
Corporación Hondureña de Desarrollo Forestal
)
of
the Borrower, established 
pursuant to Decree Law No. 103 dated January 10, 1974 (as such Decree Law has been amended 
to the date of this Agreement), or any successor thereto, acceptable to the Association;
(b)
“Amending Agreement” means the Agreement Amending Development Credit 
Agreement (Rural Land Management Project) between the Borrower and the Association dated 
November 22, 2001;
(c)
“CEVS” means the Executive Committee of the Sula Valley (
Comisión 
Ejecutiva Valle de Sula
)
established pursuant to Executive Decree (
Decreto Ejecutivo
)
No. 13-90 
of August 20, 1990;
(d)
“Cooperation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (f) (i) 
of this Agreement;
(e)
“DAPVS” means the Protected Areas and Wildlife Department (
Departamento 
de Areas Protegidas y Vida Silvestre
) of AFE-COHDEFOR;
(f)
“Decree No. 31-92” means the Decree Law (
Decreto Ley
)
of
the Borrower dated 
March 5, 1992, which established the necessary mechanisms to modernize and develop the 
agricultural sector of the Borrower and such term includes the regulations to such Decree Law, 
as such Decree Law and regulations have been amended to the date of this Agreement;
(g)
“DICTA” means the Directorate of Science and Agricultural Technology (
Dirección de Ciencia y Tecnología Agropecuaria
) within SAG;
(h)
“Eligible Beneficiary” means a local group, rural community, Municipality, 
private entity or NGO which has met the criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Manual 
to benefit from the carrying out of a Subproject;
(i)
“Executing Entities” means AFE-COHDEFOR, the Executive Directorate of the 
National Cadastre (
Dirección Ejecutiva del Catastro Nacional
), the National Geographic 
Institute (
Instituto Geográfico Nacional
), the National Agrarian Institute (
Instituto Nacional 
Agrario
) and the Property Registry (
Registro de la Propiedad
);
(j)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of  even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Association which includes as annexes thereto the Project Implementation 
Manual,  the principles and guidelines to prepare the resettlement plan and the positions of the 
staff to be employed by the PCU  as referred to in Sections 3.01 (a) and (b), 3.14 and 7.01 (c) of 
this Agreement, respectively;
Page  4
(k)
“Municipality Agreement” means any of the agreements mentioned in Section 
3.01 (d) (i) of this Agreement;
(l)
“Municipality” means an autonomous entity established pursuant to Decree No. 
134-90, dated October 29, 1990; 
(m)
“NGO” means a non-government organization operating in the Borrower’s 
territory;
(n)
“Participation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (c) 
(i) of this Agreement;
(o)
“PCU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement;
(p)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the Borrower’s manual, acceptable to 
the Association and attached as an annex to the Implementation Letter which sets forth all the 
operational aspects for the carrying out of the Project, including, 
inter alia
: (i) the terms and 
conditions of the Participation Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreement; (ii) a model format of a 
Subproject Agreement and a Municipality Agreement; (iii) a description of the responsibilities of 
the different departments of the Borrower and Executing Entities which participate in the 
implementation of the Project; (iv) an implementation schedule for the carrying out of each of 
the components of the Project; (v) the accounting, reporting and auditing procedures to be 
followed by the Borrower and AFE-COHDEFOR in the carrying out of their respective Parts of 
the Project; (vi) the guidelines for the evaluation of the activities to be carried out under Parts 
A.1, B.2 (a) and B.5 of the Project; (vii) the guidelines and procedures for the procurement of 
works, goods, consultants’ services and training under the Project; (viii) the Project monitoring 
and evaluation indicators; (ix) the criteria for selecting and approving Eligible Beneficiaries and 
Subprojects, respectively; (x) the plan of actions to promote the participation of local groups, 
rural communities, municipalities, private entities and NGOs in the Project; and (xi) the plan of 
actions to protect the environment, and/or mitigate any potential negative environmental effect, 
under the Project, as such manual shall have been amended in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association in order to fulfill the condition stipulated in paragraph (b) of Section 2.01 of this 
Amending Agreement, and as such manual, so amended, may be further amended from time to 
time with the agreement of the Association;
(q)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance granted by 
the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a Letter of Agreement signed by the Association on 
May 23, 1995, and countersigned by the Borrower on June 28, 1995;
(r)
“Protected Area” means the area officially designated by the Borrower to be 
under a special management regime for the primary purpose of ensuring its biodiversity and 
ecological integrity;
(s)
“SAG” means the Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock (
Secretaría de 
Agricultura y Ganadería
) of the Borrower; 
(t)
“SOPTRAVI” means the Secretariat of Public Works, Transport and Housing (
Secretaría de Obras Públicas, Transporte y Vivienda
) of the Borrower;
Page  5
(u)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(v)
“Subproject” means a specific project which meets the criteria  set forth in the 
Project Implementation Manual and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, consisting, 
inter alia
,
of the provision of technical assistance and training and the acquisition and utilization 
of goods for the transfer of technology and/or applied research in the areas of agriculture, 
livestock, forestry and micro-watershed management;
(w)
“Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 3.01 
(e) of this Agreement to carry out a Subproject;
(x)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement;
(y)
“Technical Provider” means an entity which has met the criteria set forth in the 
Project Implementation Manual to assist the Eligible Beneficiaries in the carrying out of 
Subprojects;
(z)
“Tranche One” means an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty 
three million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR23,500,000) for the original 
financing of the Project; 
(aa) 
 “Tranche Two” means an amount in various currencies equivalent to six million 
seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR6,700,000) for  supplementing the original 
financing of the Project;
(ab)
“Uplands Fund” means the fund to be established as provided in paragraph 3 (d) 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to finance Subprojects; and
(ac)
“Uplands Fund Committee” means the committee referred to in Section 3.08 of 
this Agreement.”.
Section 1.03. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as 
follows:
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to thirty million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR30,200,000), consisting of the sum of  Tranche One and Tranche Two.”
Section 1.04. Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as 
follows: 
“Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if 
the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
consultants’ services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Page  6
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in its central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the 
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date 
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
(d)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all amounts withdrawn from the 
Credit Account or made subject to a special commitment pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall initially be charged against the Tranche One until that tranche has been 
exhausted, and shall thereafter be charged against the Tranche Two.”. 
Section 1.05.  The Closing Date stipulated in Section 2.03 of the Development Credit 
Agreement is hereby changed to January 31, 2004.
Section 1.06. A proviso is added before the semicolon at the end of Section 2.04 (b) (i) 
of the Development Credit Agreement, to read as follows:
“, except that any commitment charge on Tranche Two shall accrue from a date sixty 
days after the date of the Amending Agreement;”.
Section 1.07. Section 8.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as 
follows:
“Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretaría de Estado en el 
 Despacho de Finanzas
Tegucigalpa, MDC
Honduras
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
Hacienda
1308
504-238-2309
Tegucigalpa
FINANZAS
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  7
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)”.
Section 1.08.  Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended to read as set forth in Annex 1 to this Agreement.
Section 1.09. The date of expected Project completion shown at the bottom of Schedule 
2 to the Development Credit Agreement is hereby changed to July 31,2003.
Section 1.10. Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended to 
read as set forth in Annex 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until:
(a)
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the 
Association that the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the 
Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action;
(b)
the Project Implementation Manual, and the procedural manual referred to in 
Part B.4 of the Project, have been both amended, in form and  substance satisfactory to 
Association, 
inter alia
,
so as to show the detailed activities to be financed under the Project and 
their respective associated budgets, and to prioritize, out of the overall number of Subprojects to 
be financed with proceeds of the Uplands Fund under Part B.5 of the Project, an increase in the 
number of smallholder forestry-related extension and research Subprojects (hereinafter referred 
to as the Prioritized Subprojects); 
(c)
the Participation Agreement has been amended, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, so as to provide for a commitment from AFE-COHDEFOR,  as 
one of the Executing Entities, to a specific program to promote and facilitate access to the 
financing of Prioritized Subprojects with  proceeds of the Uplands Fund through 
AFE-COHDEFOR’s Social Forestry Department and the latter’s Regional Offices and their 
respective Forest Management Unit Offices (in connection with the aforesaid condition of 
effectiveness stipulated in this paragraph (c) and to the extent it may be required under the 
Participation Agreement or under the laws of the Borrower that the above mentioned 
commitments from AFE-COHDEFOR  shall be supported by the express consent of one or more 
other Executing Entities, as the case may be, such Executing Entity or Entities shall  co-sign the 
required amendments to the Participation Agreement); and
(d)
the PCU has submitted a plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, for: (i) the procurement of works, goods and services under the Project; (ii) 
maintaining, until completion of the Project, the organizational structure established in calendar 
Page  8
year 2001 for the procurement and financial management areas; and (iii) retaining international 
advisory support for the carrying out of Part A of the Project.      
Section 2.02.  As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section  2.01 (a) of this 
Amending Agreement there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on behalf of the 
Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed 
and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date 
upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower a notice of its acceptance of the evidence 
required by Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and effect by 
February 20, 2002, this Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall 
terminate, unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this 
Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development 
Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not 
been executed.
Page  9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Tegucigalpa, Honduras,  as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s/ Gabriela Nuñez de Reyes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Joseph M. Owen
Resident Representative
Annex 1
“1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
(a)
under Part A.3
2,058,000
85%
of the Project
(b) under Part B.1 
2,425,000
70%
of the Project
(c)
under Parts A.1
0
70%
and B.3 of the
Project
Page  10
(d) under Part E.2
2,400,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures and 100% 
of local expenditures for
works procured through 
the services of a tax-exempt
procurement agent
(e)
under other Parts 
830,000
85%
of the Project (other 
than Parts A.3, B.1, 
B.3 and E.2 of the 
Project)
(2)
Goods
(a)
under Parts A.2 (b),
1,217,000
100% of foreign
A.3 and A.4 (b)
)
expenditures and 100%
of the Project 
)
of local expenditures
)
for goods procured through
)
the services of a tax-exempt
)
procurement agent
(b) under other Parts  
1,620,000)
of the Project (other 
)
than Parts A.2 (b), 
)
A.3, A.4 (b) and
)
B.5 of the Project)
)
(3)
Consultant’s services
(a)
under Parts A.3  
4,470,000
100%
and A.4 (b) of the 
Project
(b) under Part B.3                1,950,000    
100%
of the Project
(c)
under other Parts 
3,800,000
100%
of the Project (other
than  Parts A.3,
A.4 (b), B.3, B.5 and
E.1 of the Project)
(d) under Part E.1   
351,000
100%
of the Project
(4)
Training
(a)
under Part A.3                   255,000     
100%
of the Project
Page  11
(b) under other Parts 
885,000
100%
of the Project (other
than Parts A.3
and B.5 of the 
Project)
(5)
Subprojects
4,640,000
100%
(6)
Salaries and Operating
Costs
(a)
under Part A.3
770,000
90% during the first four 
of the Project
years after the Effective 
Date; and 20% thereafter
(b) under other Parts
1,727,000
90% during the first four
of the Project (other
years after the Effective
than Part A.3
Date; and 20% thereafter
of the Project)
(7)
Refunding of
802,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) of
Advance
this Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
0
TOTAL
30,200,000”
. 
Annex 2
“SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member countries” 
and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
Page  12
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
(preference for domestically manufactured goods) shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
territory of the Borrower.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent but more than $25,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines; and
(b)
works (except as provided in Parts C.3 (b), C.4 and C.5 of this Section)  
estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more per contract shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(c)
procurement of all goods and works under Parts C.1 (a) and (b) above, shall be 
carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Association.
2.
National Shopping or International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national or international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
(a)
Works (except as provided in subparagraph (b) below and Parts C.4 and C.5 of 
this Section) estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $750,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors 
in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made 
to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work and who has the 
experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
(b)
Works under Part E.2 of the Project up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$800,000 shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from at least four qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor 
Page  13
who offers the lowest evaluated price quotation for the required work and who has the 
experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
4.
Force Account
Land surveying, land delineation on indigenous lands, silvicultural treatments, including, 
fire breaks, replanting, thinning, watershed stabilization, and other forest management activities 
under Parts A.1, A.2, B.2, B.3 and C.3 of the Project up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$4,000,000 equivalent may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be carried out by force 
account in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines.
5.
Community Participation
Works required for silvicultural treatment under Parts B.2, B.3 and C.3 of the Project up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 may be procured in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
Part D
: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part B.1 of 
this Section; and (b) the first two contracts for goods and the first two contracts for works to be 
awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
:
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the 
World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant 
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard 
form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as 
shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have 
been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
In paragraph 1.02 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
Page  14
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the 
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, 
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not 
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
less than $20,000 equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior Association review shall not 
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single source selection of firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Association; (d) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or more; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $20,000 equivalent or more.
4.
Consultants’ services required for Subprojects shall be procured in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association. 
Section III
.
Special Provisions
A.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall expressly govern all 
procurement of goods and works referred to in Part C.2 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid in accordance with criteria set 
forth in the bidding documents, and without taking into account, in the evaluation, the financial 
cost of foreign exchange components.
2.
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to:
(a)
be registered in Honduras;
(b)
have a representative in Honduras;
(c)
be associated with Honduran suppliers or contractors; and
(d)
certify that, in their country of origin, Honduran suppliers or contractors are 
allowed to participate in competitive bidding procedures under equal conditions with other 
bidders.
3.
Contracts shall not be divided for the sole purpose of reducing contract amounts.
B.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall expressly govern all 
procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultants shall be permitted to participate in the selection process even if there 
is availability of Honduran consultants for the services being procured.
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered with Honduran associations or 
Page  15
to be associated with Honduran consulting firms as a condition for participating in any selection 
process.”.
