                                               Document of
                                            The World Bank

                                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                         Report No: 37848

                              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (PPFI-P9660 IDA-30420)

                                                   ON A

                                                  CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 55.1 MILLION

                                                  TO THE

                                         REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA

                                                  FOR A

                                 POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                             October 30, 2006




Africa Energy Team
Infrastructure Family
Africa Region



 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
 official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective )

                            Currency Unit = Kwacha
                                     1KW = US$ 0.0003
                                    US$ 1 = 3870KW

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                April 1   March 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD         Agence Française de Développement (French Agency for Development)
AfDB        African Development Bank
BIS         Business Information System
CPMCB       Community Participation, Mobilization, and Capacity Building
DO          Developement Objective
DBSA        Development Bank of South Africa
EIB         European Investment Bank
ERB         Energy Regulation Board
ESAU        The Environmental and Social Affairs Unit
ESU         Environmental and Social Affairs Unit
FINNIDA     Finnish International Development Agency
FSC         Fiscal Sustainability Credit
GT          Gwenbe-Tonga Region
GTDP        Gwembe-Tonga Development Project
HIPC        Highly Indebted Poor Countries
ID          Institutional Development
IDA         International Development Association
KWh         Kilowatt/hour
MEWB        Ministry of Energy and Water Development
MW          Megawatt
NDF         Nordic Development Fund
NORAD       Norwegian Agency for Development
OPPPI       Office for Promoting Private Power Investment
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PRP         Power Rehabilitation Project
PIRCII      Second Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit
QAG         Quality Assurance Group
SIDA        Swedish International Development Co-operation Agency
US$c/kWh    US cents per kilowatt-hour
WASP        Wien's Automatic Systems Program
ZESCO       Zambia's Electricity Supply Corporation
ZMAC        Zambian Mine Action Center
ZRA         Zambezi River Authority



                          Vice President:       Gobind Nankani
                        Country Director        Michael Baxter
                          Sector Manager        Subramaniam V. Iyer
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Samuel O'Brien-Kumi

                                           ZAMBIA
                                POWER REHABILITATION


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             37
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             39
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            43
Annex 8. Additional Key Performance Indicators                                   44
Annex 9. ZESCO Commercialization Roadmap                                         46
Annex 10. Detailed Borrower/Implementing Agency Contribution                     47
Annex 11. MAP                                                                    70

Project ID: P035076                                                  Project Name: ZM-Power Rehab SIL (FY98)
Team Leader: Samuel A. O'Brien-Kumi                                  TL Unit: AFTEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 31, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: ZM-Power Rehab SIL (FY98)                                L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P9660; IDA-30420
   Country/Department: ZAMBIA                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Power (96%); Roads and highways (1%); Water supply (1%); General agriculture, fishing and
                            forestry sector (1%); Health (1%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Other financial and private sector
                            development (P); Water resource management (P); Rural services and infrastructure (S); Other
                            rural development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/05/1995                                     Effective: 06/30/1998                03/02/1999
     Appraisal: 08/05/1997                                         MTR: 05/15/2000                  05/15/2003
      Approval: 02/19/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Zambia/Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation (ZESCO)
                      Other Partners:      EIB, DBSA, NORAD, AFD, SIDA, NFD, FINNIDA

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankani                                 Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               Michael Baxter                                 Phyllis Pomerantz
Sector Manager:                 Subramaniam V. Iyer                            Mark Tomlinson
Team Leader at ICR:             Samuel O'Brien-Kumi                            Donal O'Leary
ICR Primary Author:             Richard Berney


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: U                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
        At the time of the project preparation, there had been no major investment in repair and maintenance of
    Zambia's power generation and transmission system in over 25 years. Some of these units had been in
    operation, without major overhauls, since the 1950s. The equipment was deteriorating and system reliability
    was rapidly declining. Distribution loses, which had been 10.1% in 1988/89, had risen to 28.4% in 1994/95.
    On an institutional level, the national power company, ZESCO, was in dire financial straits. It had incurred
    financial losses in five of the six previous years, even though depreciation was based on historical costs and
    maintenance expenditures were limited.

    At the time of project identification, the Bank was acting as a catalyst of reform for the sector, working to
    build a consensus among various stakeholders in the reform process, including greater participation by the
    private sector.

        The overall objective of the Power Rehabilitation Project (PRP) was to enhance the ability of Zambia's
    electricity supply industry to provide electricity at least-cost and in an efficient and sustainable manner. To
    assist in realizing this objective, the Project supported programs to:
        (a) Implement the Government's policy of establishing an institutional and regulatory framework
        conductive to sustainable efficiency and private participation in the power sector;
        (b) Improve the efficiency of Zambia's Electricity Supply Corporation (ZESCO).
        (c) Ensure ZESCO's financial viability;
        (d) Improve technical efficiency, quality and reliability of electricity supply in ZESCO's physical system,
        through rehabilitation of and loss reduction in the existing generation, transmission and distribution
        system; and
        (e) Implement a rehabilitation and environmental management plan for the people of Gwembe-Tonga,
    who were forcibly displaced and improperly resettled as a result      of the creation of the Kariba Dam, which
    the Bank helped finance in the 1950s.

3.2 Revised Objective:
         The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
   l    Rehabilitation of Zambia's three major hydropower facilities (i) Kafue Gorge (6x150 MW), (ii) Victoria
        Falls (108 MW), and (iii) Kariba North Bank (4x150 MW), and implementation of dam safety program
        for the Kariba Dam
   l    The Rehabilitation of the distribution systems of Lusaka, Kitwe and Ndola, and Loss reduction programs
   l    Rehabilitation of Zambia's transmission network
   l    Rehabilitation and Environmental Mitigation of Gwembe-Tonga Region, including (i) rebuilding the
        "Bottom Road", which paralleled the north shore of the Kariba Reservoir (365 km); (ii) building 10
        dams/weirs; (iii) establishing a Rural Electrification network, especially along the lake formed by Kariba
        Dam; (iv) rehabilitating drinking water systems for two communities; (v) drilling 30 water wells; (vi)
        building four health centers and one secondary school; (vii) establishing an agricultural improvement
        program, including extension services and providing seed grain and fertilizers and associated training
   l    Strengthening of ZESCO's Environmental-Social Affairs Unit
   l    Capacity Building for ZESCO (including Project Management Unit)

3.4 Revised Components:
   l    Although none of the project components financed by IDA were revised, ZESCO decided to include
        repowering of the generation plants at Kariba North Bank and Kafue Gorge power stations to increase the
        power generating capacity by 120 MW and 90 MW respectively, at the same time as the rehabilitation, to
        avoid having to shut down the units a second time for repowering. The repowering is being financed by
        loans provided by the European Investment Bank (EIB) and Development Bank of South Africa (DBSA).
        There was, therefore, some reallocation of financing between IDA and DBSA.



                                                          - 2 -

   l      About 355 km of access roads were added to the Gwenbe-Tonga Bottom Road subproject component.
          These roads were to link the displaced communities to the original 365 km trunk road that runs parallel to
          the Kariba Lake (the Bottom Road). However, funding for this component, beyond the detailed
          engineering design, did not become available.
   l      A US$40,000 HIV/Aids awareness campaign program was added to the Gwembe-Tonga activities.
   l      A midterm review was held in May 2003, at which time it was agreed to reallocate the various project
          components among the three major funding agencies (IDA, DBSA and EIB), so that IDA funds could be
          used for components that were most likely to be completed before the revised closing date of December 31,
          2004.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
     The project's quality at entry is Unsatisfactory.
     Background
           The project identification mission visited Zambia in February 1993. It was looking for ways to improve
    the performance of Zambian public utilities, in the context of IDA's efforts to support parastatal reform and
    privatization. The initial project brief was issued in June 1995, and the preappraisal mission commenced in
    May 1997.

           ZESCO's Financial Condition: ZESCO's tariffs were very low, below cost-of-service, and overdue
    payments, especially from parastatals, municipalities, water utilities, central government, and even
    households, were exceptionally high. A one time debt clearance mechanism between Government agencies
    and ZESCO was to be a condition of negotiations. However, neither a mechanism to avoid a repeat of this
    situation nor a method for establishing an adequate tariff structure were conditions in project conditionality.

           Sector Restructuring: Considerable emphasis was put on sector reform through the introduction of a
    Performance Contract, which was also a condition of the last tranche of the Privatization and Industrial
    Reform Credits (C2323-PIRC II). It was expected that ZESCO would be reorganized as a commercial entity,
    with separate profit centers for distribution areas, transmission, and generation plants, and that a study of
    unbundling into these activities would be undertaken. However, the requirement to unbundle was not
    included as a project conditionality.

           Gwembe-Tonga: Development of the Kariba Dam in the 1950s, which had led to the displacement of
    the Gwembe-Tonga communities took place before the introduction of the Bank's Resettlement Guidelines.
    During project identification, and in the context of rehabilitating the Kariba North Bank power station, IDA
    undertook to include a project component to assist in improving the socioeconomic conditions of the
    communities. To identify an appropriate and feasible set of activities to this end, IDA requested ZESCO to
    establish an Environmental and Social Affairs Unit (ESU) to develop, inter alia, an action plan to address the
    socioeconomic problems of the displaced population. However, the project did not initially include an
    investment component to support this action plan. It was not until shortly before appraisal that US$5 million
    in "seed money" (US$4.5 million from DBSA and US$0.5 million from IDA) was included for a
    Gwembe-Tonga Development Project (GTDP) component. Without undertaking a detailed investigations, IDA
    estimated the cost of this component at US$15.1 million. The PAD recognized the existence of a large
    funding gap for this component, and expressed the hope that additional resources would become available to
    fill this financial gap. However, while IDA enlisted ten agencies to provide financing for the core investment
    program and related technical assistance for institutional strengthening, it was unable to identify a source for
    the additional financing for GTDP. At negotiations, the government undertook to provide the financing for the
    GTDP.

    Quality at Entry Evaluation
          QAG's Quality at Entry review of Oct 19, 1999, highlighted the problems that were likely to arise
    because of the appraisal's failure to come to grips with, and find solutions for, ZESCO's financial problems.
    As QAG noted, one result of this weak financial condition was that much of the cofinancing needed to
    implement the project had yet to be confirmed. QAG also commented negatively on the project's excessive
    credit conditionalities, the many cofinanciers, overly optimistic development objectives, and overall lack of


                                                          - 3 -

    readiness for implementation, all of which were exacerbated by the project's technical, organizational and
    institutional complexity, as well as ZESCO's lack of experience in managing large, technically challenging
    investment projects.

         Project effectiveness took one year, primarily because Government was unable to take the steps necessary
    to meet the cross effectiveness conditions associated with six of the nine other cofinanciers. None of these
    non-IDA conditions were described in the appraisal documentation. As a result, the risks to project
    implementation were not reviewed, and risk mitigation measures to minimize the potential delays were not
    considered. The major problem was that DBSA's lending process required complex security provisions because
    its loans were made directly to ZESCO without Government guarantees. These conditions proved extremely
    difficult for the Government to fulfill, as they were related to debts due ZESCO from some of the
    Government's bankrupt copper mines. Eventually, a mutually agreed withdrawal of these cross-conditionality
    conditions had to be arranged to get implementation started.

         Technical Preparation was inadequate. The appraisal schedule for this project was too short to provide
    sufficient time for the detailed technical scoping of the work needed for rehabilitating the hydropower plants.
    At the Kafue Gorge hydropower site, the consultant decided not to run tests of the equipment to determine the
    most probable scope of the refurbishing work that needed to be done, taking the position that when the
    machinery was opened, the full scope of the needed work would be identified.
         The Appraisal failed to recognize that power rehabilitation projects take longer to implement than green
    field projects. As a result, this extra time requirement was not factored into the project implementation
    schedule, nor was the impact it had on scheduling unit outages in a system that had virtually no reserve
    margin.

          Important technical alternatives were not evaluated. The repowering the Kafue Gorge and Kariba North
    Bank power plants (increasing their generating capacity by approximately 20%) at the same time as the
    rehabilitation work was not considered in the WASP model. Repowering should have been on the least cost
    development path, since it cost only about US$200,000 per MW, compared to new hydroelectric projects in
    Zambia which were estimated to cost US$800,000 to US$1,000,000 per kW.

         The cost for the GTDP were not carefully analyzed and were greatly underestimated. For instance, the
    PAD estimated the cost of the gravel 365 km Bottom Road to be $2.4 million ($6,500 per km). The current
    estimated cost of the road, including approximately 355 km of feeder roads (720 km in total), is $120 million
    ($170,000 per km).

         The GTDP component was only partially funded under the project. Only $5.0 million in resources were
    identified to cover the even the original under-estimated component cost of $15.1 million.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the physical objective to enhance the ability of the Zambian electricity industry to provide
electricity at least cost and in an efficient manner is judged to be satisfactory. The project's impact on the
objective of creating sustainable energy institutions through sector policy reform is judged to be unsatisfactory.
         The implementation of the project's physical objectives is satisfactory. The distribution components are
completed. The power rehabilitation components appear to be on track to be completed when the re-powering of
the hydropower plants are fully completed by early-2009. The establishment and implementation of a modern
Business Information System (BIS) is already having a significant impact on ZESCO's internal operations and
decision making, and is expected to substantially improve the efficiency of ZESCO's operations. Costs are
substantially higher than estimated at appraisal, primarily because the technical appraisal process was flawed, with
the resulting high contingencies, and other cost push influences, including inflation during the period of project
delays, and the addition of a re-powering component, and the much longer time needed to complete the
rehabilitation and re-powering activities, than was originally estimated.




                                                         - 4 -

          The project's sector policy and institutional restructuring objectives, which focused primarily on
establishing an institutional and regulatory framework conductive to sustainable efficiency and private
participation in the sector, have not been achieved, nor has the objective of establishing a rational tariff structure
and the financial viability of ZESCO been achieved, as described in Section 4.5.

4.2 Outputs by components:
          Victoria Fall Hydropower Station Rehabilitation: (Appraisal estimate US$20.0 million, actual cost
US$49.1 million) Outcome is Satisfactory
          All facilities have been refurbished and commissioned, with about 115% cost-overrun. Environmental
work, including slope protection work and relocation of the scour siphon discharge out of sight of the falls area, is
completed satisfactorily. Employees have not yet moved from this National Heritage Site to the nearby town.
Generation capacity is now at its original level of 108 MW.

          Kafue Gorge Hydropower Station Rehabilitations: (Appraisal estimate $21.0 million, revised estimated
cost to completion $68.7 million, of which rehabilitation works would be US$42.5 million and re-powering
US$26.2 million) Outcome is expected to be satisfactory
          As a result of the combined rehabilitation and re-powering, the expected total output of the power station
will increase from 900 MW to nearly 1,000 MW. Unit commissioning is expected in stages, with units 3 and 4
expected to be completed by end-November 2006, units 1&2 in July 2007; and units 5&6 in March 2008. The
appraisal estimate was to complete the rehabilitation works by end-December 2003. The extended period of the
completion of the works is due to the delays arising from the inadequate technical appraisal, which led to the need
for several time consuming and expensive change orders, the multitude of contract packages, with a total of six
contractors working on the units, which created problems of coordinating the activities resulting in schedule
changes, and significant cost increases. However, the work being carried out meets the highest quality of
internationally accepted plant refurbishment standards, and the refurbished and repowered units are expected to
meet the required performance criteria of high availability, and sustained reliable level of output. DBSA is
financing the re-powering works, and has extended its credit closing date to end-December 2008.

          Kariba North Bank Hydropower Station Rehabilitation: (Appraisal estimate US$26.8 million, Revised
total estimated cost to completion of US$79.0 million, of which US$31 million is the rehabilitation component)
Outcome is expected to be Satisfactory
          The Mechanical and Civil Works were all completed satisfactorily by September 2003. Rehabilitation and
the re-powering of the generating units was awarded as a single responsibility contract, which to a large extent
reduced the problems the attendant cost increases associated with management of multiple contracts involving
several contractors would have caused. The rehabilitation works on Unit 1 took about 2.5 years to complete, and
the lessons learned helped to establish, more reliably, the scope of rehabilitation of the remaining units.. The
addition of re-powering added to the delays due to the time it took to complete the financing arrangements.
Works have been completed on Units 1 & 2, and are fully operational as expected at the new rated capacity of 180
MW each. Unit 3 is expected to be commissioned in February 2008, and Unit 4 in February 2009.            The
rehabilitation will restore the power plant to its original installed capacity, and the re-powering will add on a total
of 120 MW to a new total plant installed capacity of 720 MW, at an incremental cost of about US$200/kW. Due to
the contracting approach adopted and the proper assessment of rehabilitation requirements at an early stage,
cost-overruns are expected to be about 20%, which is not excessive for rehabilitation works of this nature.
Financing is being provided by DBSA, EIB and ZESCO.

          Transmission System Rehabilitation and Upgrading: (Appraisal Estimate $34.0 million, Actual cost $28.2
million) Outcome is highly satisfactory
          All transmission components have been completed and are in successful operation. Rehabilitation of
330/220 kV Substations, with upgrading of circuit breakers, replacement of PCB filled capacitors, and upgrading
controls including modern microprocessors to allow for remote control by National Control Center. A 42 km 330
KV Transmission line and associated substations was completed in July 2002 (about nine months behind schedule
due to problems in securing right-of-way clearances), and about 20% below appraisal cost estimate.

          Lusaka Distribution upgrading and SCADA System: (Appraisal Estimate $28.2 million, Actual cost $24.7


                                                           - 5 -

million) Outcome is highly satisfactory
          Upgrading of the Lusaka Distribution System was completed in September 2000. The Roma substation on
the outskirts of Lusaka was rehabilitated in 2005. The Copperbelt Distribution System Rehabilitation, which
included the networks of the Kitwe and Ndola areas were rehabilitated on time and within budget. The original
scope of the switch-gear component, which was limited to the refurbishment of existing equipment, was changed
when ZESCO found that it could purchase new switch-gear equipment at the same cost. However, in the bidding
documents, the technical capability to integrate the new equipment with the old system was not explicitly
mentioned, and the contractor's lack of experience with the old system proved to be a serious problem,
significantly delaying the completion of this component.

          A Telecommunications and National Control Center was completed in December 2000. It has been a
major element in improving the efficiency of the transmission system. However, insufficient attention was placed
on the problems of integrating the old and new system, and this component also had significant teething problems
caused by the contractor's lack of experience with the existing system with which it had to be integrated. This
problem has been resolved, the new system is now work efficiently. As an example of its usefulness, it has enabled
ZESCO to react quickly to local power outages, and restore power within minutes instead of the hours it took
previously. An opportunity to demonstrate the ultimate effectiveness of the new system came when Zambia
experienced a country-wide blackout in December 2005, as a result of a rain induced landslide that knocked out of
commission several hundred megawatts of generating power at the Kafue Gorge hydropower station. The new
system allowed ZESCO to bring the entire system back on line in only one hour.

          All transformers using PCBs were replaced and two PCB Storage disposal facilities were built. PCBs
from all the project related sites are currently being stored in these facilities in UN approved drums according to
the most up-to-date international standards. However, disposal requires highly specialized facilities which are not
available in Africa. When all the PCBs are collected from the ZESCO and the Copper field's transmission and
distribution systems, ZESCO intends to contract an international firm to transport them to Europe for incineration
at specialized facilities. ZESCO has not yet identified a source of funding for this expensive undertaking. IDA will
need to follow-up to ensure that this process is completed.

          Kariba Dam Safety: Outcome is Satisfactory
          The Bank was concerned about the possibility that a failure of the Kariba dam, with its 180 km long
reservoir, could be catastrophic. Although the independent Zambezi River Authority (ZRA) conducts annual
surveys and five year detailed surveys with international consultants, it was agreed to implement a Bank-supported
international consultant study covering all dam safety issues. The study was completed and ZRA has incorporated
the key recommendations into their ongoing safety action program, and is upgrading the key physical structures to
enhance safety.

          Customer Services Management: Outcome is Satisfactory
          A French government grant of FRF 20 million financed the services of a consultant to: (i) undertake a
customer service diagnostic, (ii) recommend ways to improve customer service, and (iii) operate and manage the
Lusaka West Region's customer service as a pilot project. Although, the diagnostic was completed, the operation
and management arrangement fell through due to relational difficulties that arose with ZESCO, as well as
difficulties posed by an inadequate Customer Information System. Nevertheless, some important achievements
were made: (i) two client service centers were established and are currently operating well; (ii) bulk metering
points and one and three phase meters were installed along with a meter testing units; and (iii) 1000 prepayment
meters were supplied, of which 900 have been installed, and (iv) a door to door survey of household customers was
carried out to be replicated in the other distribution areas. In addition, metering of customers has significantly
been expanded, customer information errors have been greatly reduced, and disconnection of illegal connection is
being enforced, substantially reducing nonpayment problems. As a result of these and other measures, distribution
losses in the West Lusaka Region have been reduced from 34% to 18%.

          ZESCO's Business Information System (BIS): Outcome is Highly Satisfactory
          The introduction of a modern, efficient BIS has greatly improved the prospects for a more efficient
ZESCO operations and management. It is designed to support a change in ZESCO's institutional structure and


                                                           - 6 -

corporate culture through improved data processes and management control and analysis of company activities and
problems. The billing system and finance modules were rolled out in late 2004. Modules for plant and equipment
maintenance management, personnel management, customer service system were rolled out in March 2005.
Modules for payroll, equipment repair and maintenance, transport maintenance and control, and supplies
procurement and stock management are being rolled out in 2006. This integrated system appears to be highly
successful. This new data control system has allowed ZESCO to consolidate information quickly, so that, for
instance, they expect to be able to get their accounts audited within 6 months, for the second year in row. ZESCO
staff have become highly proficient at utilizing the system, and are providing training to the Mozambique and
Malawi Power companies in its use. Further enhancements to the system is in progress for executive management
information which will consolidate information needed to identify problems for action, and for treasury functions
for better management of company cash-flows.

          Training: Outcome is Satisfactory
          The project supported several training programs in technical, financial and economic areas, project
implementation management, as well as in changed-management for corporate management staff and the Board
commensurate with modern utility operations. Noticeable improvements have been realized in customer relations,
project management, business planning process, and in technical operations. ZESCO power plant operating staff
worked in close collaboration with contractors on the rehabilitation and re-powering of the units, which has greatly
improved capacity in plant operations and maintenance.

          Gwembe-Tonga Development Project (GTDP): (Appraisal Estimate $15.1 million; Revised estimate to
completion US$172;Actual expenditures $12.3 million - including $0.5 million from ZESCO, $4.9 million from
the Government, $5.2 million from IDA, and$1.7 million from DBSA) The outcomes of all the components funded
under the project are judged satisfactory
          Although the project's efforts at rehabilitation and environmental management for the GT people have
been only partially achieved, those components that were financed under the project are, for the most part,
expected to provide significant results on the ground. However funding was far less than that needed to implement
all of the physical components listed in PAD and the latest revision of the scope of this project component.

          Little was achieved on this project component until a new supervision team refocused the Government's
attention on it during a supervision mission in late 2003. In early 2004, the Government presented a detailed and
comprehensive forward-looking program and renewed its commitment to implement all of the remaining
components in the following 5-8 years, and to sustain the achievements on those subproject components that were
completed. For the first time a significant allocation was made in the 2006 budget for initiation of works on the
roads network. The Government has indicated that it intends to seek support from IDA and other donors active in
the social and infrastructure sectors in Zambia in the implementation of the program.

          The Bottom Road: Highly Unsatisfactory
          The engineering design is completed, but physical works have yet to pick up in a significant way due to
financing constraints. Because of the significant funding required, about $127 million, there is the risk that
construction may fall further into abeyance if there is no strong government commitment and concerted
momentum behind its implementation.

          Rural Electrification: Satisfactory
          About 110 km of lines have been strung to provide electricity to communities along the lake shore. In
addition, four clinics, a number of elementary schools, and one secondary school have been electrified. In
addition, solar photo-voltaic powered water pumps have installed for a number of community drinking water wells.
The availability of electricity has also improved commercial activities in the communities along the stretch of the
power line through the connection of shops and milling plants. The lack of roads on which vehicles could
transport poles and materials, as well as the lack of funds from the Rural Electrification Fund has severely limited
the expansion of the electrification program. About $12 million will be required to complete the remaining
electrification program.

          Water Supply: Satisfactory



                                                           - 7 -

         A water supply system which is delivering purified water to pipe stands for a community of about 14,000
people, who have faced acute drinking water problems for years has been completed and is working satisfactorily.
Of the original program to build 10 dams/weirs for watering livestock, the available funding ($1.2 million) was
sufficient for only two dams and one weir. These have been constructed and are in the process of being filled. The
tubewell drilling program has been financed directly by ZESCO. Twenty-eight of the 30 wells have been drilled.
Only three were dry. ZESCO has also agreed to finance 12 more tubewells in 2006.

         Food Security: Unsatisfactory
         Plans were developed for rain-fed agriculture, irrigated crop production, recession agriculture, livestock
management, small fisheries, pest control, land management, and crop storage. However, results on the ground
have not met expectations due to severe drought. The Rain-fed agriculture component was designed to provide
agricultural inputs to 12,000 households over three cropping season. A total of 81 agricultural cooperatives were
established and trained to support the program. 12,000 farmers received agricultural input, including 30 imported
bulls distributed for the breeding improvement program, and drugs to improve livestock health. A revolving fund is
to be established to continue funding the purchase of drugs. Ten dams have been stocked with fingerling fish. The
Irrigated Crop Production program, which was to be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of
Water, has shown no significant progress to date. No work has been done on pest management, crop storage,
contract farming, land management improvement, and off­farm income generation.

         Community Participation, Mobilization, Capacity Building and HIV/Aids Awareness Campaign:
Satisfactory
         The communities have become more assertive in decisions concerning the implementation of the GT
program, and the overall impacts of the HIV/Aids awareness campaign can be judged as effective based on
discussions with the community representatives on the Steering and Implementation Committees of the GT
program. They have been more aggressive in sensitizing Government of their plight , and are receiving attention.
High level community delegations have met with visiting Bank missions, and the Country office in Lusaka to
discuss assistance from both the Bank and other donors for continuation of implementation of the program. The
HIV/Aids awareness campaign was conducted with community participation, and is expected to continue under the
Ministry of Health.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
         The Appraisal team undertook a detailed set of ERR calculations for each of the six project components,
which showed the ERRs were all above the opportunity cost of capital of 10-12%. The assumptions and the
methodological approach was based on the use of the WASP computer model in an ttempt to establish the
least-cost justification. The justification for such an approach is doubtful, considering also the weaknesses of the
WASP model in planning predominantly hydro systems such as that of Zambia. A more simple approach
compartive cost analysis of alternatives to rehabilitation could have been carried out instead. The expected outputs
from the rehabilitated plants were not spelled out for understanding of how the benefits were evaluated. It was
mnot possible or nether useful to repeat the methodoligical approach in the PAD. For the re-assessment of the
economic justification of the physical project components, alternative method of screening curve analysis was used
to establish the rehabilitation sa the least-cost option. The benefits were taken as outputs of the rehabilitated power
plants, valued at the marginal cost of generation (UScents3.5/kWh), and those of transmission and distribution
were taken as increased sales from improved reliability, reduction in outages and technical losses. Expected
benefits from repowering would have further boosted economic returns, but are considered in the comaprison with
appraisal estimates. Moreove, since the methodological approaches are diffrent in the evaluation of the economic
merit of the rehabilitation, the results are not necessarily comparable. This further discussed in Annex 3. Details of
calculation are available in the Files.

                                      APPRAISAL                ACTUAL/EXPECTED
                             ENPV
                            US$'000           ERR              ENPV             ERR
     Generation
       Victorian Falls      15,617            31.5%            23,106           25%
       Kafue George         16,484            36.9%            245,465          57%



                                                           - 8 -

       Kariba North          32,008             50.1%           154,040           50%
     Transmission
       Lusaka                44,960             30%             46,000            35%
       Ndola                 18,196             36.5%           22,000            38%
       Kitwe                  7,878             20.1%            9500             22%
       TOTAL                 160,075            29.0%           180,945           35%


4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

          Energy Sector Institutional Strengthening: The Project's Overall ID Impact has been Negligible
          On the first supervision mission after the project was declared effective, IDA found that the Government
and ZESCO had no consistent view about the appropriate structure of the power sector, and not in agreement on a
framework for the implementation of the hydro and transmission policy outlined in the Government's Statement of
Sector Policy agreed to at negotiations. Nor had the Government agreed to establish an office for promoting private
power investment (OPPI), since there was little support for private development of hydro and transmission or the
privatization of any part of ZESCO. Although this change in policy had no effect on IDA's rating of the project's
Development Objectives (DO), this rating was downgraded to unsatisfactory for about a year during 2000-2001, as
a result of the Government's excessive delays in fulfillment of a 1999 dated covenant concerning settlement of
debts of copper companies, incurred during the drawn-out process of their privatization.

          Strengthening the Energy Regulation Board (ERB): The ID Impact has been Modest to date
          The ERB was established as a condition of project preappraisal. It was expected to be the core sector
regulatory institution. Among its primary functions were: (i) enforcement of efficiency operations of the energy
sector entities in order to deliver reliable quality service to consumers, (ii) setting and regulating tariffs that allow
for viability of the sector entities, and (iii)create an environment conducive to private sector participation. These
objectives have not yet been achieved. As late as in mid-2003, IDA's supervision mission noted that barriers to
private sector participation include: (i) inadequate legal and regulatory framework and enforcement; (ii) tariffs
lower than the cost of supply; and (iii) absence of a specific policy for access to the transmission system for
independent power producers and regulated transmission prices. These barriers continue to exist today.

          ERB has been slow to approve tariff increases, and its tariff decisions have consistently favored minimal
tariff adjustments at the expense of ZESCO's financial viability. The result has been that during the years
2000-2005, when inflation was about 220 percent, electricity prices were adjusted by only 70 percent. In addition,
ERB established low-priced lifeline tariffs for consumption up to the level of 300 kWh a month, a level which is
greater than the total consumption of more than half of ZESCO's domestic customers. Issues that have not been
resolved include connection fees, rules for disconnecting for non-payment, and how to handle illegal connections.
Nor has the Government allowed ERB to participate in the negotiations on tariffs for new, large scale electricity
supply contracts, including, most importantly, to new copper mining operations and for cross border electricity
sales, even though these long term contracts will have a profound effect on the sector's financial viability and the
electricity prices that its other customers will have to pay to enable ZESCO to becomes financially viable.

          However, the revised ERB Act passed in November 2003 has enabled it to hire more professional staff,
strengthened its organizational structure, and, with the hiring of additional professional staff, enhance its
operational capacity. An international regulatory consulting firm has been engaged to assist in strengthening the
capacity and capability of ERB staff through training in all aspects of electric utility regulation to enable ERB to
be able to fully discharge its functions as the Electricity and Energy Regulatory Acts. As part of the assistance, to
develop a cost-of-service based tariff structure, and a framework for introducing the new tariff regime.

          Restructuring of ZESCO: The ID Impact has been Negligible
          The PRP's development objectives included improving ZESCO's performance through a


                                                            - 9 -

commercialization program based on corporate autonomy and management accountability, including separating
the accounting for generation, transmission and distribution.

         A three year performance contract was signed in late 1996, in compliance with the third tranche of the
ongoing Second Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit (PIRC II). However, the targets for this performance
contract were overly ambitions, and ZESCO failed to meet most of them. In 1999, a second performance contract
was signed. These targets were also highly unrealistic. They included a 6% return on assets, which would have
required an average price of 7.5 UScents/kWh, compared with then existing price of 2.1 UScents/kWh, and the
proposed one of 3.36 UScents/kWh. Neither the Government nor ZESCO management took the actions needed to
reach the targets, and over the next several years there was no measurable improvement in ZESCO's financial
performance.

         The lack of improvement in ZESCO's financial performance was brought to the fore again in the context
of the HIPC (Highly Indebted Poor Country debt reduction initiative) floating conditions and the release
conditions of the second tranche of the Fiscal Sustainability Credit (FSC). IDA, the IMF, and the Government
agreed on a new sector roadmap in late 2000, which was to include the creation of functionally independent
generation, transmission and distribution entities within ZESCO, with commercial arrangements between them, as
an important and critical step in the transition process towards private participation in the sector. It was also
agreed that if ZESCO management failed to achieve its performance targets by the evaluation endpoint (end 2005),
an alternative route, involving a more active private role in managing and operating ZESCO, would need to be
sought and embarked upon, in which case the trigger for HIPC completion point would be the issuance of bids for
selling off the majority interest in ZESCO.

         The Government took several steps to activate privatize sector participation, but the political consensus
on this shared vision of sector reform faltered after the elections of 2001. Although, the new administration
renewed its commitment to the Privatization Roadmap in its letter to IDA of 12 December 2002, it only did so after
IDA made the extension of the Project's closing date, which was on Dec 31, 2002, conditional on the
Government's formal commitment to this Privatization Roadmap. This
Roadmap included the privatization of ZESCO through a two-stage process. The first stage was a concession
agreement of not more than ten years, and the second stage was to be the sale or the concession of individual
independent business units, as recommended in a USAID-funded study. In January 2003, ZESCO's concession
advisors published a proposal to implement the Cabinet decision on the divestiture of Government's interest in
ZESCO. But in April 2003, only three months after its commitment to IDA, the Government rescinded its
privatization decision.

         There were several reasons for the Government's change in position, including: (i) a changed
international economic environment created by the retreat from developing countries of international private sector
companies; and (ii) a changed domestic political environment, with growing opposition to privatization, and
doubts about the concept of concessions after Anglo-American pulled out of a copper mining enterprise.

          Since the HIPC end-point conditions were no longer acceptable to the Government, IDA and the IMF
agreed to the Government's a revised commercialization Roadmap, which they hoped would achieve the same
objective of improving ZESCO's financial performance. The actions to achieving this objective were outlined in a
Commercialization Roadmap (Annex 9),to be implemented in three phases, the Entry Point minimum conditions,
including elimination of ZESCO's arrears, an Interim Point, to demonstrate the improvement of the regulatory
environment, and an Evaluation Point at which the commercialization process would be evaluated. The focus of
this Roadmap was primarily on establishing the appropriate governance environment, rather than on specific
company performance issues. This was a major deviation from the original approach, and, therefore, the outcome
could not have been expected to be similar. At the Evaluation Point, a decision was to be made, based on the
assessment of ZESCO performance under the Roadmap as to whether ZESCO could achieve commercialization as
expected or an alternative approach involving a more active private sector role was required. The HIPC
completion floating point condition for ZESCO commercialization was revised to require compliance by ZESCO
and Government with the Entry and Interim Point actions in the Roadmap, and the adoption by the ZESCO Board




                                                         - 10 -

of a ZESCO business plan acceptable to IDA and the IMF.

          Delays occurred in the implementation of the roadmap due to recurrent arrears build-up by central
government, parastatals, and water utilities, following the initial debt swaps. However, the HIPC trigger was met at
end-December 2004. The revised Evaluation End Point date, which was originally expected to be met in December
2005, is now November 30, 2006.

          Financial Viability: The ID Impact has been Negligible
          Appraisal projections showed a steady improvement in the financial position of ZESCO. The assumptions
on which the PAD projected a steady improvement in ZESCO's financial position included, tariff increases to all
customers, including the mines, completion of the rehabilitation works by end-2003, and improvements in overall
efficiency of operations due to the private concessioning of ZESCO. These assumptions have not materialized,
and ZESCO's financial performance has continued to deteriorate. Without the debt swaps to boost income, ZESCO
would have been incurring operating losses every year. ZESCO is currently unable to meet its obligations to its
trade creditors, and has resorted to borrowing at high cost from commercial banks to meet working capital
requirements. The main reasons are: (i) the low tariffs; (ii) imported electricity at much higher cost than existing
tariffs to substitute for domestic production, due to unavailability of the generating units under the on-going
rehabilitation and re-powering; (iii) recurring and increasing governmental agency arrears; and (iv) extension of
diesel-based rural electrification at higher cost (UScents 25-30/kWh) compared to the tariff charged to rural
consumers of UScents 2.5/kWh.

          The 2003 commercialization roadmap included a provision barring ZESCO from Government bailouts
for its losses, and government guarantee of its borrowings. Given ZESCO's weak financial position, these
conditions effectively deny ZESCO any avenue for raising long-term financing to support its major investment
programs. This has greatly increased the importance of foreign exchange revenues from the mining sector, since
they could provide security that the commercial banks need before they could fund ZESCO's investment and
working capital requirements. This built-in incentive for non-optimal economic decision making is likely to have
a further strong deleterious effect on ZESCO's long-term balance sheet and financial viability, and will make is far
more difficult to find the funds needed to maintain and grow its domestic distribution business.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
          The recent landslide that closed down the Kafue Gorge power plant has added 8 months to the completion
time of these rehabilitation and repowering works. As a result, ZESCO may have to continue to import electricity
at several times higher than its selling price.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
          The Government took a long time to resolve problems related to the debts of its bankrupt copper mining
entities, an issue which had to be resolved before DBSA was able to make effective its loan to ZESCO. This
delayed the effectiveness of the IDA loan by one year, and the DBSA loan by almost two years.

            The Energy Regulation Board has not allowed tariffs to be increased sufficiently for ZESCO to become
economically sustainable. Electricity tariffs had declined from an average of over 5 UScents/kWh in 1991 to only
slightly over 2 UScents/kWh in 1995, a level far below the long-term cost of generating and distributing electricity.
Since 1995, infrequent and often delayed tariff revisions by the ERB, have almost always been substantially less
than increases requested by ZESCO.       In addition, ERB introduced an unjustifiably high "lifeline" consumption
level for the lowest domestic tariff rate, which has contributed to ZESCO's financial difficulties. The continued
persistent arrears build-up by Governmental and quasi-governmental entities has also severely affect ZESCO's
cash-flow, and is a significant contributor to ZESCO's need to borrow from commercial banks at high cost.

          The Government has been unable to follow through on any of its plans for restructuring the electricity
sector. ZESCO is still a vertically integrated, monolithic power company that makes entry of the private sector
difficult.



                                                        - 11 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
          ZESCO has done a satisfactory job of implementing the physical components of the project. However,
ZESCO's management has put insufficient emphasis and manpower into its income generating activities. The
management is swayed by political tendencies on issues of making the appropriate tariff request, and sometimes
withdraws tariff requests after submission to the Regulator. ZESCO is also swayed by political decisions on
investments. ZESCO is improving its metering, billing and collection system, but, due to the lack of funds for
purchasing new meters, it is still connecting consumers without meters.

           For most of the project's duration, it has been unable to resolve customer service problems that have
greatly hampered its ability to reduce its distribution losses or to increase its bill collection rates. However, over the
last three years collections have increased from 50-60% to over 100 percent (including back payments), and the
introduction of the new BIS has allowed it to reduce its billing cycle from quarterly to monthly.

5.4 Costs and financing:
          The transmission rehabilitation components were competed below PAD cost estimates, but costs of
rehabilitating the hydroelectric plants have been substantially higher than estimated. The higher costs reflect the
appraisal's inadequate cost estimating process for these components, including the need for additional repair work
not identified during appraisal, delayed project effectiveness due to Government inaction on cross-covenants with
co-lenders that were unrelated to the power sector, and the addition of the repowering component that increased
generating capacity at a very low cost per KW. As a result, the cost of the Victoria Falls power station and the
Kafue Gorge power station more than doubled. The cost overrun of the Kariba North Bank power station
component is expected to be only about 20%, due to better specification of requirements at the outset, and the use
of a single contractor. ZESCO is self-financing its overrun costs through short-term commercial borrowing.

          The cost of the Gwenbe-Tonga components were grossly underestimated, primarily because no technical
evaluation was undertaken during the appraisal process. There was no financial plan for this component at
appraisal. It was, as a result, severely under-funded. Funding through a DBSA loan on quasi-commercial terms
(6% interest), to be repaid by ZESCO, was inappropriate for a social development project.

          The secured financing for the project was inadequate to cover all components. The cost over-runs on the
rehabilitation component were met through supplemental loans from DBSA and EIB, and by ZESCO through
expensive commercial bank loans. The allocation to the Gwembe-Tonga was made only after the allocation to all
other components. Government undertook to fund the implementation of the component, and has provided limited
funding in its current budget.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
          Sustainability is Unlikely
          Without improvements in its financial position, ZESCO is unlikely to be able to sustain its physical
infrastructure in good working condition. If adequate resources are not available in the future for spare parts, then
maintenance and repairs are likely to be postponed, as they were in the past, with heavy long-term declines in
system reliability. In addition, in the absence of surplus capacity, the pressure of financial problems will make it
difficult to shut down machines, even for low cost routine maintenance in an orderly and timely fashion, because
the cost of using imported power to replace the lost generation is more than ZESCO will be able to afford. This
problem will only be exacerbated in the future, if a lack of funds forces ZESCO to delay the implementation of its
expansion program. The tariff issue is a critical one, since about 60% of ZESCO's sales are to the mines at
long-term non-negotiable terms for 10-15 years. The increases in tariffs needed for ZESCO to achieve financial
viability, which would have to be borne by non-mining customers, would be extremely high and therefore
politically unfeasible. Thus, the sustainability of the project's physical achievements is at high risk in the longer
term.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:



                                                          - 12 -

         The transition program is satisfactory
         All rehabilitated, transmission lines and SCADA equipment are being operated by ZESCO's well-trained,
highly qualified staff. The Victoria Falls Generation plant is being operated effectively by ZESCO staff, who have
operated it for over 70 years. Generators at the Kariba North and Kafue Gorge plant for which rehabilitation and
repowering have been completed have been put back on stream without any problem. ZESCO has a well designed
long-term maintenance program integrated with its new Business Information System. The only question is
whether ZESCO will have the funds needed to implement this program.

         The Gwembe-Tonga project components that have been completed, including the drinking water
distribution system in Luwanda and the schools and health clinics have been turned over to Government agencies
after completion, but an institutional system to pay for their continued operation has yet to be adopted. This is a
particularly urgent problem for the water reticulation system, which needs continual resupply of consumables, and
needs to be overhauled every five years.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
         IDA support for Lending was Unsatisfactory
          IDA provided insufficient technical support during the appraisal process, particularly with respect to the
scoping of the work needed to rehabilitate the power generation units, possibly because the project team lacked
technical expertise related to power generation. During this process it failed to adequately supervise the TOR for
the engineering consultancy responsible for making the cost estimates. Instead, the appraisal team urged ZESCO
to firm up project component costs, so that the tight project processing timetable could be adhered to. As a result,
this work failed to include all the equipment testing needed to make a well reasoned estimate of what would have
to be done. Less than a month after Board presentation, the first supervision mission (a different team than the
appraisal team) was already raising concerns about risks of cost increases for rehabilitation of generating plants
where dismantling may reveal unexpected wear and tear requiring additional resources to carry out repairs.

         The WASP least cost generation expansion model used in the economic evaluation failed to examine the
technical alternative of repowering the Kafue Gorge and Kariba North Bank hydropower plants, even though the
cost of this repowering was less than one quarter the cost of new hydropower generation projects, and the cost of
doing the repowering at a later date would involve loss of production when each generator would again be shut
down for several months. It is not clear what use a WASP model can be for a pure hydro-based generating system.

         IDA failed to identify a consistent strategy to improve the lot of the Gwembe-Tonga people, beyond the
implementation of mostly isolated, independent sub-project components. It also failed to undertake a review of the
costs of the GTDP components possibly because project funding was supposed to provide only "seed money". This
"seed money" approach departed from the normal Bank policy of requiring a fully funded financial plan before
sending a project to the Board. The project subsequently faltered when no additional funds were attracted. The
massive discrepancy between the proposed funding and the actual cost of the Bottom Road raises beneficiary's
expectations, without any possibility for the PRP to meet these expectations through results on the ground.

         Notwithstanding IDA's official position that a power entity should be precluded from implementing
programs in support of the broader social interests of the Government unless properly compensated for these
activities, IDA allowed ZESCO to be the implementing agency for the GTDP components,including the
development of the Bottom Road and the Agricultural extension services, for which they had no expertise, and also
to take on the financial obligations of the $4.5 million DBSA loan component needed to start its implementation.

7.2 Supervision:
         IDA's Project Supervision was weak in the early years, but improved substantially in the latter years
after the mid-term review. On the whole, it is judged to be Satisfactory
         IDA sent supervision missions twice a year, and gave strong support to ZESCO's procurement efforts. It
also was flexible when confronted with major shifts in Government views on institutional reform, focusing on



                                                         - 13 -

issues that it believed critical for strengthening ZESCO. However, supervision was weak in several important
areas, most noticeably in support during the critical early years for the GTDP component.

          IDA also showed a lack of flexibility on both technical and institutional matters. When faced with the
urgent request to include the repowering of the generators along with the rehabilitation, the supervision team was
unwilling to modify the project scope definition to include this work. In fact, this issue was never raised in
supervision back-to-office reports or aide memoires. Interestingly, neither DBSA nor EIB had any problem with
this change.

          Eventually, later supervision teams showed flexibility and support for the repowering of the two power
plants by swapping contracts with DBSA on the works on Kafue Gorge power plant to enable ZESCO to fully
utilize the IDA credit allocation for the works completed prior to the closing date of the IDA credit. This avoided
the possibility of cancellation of portions of the IDA credit, which would otherwise have remained unutilized, and
for which ZESCO would have to resort to borrowing from commercial banks to fill the gap. The team also helped
ZESCO's PMU to focus on the major causes of the delays to identify them ahead and to take remedial actions. The
design of ZESCO's training program was refocused to address the skills gap in various aspects of utility operations
and management.

          IDA remained wedded to the concept of privatization (as the solution to ZESCO's problems financial) well
after this approach had been shown in other countries to have many flaws. In mid-2002, IDA pressed the
Government for a firm commitment for privatization as a condition for extending the upcoming end of the year
loan closing date, and continued to insist on it in the face of political events in Zambia and in the US that were
causing great concern about its viability in Governmental circles. These efforts proved of no lasting value, since by
early 2003 the Government officially reverted to its old position. By then, IDA no longer had the leverage to
achieve sector unbundling (into generation, transmission and distribution), so that they could, at a minimum,
become profit centers, at least for accounting purposes. This unsustainable optimistic view that, against all odds,
the Government would privatize ZESCO, also led IDA to reject ZESCO's request for financing a new BIS, that
was essential for adequate financial and management control of, among other things, billing and collections, and
improving institutional efficiency, on the grounds that the new independent owners/managers who might be in
place in two years, could then solve the problem by installing a system of their choosing.

          On the broader energy sector issues, which had been in abeyance for several years, active dialogue was
initiated with Government on the formulation of a new national energy policy in line with the macroeconomic
policy objectives for the sector, which is now providing the basis to address tariff and other issues constraining
efficient development of the sector. Progress on the GTDP greatly improved after the supervision team began to
focus on its implementation in the last two years of the project. Significant progress was also made after 2003 in
the restructuring and strengthening of the ERB.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
          Although the project design and preparatory lending activities were unsatisfactory, IDA's
supervision was able to greatly improve implementation performance in most areas. In addition, the Bank's
supervision missions have also been able to reopen and extend the dialogue with the Government on sector
policy. IDA overall performance is, therefore, judged Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
          Borrower support for project preparation was generally Satisfactory
          This was the first major investment project that ZESCO had implemented in over thirty years and
performance could have been improved if IDA had requested ZESCO to establish the PMU before Board
presentation. The technical appraisal was carried out by international consultant teams financed through bilateral
aid. Much of this work was carried out before the PIU was fully staffed. However, the PIU played a major part in
the preparation of final bidding documentation.




                                                          - 14 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
          The Government's implementation performance was highly unsatisfactory
          Most noticeably, the Government failed to take the actions required to enable ZESCO to start to become
financially viable. It continually delayed implementing its obligations to settle debts owed to ZESCO. It was unable
to get its institutions to pay their electricity bills in a timely manner, and after it had agreed to pay these bills from
the central budget, it was slow to allocate funds. The Government has also continued to treat ZESCO as a provider
of unremunerated services. For instance, in the past year ZESCO has complied with the Government request to
install two diesel set generators in remote locations, where power costs them 25-30 UScents per kWh, but where
they are allowed to charge only 2.5 UScents per kWh. In addition. MEWD often failed to exercise its project
responsibilities in a timely fashion, including those related to process payments requests. Although ZESCO did
prepare the bidding documents for the Kafue River Basin Environmental Impact Integrated study as requested
under the project, the MEWD never issued them.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
          ZESCO's overall performance has been satisfactory
            The PIU: Highly Satisfactory In addition to being ZESCO's first major investment project in 30 years,
this project was ZESCO's first exposure to the Bank's procurement guidelines, as well as the staff's first
experience working with foreign companies. Formal training started only in 2000. By that time, the PIU had
already done some of the prequalification and had started the tender documents. The training was good, but timing
was poor: key staff were doing bid packaging and evaluation before they understood all the rules. Considering the
limited support from IDA staff, the PIU came up to speed quite quickly, and did a highly satisfactory job.

          The Environmental and Social Affairs Unit (ESU): Highly Satisfactory
          ESU has received strong support from ZESCO management. Its activities have been mainstreamed within
the organization, and it has implemented several EIAs for new projects, completed the PCB handling program, and
established protocols for waste management. The mid-term review of the project's environmental performance
found that the staff of ZESCO's ESU were dedicated and skilled environmental and social scientists, who had
become well integrated into the ZESCO organization and had earned the respect of their fellow ZESCO
counterparts. They also found that ESU was highly regarded by the Environmental Council of Zambia for its
ability to provide directives and advice to ZESCO.

          Management support for restructuring and financial viability: Unsatisfactory
          ZESCO's performance on the financial side, especially its relationship with the ERB has been weak.
ZESCO has yet to create a dedicated department to work on preparing substantive, documented cases for their
tariff increase requests, which may reflect the lack of priority that its management places on financial and
commercial affairs. Senior management has, for the most part, reflected the Government's ambivalence to sector
restructuring. In addition, the changes of commercialization approaches also created confusion on the sense of
direction, and what was required to be done.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
          The Overall performance is judged as Unsatisfactory
          While ZESCO has implemented the project's physical components in a satisfactory manner, the
Government has failed to satisfactorily implement sector institutional reforms. Institutional reform efforts failed
both in terms of restructuring the sector by privatizing, commercializing, or unbundling sector activities, and in
terms of establishing a tariff regime that would allow ZESCO to improve its long term financial viability. Since
this institutional strengthening was a key element in the project design, the Borrower's overall performance is
judged unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

   l     ZESCO's financial situation is unsustainable, and will, if allowed to continue, undermine its
         commercialization efforts and the viability of the power sector. There is urgent need for action on tariffs,
         including re-opening of the sales contracts with the mines, without which tariffs to households and other
         non-mining customers would have to be nearly tripled for ZESCO to attain minimal financial viability.



                                                              - 15 -

       Such inequitable increases would have adverse economic and social impacts, and may be politically
       untenable.

   l   Critical policy actions need to be addressed up-front, and implemented before the project becomes effective.
       Otherwise governments may change and the entire sector policy dialogue has to start again from scratch.

   l   Large environmental project subcomponents, such as the Gwembe-Tonga component of this project,
       require the commitment of the Government and adequate financing to ensure successful completion.
       Adding them late in the project cycle requires even greater Government and Bank commitment to assure
       their success.

   l   When including unrelated, but socially desirable components to a project, care must be taken to ensure that
       the implementing agency has the requisite skills and experience in implementing them. One can not
       expect a power utility to effectively implement an agricultural extension or a road-building project, such as
       the ones envisaged in the Gwembe-Tonga sub-project.

   l   Power rehabilitation projects are much more complex than green field power projects. They require
       substantially more preappraisal preparation work. For these complex projects it is critical to have the
       required skills-mix, including the use the qualified and experience consulting expertise.

   l   The elements of power sector reform need to include, as a minimum, commercialization of the power
       sector institutions, with functionally independent generation, transmission and distributions entities, and
       with clearly established transfer pricing arrangement among these entities.

   l   Community involvement in the design of IDA projects should be encouraged, whenever such project
       impacts on people and the environment. To be effective, the Government and IDA would have to share and
       discuss the information and the studies on which these plans are to be based. One way of accomplishing
       this might be to encourage Governments to invite the Parliamentary representative of the affected people
       to join the discussions about developmental projects focused on their constituents.

   l   Governments should not use utilities to provide disguised subsidies to special classes of consumers, such as
       the copper mines in Zambia. If the government wants to provide subsidies, it should do so directly with tax
       holidays, etc.

   l   The Bank should help borrowers understand the full potential of modern BIS, so that they can better design
       an IT strategy. Visiting other utilities to see what can be accomplished would be helpful. It would have
       been useful for ZESCO's technical staff to have visited other utilities to see what a BIS system could
       accomplish.

   l   Senior managers of utilities need training in the commercial and financial sides of the business, not just
       in the engineering side of the business if they are to operate a utility efficiently. To address this problem,
       training programs should concentrate first and foremost on providing these engineers with tools needed for
       financial and economic analyze of investment and operating choices. These tools would allow engineers to
       approach profitability issues with the same degree of rigor that they have been trained to use in their
       approach to technical issues.

   l   Cross Conditions of Effectiveness with other lenders to the same project should be spelled out in detail and
       included in the risk analysis of the PAD.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Government of Zambia and ZESCO




                                                        - 16 -

1.0        Objective
 The overall objective of the Zambia: Power Rehabilitation Project (PRP) was to support the Government's objective
of enhancing the ability of Zambia's Electricity Supply Industry (ESI) to provide electricity at least cost and in an
efficient and sustainable manner to stimulate more and inclusive growth in the Zambian economy.

2.0        Project Costs
 It is estimated that the project cost at completion will be about US$300 million. The original cost estimate was US$
206 million. The increases on the overall costs were due to higher than the budgeted bids received, scope variations
due to time lag between design studies and           implementation (1995 to 2002/2008), currency exchange rate
movements, scope change from rehabilitation only to rehabilitation and up-rating, and price escalations over the
extended implementation period.

3.0        Achievement Of Overall Objectives And Outputs
 The Zambia Power Rehabilitation Project (PRP) was scheduled to be completed by 31 December 2002. IDA
extended its credit to 31 December 2005. The European Investment Bank (EIB) and Development Bank of Southern
Africa (DBSA) have extended to December 2008.
 Overall, the implementation of the PRP is considered satisfactory in terms of achieving the overall objectives, with
the components mostly now completed. The ZESCO is now set to provide electricity at least-cost and in an efficient
and sustainable manner. As part of the overall achievements of its objectives, the Project has rendered significant
support to:
    a)     the establishment and strengthening of institutional and regulatory framework, including further
    amendments to the Electricity Act and the Energy Regulation Act, and strengthening of the Energy Regulation
    Board. Formation of the Office for Promoting Private Power Investments (OPPPI)
    b)     the improvement in the efficiency of ZESCO through capacity-building measures and the
    Commercialization Roadmap plan based on corporate autonomy and management accountability which has
    resulted in enhanced Company's resource mobilization and profitability
    c)     the improvement in technical efficiency and the quality and reliability of supply in ZESCO's physical
    system, including significant reductions in losses in the transmission and distribution systems; and
    d)     the implementation Gwembe-Tonga rehabilitation program.

4.0        Achievement of Physical Objectives and Outputs
 The implementation of the PRP is considered satisfactory in terms of achieving these physical objectives, with most
components now completed.
    ·      The Lusaka West 330KV/132KV substation and a Line from Kafue West to the new Lusaka West have
    been built and commissioned, thereby improving the security of supply into the Lusaka areas.
    ·      The distribution rehabilitation works in Kitwe and Lusaka were successfully completed, with increased
    substation capacities which are now monitored online.
    ·      Modern SCAA and the radio link facilities have increase the reliability of the transmission lines.
    ·      The Gwembe-Tonga Project - a school, four new clinics, over thirty boreholes (tubewells) and three dams
    have been constructed. Additionally, several agriculture extension activities and associated agriculture training
    have been undertaken.
           The ZESCO Institutional Capacity Building has been satisfactory.
    ·      The PIU has been well-trained and been able to manage the implementation of the PRP successfully.
    Several training programs have been undertaken covering staff from all directorates/department; in excess of
    500 employees have been trained.
    ·      The formation of the Environmental and Social Unit (ESU) was completed and the unit is fully functional
    and undertaking a lead in environmental management (monitoring and evaluation) and studies on the different
    projects ZESCO is undertaking.
    ·      Policy component progressed well under the office for Promoting Private Power Investment including the
    strengthening of the Energy Regulation Board implemented.            However, as at December 31, 2005, works
    at the hydropower stations had not been completed:
    ·      Kafue Gorge Power Station: Three machines had been rehabilitated. Rehabilitation and uprading are in



                                                           - 17 -

    progress on two machines. All works were expected to be completed by December 2007.
    ·      Kariba North Power Station: Rehabilitation and uprating from 150MW to 180MW had been completed on
    two machines. Works on the third machine is targeted to commence in February 2007. Completion is targeted
    for March 2009.
    ·      Victoria Falls Power Station: The rehabilitation of the 220kV switchgear and the waterway were
    completed and commissioned. All the units have been commissioned and for the first time since the Station C
    was built, each machine is able to generate 10 MW (original 8MW max).

5.0        Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1        Internal Factors
    ·      Delay in establishing the Project Management Unit for GTDP led to a loss of about one year in
    implementation time.
    ·      Frequent change of contractors' site staff resulted in reduced rate of work progress and poor
    workmanship. For example, premature failure of a bearing on Unit 6 and winding installation failure of Unit 4
    stator at Kafue Gorge Power Station.
    ·      The Kafue Gorge and Kariba north Rehabilitation Project have had several changes to the scope, which
    entailed renegotiation and repackaging. At Kafue Gorge, multiple contracts, awarded to different contractors
    working on the same machines, has resulted in delays due to difficulties with coordination of implementation
    schedules under the constraint that only two machines could be shut down at any one time.
    ·      When rehabilitation started and the machines (Generators and Turbines) were dismantled, a significant
    difference in the state of machines was found between what was expected (and therefore stated in the tender
    documents) and what was needed to complete the job. These changes in scope required change orders and
    extensions of the implementation schedule, both of which increased project costs.
    ·      High staff turnover in the Project Implementation Unit, especially ZESCO's project managers.

5.2        External Factors
    ·      The project has had six IDA Task team leaders and three DBSA Task team leaders. Generally, there
    seemed to be no hand-overs from one Task Team Leader to the next. The changes of IDA's task team leaders
    affected procurement processes, such as delays in issuance of "No Objection".
    ·      Lack of flexibility in procurement guidelines.
    ·      Delays in credits/loans disbursement effectiveness.
    ·      Changes in world markets and prices resulted in an upward price adjustment on materials and labor and
    this had a negative effect on the budget.
    ·      The financiers' reluctance to finance certain scope and/or scope changes e.g. World Bank's; reprofiling of
    turbines and recoring and rewinding works (up-rating) at Kafue Gorge.
    ·      The government did not, and has not exempted, ZESCO from paying duties and taxes on projects funded
    from own sources under the PRP and therefore required ZESCO to seek additional funding.
    ·      Some GTDP project components lacked detailed design studies, which led to planning being done during
    the implementation phase. While it was acknowledged that the INESOR report provided a general scoping
    framework, the nature of most of the works required scope definition, planning, designing, sensitization and
    then finally implementation. The implementation plan was more suited for a project that has already been
    planned and designed. For instance, although the DBSA loan became effective in November 2001, the estimated
    cost of implementing the Bottom road was only known in 2003 when the project was expected to close.
    ·      The allocation of funds to some project components was not based on any quantified budget (no detailed
    scope definition) leading to significant underestimates in most cases, e.g. Gwembe-Tonga and Kafue Gorge
    where diagnostic studies were not done.
    ·      Anticipated community contribution of 25% of project cost on the Gwembe-Tonga Development Project in
    terms of labor and provision of locally available materials could not be achieved.

6.0        Performances
6.1        Bank's Performance
    The Bank generally worked closely with the Borrower and provided timely guidance and advice. It dealt with
threats proactively. On the whole, the Bank made itself available to both the Borrower and ZESCO. The Bank's



                                                          - 18 -

overall performance can be rated as satisfactory.

6.2        Borrower's Performance (GRZ)
 The project received a lot of support and goodwill from the Borrower hence the project reaching completion.
Overall, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory except for the following:
    ·      Although the Borrower was very conscious of the domestic macro-economic environment in which the
    project operated, the Credit (CR.3042) obtained contained conditionalities that could not easily be fulfilled
    within the agreed period thereby delaying credit effectiveness. This obviously meant that no contracts could be
    entered into before the effective date.
    ·      Government did not meet its obligation of financing the full electrification component of Gwembe-Tonga
    Project.
    ·      The Project Account held at the MEWD did not operate effectively to enhance project operations. A lot of
    payments were delayed because of non-responsiveness of staff managing this account.
    ·      The Borrower dealt with circumstances that threatened the project's progress in a timely manner,
    particularly in the ever-changing political and economic environment.
    ·      The construction of the Bottom Road was not done and electrification of the lakeshore was not fully
    implemented because of insufficient funds.

6.3        Implementing Agent's (ZESCO) Performance
 ZESCO counterpart financing was agreed from the start of the Project. However some of ZESCO's payments were
delayed due to financial constraints. In one instance the delays in making initial payments contributed to a late start
of project components and even in some cases led to cancellation of contracts e.g. transmission contract for the lines
maintenance and Ndola Distribution Rehabilitation, and scaling back of some scope at Victoria Falls Power Station
Rehabilitation, among others.
    ·      Despite implementation commencing towards the end of the initially agreed project period of 1998 to
    2002, the Implementing Agent succeeded in managing the contracts within the extended period of three years
    and successfully completed all the IDA funded components.
    ·      ZESCO managed the financing gap that arose from exchange loses using its own resources without
    seeking revision of the IDA financing agreement.
    ·      The Gwembe-Tonga Project was able to accomplish what it did due to the enormous support rendered by
    ZESCO; chief among the rest is secondment of staff to the project at ZESCO's cost and funding all
    administrative costs of managing the project. Including bridging finance for 10% local cost contributions on
    behalf of GRZ.
    ·      Capacity building programs was focused and yielded significant results in the PIU and ZESCO.
    ·      The PIU dealt with progress threats efficiently, e.g. on the failed procurement of a water expert, the PIU
    proposed smaller turnkey works to the IDA, who responded positively. This resulted in the successful
    implementation of Lusitu Water Works and the three dams.

7.0        Lessons learned
    ·      The training of staff on Procurement and Financing was done during the implementation of the project.
    This disadvantaged the client's handling of the project in its early phases. When projects of this nature and size
    are implemented, the client needs to have a well trained team whose focus is on the project from inception to
    completion stage.
    ·      Premature failure of Unit 6 just after rehabilitation resulted in loss of production. The clause relating
    penalties for loss of production had been removed from the contract at the insistence of IDA. As a result,
    ZESCO suffered heavy financial losses when it had to import power to replace the output of this unit. If
    Contractors are held responsible and accountable for generation losses during implementation of contracts, such
    occurrences can be avoided or minimized in future.
    ·      Project financiers should harmonize their conditions of effectiveness and disbursement to avoid cases of
    unreasonable cross-referencing of conditionalities among themselves.
    ·      There should be proper coordination between the Borrower and Implementing Agent in agreeing to the
    credit effectiveness conditions to avoid implementation delays. The IDA credit effectiveness should not have
    been held hostage to the Government's disposal of the assets of ZCCM, since this action was not directly related



                                                           - 19 -

    to power sector issues, and did not appear as a conditionality in the IDA Development Credit Agreement).
    ·     To avoid delays and cost overruns, multiple contracts on equipment related to the same power circuit
    should not be allowed.
    ·     Sufficient time should be provided for scoping, planning, designing and implementation methodologies of
    all project components. This was a particularly difficult problem for the Gwembe-Tonga Development Project
    where project cost estimates at inception were not based on any quantifiable basis.
    ·     Community participation (including contributions in kind) is generally perceived positively as a necessary
    precondition for project success and sustainability. The Gwembe-Tonga project by its very social nature was
    conceptualized on this premise. However, during the implementation phase, it became obvious that eliciting
    this participation was extremely difficult, primarily because project funding was, and still is, perceived as
    compensation for the historical wrongs done to them by the World Bank's participation in the building of the
    Kariba dam. This perception affected local people's willingness to participate in financing the project by
    providing resources in kind.
    ·     There seems to be conflict between ownership of project preparation reports done by consultants on behalf
    of the Borrower. The Bank seemed to have more respect for consultant's views than the Borrower's yet the
    consultant is supposed to be a resource of the Borrower. Further it sometimes turned out that the consultant's
    advice was not right and that the Borrower's position was economical and right. However, the consultant was
    never made liable for the `lost time' or increased costs arising from time delays and wrong advice.
    ·     Holding of the Project Special Account should be left with the Implementing Agent, not a Government
    Agency that is not directly involved in the day today management of the project. A case in point is the
    Gwembe-Tonga project, where funding was delayed by lack of action on the part of Government agencies.
    ·     Implementing agency participation in the planning and implementation of a project offers a unique
    challenge and the experiences gained are immeasurable.

8.0       Sustainability of PRP Infrastructure
    ·     As part of implementation program, all necessary efforts were made to ensure that ZESCO personnel who
    were to operate and maintain equipment were attached as counterparts to contractors and consultants, so that
    they would be involved in all aspects of implementing the project and would be given on site training in
    operation and maintenance. There is a realization in ZESCO's management that continuous and periodic
    maintenance be enforced to avoid rehabilitation works on a large scale as proved necessary with this
    project.

 (b) Cofinanciers:
 Development Bank of South Africa (DBSA)
          Our comments focus on issues to be considered of lessons learned from our joint exposure to ZESCO.
          As a regional DFI, we (DBSA) supported the overall sectoral reform introduced by way of the
 commercialization program (the road map) agreed between IDA and GOZ. Because we lend directly to ZESCO,
 our leverage to reform ZESCO was to impose loan conditions in support of the overall commercialization road
 map. We are as disappointed as you are that the Government, the Regulatory Authority, and ZESCO all seem to
 lack a sense of urgency to bring tariffs to sustainable levels, and that, as a result, ZESCO has been unable to
 become a financially viable utility.

          While some progress was made on the technical level to reform ZESCO's assets, ZESCO's long term
 financial viability remains a major concern to us, not only in terms of the impact this has on ZESCO's ability to
 service our debt, but also on the long-term impact it has on ZESCO's ability to play a leading role in the region as
 a "commercialized" utility. ZESCO has approached DBSA for new loans, but we will not consider increasing our
 exposure unless they are able to improve their financial position as per their business plan targets. Despite
 agreement between ZESCO and the Regulator to review tariffs annually, no satisfactory results are observed. The
 results that will be achieved through the conclusions and recommendations of the referred tariff study in your
 report, are still open to question.

          ZESCO should not have been allowed to use DBSA funding for the Gwembe-Tonga social programs, as
 this created a mismatch between ZESCO's expected return on the assets produced with DBSA funds and the




                                                          - 20 -

 financial cost of these funds to ZESCO. ZESCO received no return on these assets, but has to repay the DBSA
 loan on close to commercial terms.

           The DBSA does not agree with your conclusions on lessons learned with respect to BIS, or as we know it
 the Enterprise Resource Plan (ERP). We co-financed the system and were closely involved in the scoping,
 invitation of tenders and evaluation process. Other users of BIS systems were consulted before the project scoping
 was finalized and a two envelope system was followed in the evaluation process and eventual awarding of the
 tender.

 Comments of EIB on the Kariba North Project Component
           The severe delays and cost overruns for this project component are not at all satisfactory. Furthermore,
 the fact that EIB required ZESCO to rebid the contracts related to Units 3 and 4 (transformers, cables) was not the
 cause for the delay. Delays were driven primarily by the lack of spare capacity that made the planning very difficult
 to take any unit off-line for the several months needed for rehabilitation and repowering work, in a way that would
 minimize the disruption in the overall demand-supply balance.

 Comments from Government of Norway
           Sector Planning: The project attempted to integrate several very political and challenging components in
 one intervention. It is uncertain whether this was the right approach in a country like Zambia at the time this
 intervention was planned, and whether as a consequence, several of the key components in the project did not
 suffer from a sub-optimal planning and implementation. Another approach would have been to unbundle the
 project and carry it forward in distinct phases, where certain key benchmarks could have been set as conditions for
 moving forward.

           Detailed forward looking demand and generation assessments, (including opportunities for power export
 through existing connections), should be a critical input into the planning of power rehabilitation projects. As
 mentioned in the assessment-evaluation, it would have been much more cost-effective to combine the rehabilitation
 with needed upgrading or expansion of power generation capacity that could already have been anticipated in the
 mid-1990s.

           Financial engineering of projects with many financial institutions: It would be interesting if the WB
 could look further into the experiences with having such a mix of financiers (a total of 9 altogether, with variations
 in conditions and high transaction costs involved) and what are the total costs of financing (including
 considerations for separate conditions, time lag and transaction costs) and demands in terms of management in
 ZESCO as compared to the possibilities that exist in the private market for such jobs where both financing and
 technical delivery could be sourced.

           Reform of ZESCO: This is a large and complicated reform process that required political negotiations and
 follow-up. It was covered also in the overall follow-up by the WB, Sida and other cooperating partners as far as
 possible. There is little doubt that a large reform of ZESCO was and still is needed, possibly more in the direction
 of commercialization than privatization. The issue of unbundling also needs possibly to be phased through a
 realistic time approach as has happened in many countries with regards to power reform.

           ZESCO's financial sustainability: ZESCO's major outstanding financial problem is linked to the
 concessions given to the mining sector, which consume 50-60% of Zambia's total electricity production. This
 sector is paying far below ZESCO's average cost for generating and transmitting electricity, and makes its
 payments in USD (something that has impacted in a very negative manner with the appreciation of the Kwacha in
 the last year or so). Unless this pricing regime is changed, it is difficult to see how the other consumers can cover
 the difference needed to make ZESCO financially viable. We fully support the statement that ZESCO should not
 provide disguised subsidies.

Comments from Sida (Sweden)
           Sida would like to commend all the stakeholders that have participated in the power Rehabilitation Project
and have made it possible for the process to reach the stage thus far.


                                                          - 21 -

          Sweden's contribution to the financing of the project supported technical assistance for (i) the
establishment of the Environmental and Social Affairs Unit of ZESCO; (ii) institutional capacity building for
ZESCO, and the Energy Regulation Board; and (iii) the engineering supervision of the rehabilitation of the Kafue
Gorge hydropower station. Some of these activities are on-going, and expected to be completed satisfactorily.

          The Implementation Completion Report is comprehensive and gives a fair assessment of the Project
objective, design and outcome so far. The report would have been further enhanced by the addition of appendices
detailing progress on the specific work plans referred to in the report*.

* These detailed plans are in the project files.

 (c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


 10. Additional Information

      None.




                                                         - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Plant availability (%)                     85                                          67% - Two generators are down for ongoing
Kafue Gorge Power Station                                                                 rehabilitation work
2. Transmission system (330KV) reliability    Midterm actual = 108                        2005 = 5
(unplanned interruption hours per 100 km per
month)
3. Total losses (%)- Target 14%                Midterm 21.7%                              2005 = 21%
4. Accounts receivable days (all customers    285                                         250
except CEC and exports)
5. ZESCO's revenue generation to cover        shortfall in covering operating expenses    shortfall in covering operating expenses
operating expenses (including depreciation    including depreciation of revalued fixed    including depreciation of revalued fixed
on revalued fixed assets), debt service &     assets and debt service                     assets and debt service
working capital requirements & a proportion
of investments ranging from 5% in FY98 &
99, 10% in FY00 & 01, & 15% from FY02
onwards
Promotion of private participation in power   No progress                                 No progress to date
sector: Launch policy framework for
promoting private investment in hydropower
and transmission. in place in 1999
The performance of ZESCO's environmental Highly Satisfactory                              Highly Satisfactory
and social affairs unit (ESU) in carrying out
environmental assessments is improved


Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
ZESCO's accounts are separated for            No Action Taken                             No Action Taken
generation/transmission/distribution/supply
as part of preparation for sector unbundling
ZESCO's institutional development incl.       Price increases inadequate to meet goals    Prices negotiated with now large scale users
commercial operation, financial management                                                are inadequate to cover costs of production
                                                                                          Accounts receivable again above nine
                                                                                          months, primarily from Government and
                                                                                          quasi-governmental institutions. Substantial
                                                                                          improvements in billing system with
                                                                                          introduction of Business management
                                                                                          System
ZESCO's project management                    Highly Satisfactory                         Highly Satisfactory
The distribution systems in Lusaka            Completed                                   Completed
rehabilitated
Transmission system rehabilitated             Completed                                   Completed
Hydropower plants rehabilitated (Kafue        Victoria Falls completed. Other in progress Victoria Falls completed. Other in progress
Gorge)                                        with clear and achievable timetable.        with clear and achievable timetable
Implementation of the Gwembe-Tonga social
component

720 km Bottom Road                            Bottom road -Study Completed                Limited rehabilitation to make passable a few
                                                                                          of the worst section under implementation.
                                                                                          No funds available to implement further

                                                                                          Second village area awaiting required funding
Water reticulation systems rehabilitated for  Water system rehabilitated in one extended
two villages                                  village (14,000 people)                     Done

Health clinics and schools                    Three Health clinics and one school built   600 several communities electrified. Majority
                                                                                          work awaits construction of roads
Rural Electrification (RE)                     RE: 600 km of lines strung,
                                                                                          3 Dams and one Weirs built and are being




                                                                  - 23 -

                                                                   filled. remaining 7 dams/weirs awaiting
                                                                   required additional funding
Ten Small Dams and Weirs        3 dams and one weir built
                                                                   None

                                                                   Program abandoned
Irrigation systems              None
                                                                   Successfully implemented
Agricultural Advisory system    Some advisory systems initiated

HIV/AIDS awareness program      Successfully implemented


1End of project




                                                 - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


                                                                     Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                                     Estimate         Estimate         Appraisal
                             Component                              US$ million      US$ million
Hydropower Station Rehabilitation
a. Kafue Gorge                                                          21.04             42.50             102
b. Victoria Falls                                                       19.85             52.45             147
c. Kariba'North                                                         26.79             32.00              20
d. Kariba Dam Safety                                                     3.00

Distribution System Rehabilitation
a. Lusaka                                                               28.19             28.40
b. Copperbelt (Kitwe)                                                   12.32             10.65            (-13)
c. Copperbelt (Ndola)                                                    9.07                                 *
d. Loss Reduction                                                        3.10              0.36              **

Transmission System Rehabilitation                                      33.98             28.86            (-15)
Gwenbe-Tonga Environmental Mitigation                                    6.94           172.00              ***
Environmental and Social Affairs Unit Strengthening                      0.50              0.54               8
ZESCO Capacity Building and Management                                   4.88              4.06            (-16)
Implementation of Hydropower and Transmission Policies                   2.04              0.50              **

Total Baseline Cost                                                    171.70           362.32
  Physical Contingencies                                                17.16
  Price Contingencies                                                   12.68
  PPF Refinancing                                                        2.05              1.99
                                 Total Project Costs                   203.59           364.31
                                   Interest during construction         19.84
                           Total Financing Required                    223.43           364.31              163
* Not implemented
** Reduced scope
***No estimate at appraisal



     Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement
     (in US$ million equivalent)

     Procurement                   Internationa    National    Internation    Direct      Other   N. B. F.   Total
     Arrangements                       l        Competitive       al       Contracting
                                   Competitive      Bidding     Shopping
                                     Bidding
     PPF Refinancing                                                                       2.05              2.05
                                                                                          (2.05)            (2.05)
     Civil Works                       7.32            1.2                                         7.46     15.98
                                      (7.20)          (1.0)                                                 (8.20)
     Goods and Equipment              58.08           3.50        1.024                           103.00    165.60
                                     (55.43)         (3.02)      (1.024)                                    (59.47)
     Services
        -Consultancy Services                                                              6.097   9.73     15.82
                                                                                          (4.697)          (4.697)



                                                         - 25 -

        -Training*                                                                       0.23                     0.925         1.16
                                                                                        (0.23)                                 (0.23)
        - Other Services**                                                               2.16                      0.82         2.98
                                                                                        (0.43)                                 (0.43)
    Total                                  65.40                4.70         1.02        2.39           8.15     121.93        203.59
                                          (62.63)              (4.02)       (1.02)      (0.66)         (6.75)                 (75.08)



    *Procurement to be made based on World Bank sole source guidelines
    **Includes cost of emergency preparedness plan, Gwembe-Tonga Environmental Rehabilitation and Development and cost of
    Advisory Services

    Note:
    N.B.F. = Non-Bank Financed
    Figures in parentheses are respective amounts to be financed by IDA



Actual/Expected Project Cost and Financing by Procurement Method

1) Victoria Falls Power Station Rehabilitation Contracts



S/N            Contract                                         Contractor/         Procurement Method Original Contract

                  Description                                    Financier
   1    Design and Construction Supervision    Electricite de France, EDF

                                                                              ZESCO         ICB                           USD 788,500



   2    Rehabilitation Contract                ALSTOM

                                                                                 EIB        ICB                        EUR 16,785,795

                                                                                                                         USD 2,553,800



                                                                               DBSA                                      EUR 5,255,851

                                                                                                                         USD 2,143,480



                                                                              ZESCO                                    EUR 11,186,498

                                                                                                                          USD 803,992




                                                                             TOTALS                                   EUR 33, 228,145

                                                                                                                         USD 5,501,272



   3    Environmental Mitigation Plan          Livingstone Council

                                                                              ZESCO   Single Sourcing                  ZMK 94,700,000




2) Kariba North Bank Power Station Rehabilitation Contracts




                                                                   - 26 -

   1   Design and Construction Supervision    PB Power

                                                                             DBSA    ICB          USD 1,430,000



   2   Rehabilitation Contract                ALSTOM

                                                                              EIB    ICB          EUR 13,274,841

                                                                                                  USD 1,275,730



                                                                             DBSA                 EUR 7, 412,324

                                                                                                  USD 2,700,851



                                                                            ZESCO                  EUR 938,613

                                                                                                   USD 160,590




                                                                           TOTALS                EUR 21,625,778

                                                                                                  USD 4,137,171



   3   Preparation of Evaluation Report       GIBB Ltd

                                                                              IDA    ICB             USD 21,500



   4   Preparation of Cost Estimates for the  GIBB Ltd
       Project
                                                                              IDA    ICB             USD 27,657



   5   Construction of PCB Storage Site       Sinetech

                                                                             CIDA    NCB         ZMK 268,816,500



                                                                            ZESCO



   6   Construction of Access Road to Camp    Argente Ltd
       Site
                                                                             DBSA    NCB         ZMK 351,417,196

                                                                            ZESCO



   7   Study on Up-Rating of Power Station    Norconsult International AS

                                                                             DBSA   Selective        USD 41,360




3) Kafue Gorge Hydropower Station Rehabilitation Contracts




                                                                 - 27 -

1 CD 91: Construction Supervision       SwedPower AB

                                                                     SIDA  NCB (Sweden)                 SEK 11,554,350



                                                                    ZESCO                                       USD 0

                                                                   TOTAL

                                                            REHABILITAION                               USD 1, 444,294
                                                            CONSULTANCY
2 CD 92-93: Civil &                     CHICO

  Mechanical Works                                                    IDA     ICB                        USD 3,513,777

                                                                                                      ZMK 714,380,011



                                                                    ZESCO                               ZMK 79,375557

                                                                                         Ttl Equiv $ 3,842,767
3 CD 94-95: Electromechanical Works     ALSTOM

                                                                      IDA     ICB

                                                                                                       NOK 14,265,950

                                                                                                        SEK 40,674,179

                                                                                         Ttl Equiv $ 5,745,765
4 CD 96: Supplementary Restoration Works
          a)     CD 96 (I) ­ Cooling    China Henan (CHICO)                                                USD 415,760

     Water Systems                                                  AFDB      ICB

                                                                                                            USD 10,247

                                                                    ZESCO                              ZMK 96,812,249




          b)     CD 96 (III) ­ Fire     Fire Control Systems

    Protection Systems                                              AFDB      ICB                          USD 429,954



                                                                    ZESCO                                       USD 0



          c)     CD 96 (II) - Relay     ALSTOM (Pty) Ltd

     Protection                                                     AFDB      ICB                        EUR 1,125,904



                                                                    ZESCO                                  EUR 183,282




                                                                   TOTAL                                EUR 1,309,186

                                                             RESTORATION                                   USD 855,961




                                                        - 28 -

                                                                    WORKS                                 ZMK 96,812,249



  d) CD 96: Consultancy Services         Norconsult AS

                                                                       AfDB       ICB                         USD 244,726



                                                                     ZESCO

                                                                     TOTAL

                                                           RESTORATION                                        USD 244,726

                                                           CONSULTANCY
5 CD 97: Rehabilitation                  ALSTOM

  of 17.5 & 330                                                          IDA      ICB                       GBP 3,907,059

  kV Switchgear                                                                                             CHF 6,463,267

                                                                                                            EUR 5,862,185

                                                                     ZESCO                                         USD 0

                                                                                             Ttl Equi $16,478,009
6 CD 98: Supply of new Uprated           BHEL                                                               USD 5,958,058

  Transformers                                                        DBSA        ICB

                                                        LESS: VARIATION

                                                    ON CD 94-95 (re-profiling)

                                                                                                           USD 32,024,599

                                                 TOTAL REHABILITATION

                                                                    WORKS
7 CD 99: Re-Coring and Up-Rating of the  ALSTOM
  Generators
                                                                      DBSA       Selective                     CHF 75,000

                                                                                                            EUR 6,153,529

                                                                                                              GBP 539,524

                                                                                                               USD 65,000

                                                                                                       Equi USD 7,123,024

                                                                     ZESCO                                     CHF 75,000

                                                                                                            EUR 6,153,529

                                                                                                              GBP 539,524

                                                                                                               USD 65,000

                                                                                                       Equi USD 7,123,024

                                                         ADD: VARIATION                                 #REF!

                                                    ON CD 94-95 (re-profiling)                          #REF!



                                                        TOTAL UPRATING                                  #REF!



                                                      - 29 -

                                                                         WORKS



3) Kafue Gorge Hydropower Station Rehabilitation Contracts



   1   CD 91: Construction Supervision         SwedPower AB

                                                                            SIDA  NCB (Sweden)                 SEK 11,554,350



                                                                           ZESCO                                       USD 0

                                                                          TOTAL

                                                                   REHABILITAION                               USD 1, 444,294
                                                                   CONSULTANCY
   2   CD 92-93: Civil &                       CHICO

       Mechanical Works                                                      IDA     ICB                        USD 3,513,777

                                                                                                             ZMK 714,380,011



                                                                           ZESCO                               ZMK 79,375557

                                                                                                Ttl Equiv $ 3,842,767
   3   CD 94-95: Electromechanical Works       ALSTOM

                                                                             IDA     ICB

                                                                                                              NOK 14,265,950

                                                                                                               SEK 40,674,179

                                                                                                Ttl Equiv $ 5,745,765
   4   CD 96: Supplementary Restoration Works
               d)     CD 96 (I) ­ Cooling      China Henan (CHICO)                                                USD 415,760

          Water Systems                                                    AFDB      ICB

                                                                                                                   USD 10,247

                                                                           ZESCO                              ZMK 96,812,249




               e)     CD 96 (III) ­ Fire       Fire Control Systems

          Protection Systems                                               AFDB      ICB                          USD 429,954



                                                                           ZESCO                                       USD 0



               f)     CD 96 (II) - Relay       ALSTOM (Pty) Ltd

          Protection                                                       AFDB      ICB                        EUR 1,125,904



                                                                           ZESCO                                  EUR 183,282




                                                               - 30 -

                                                                     TOTAL                                  EUR 1,309,186

                                                           RESTORATION                                        USD 855,961

                                                                    WORKS                                 ZMK 96,812,249



  d) CD 96: Consultancy Services         Norconsult AS

                                                                       AfDB       ICB                         USD 244,726



                                                                     ZESCO

                                                                     TOTAL

                                                           RESTORATION                                        USD 244,726

                                                           CONSULTANCY
5 CD 97: Rehabilitation                  ALSTOM

  of 17.5 & 330                                                          IDA      ICB                       GBP 3,907,059

  kV Switchgear                                                                                             CHF 6,463,267

                                                                                                            EUR 5,862,185

                                                                     ZESCO                                         USD 0

                                                                                             Ttl Equi $16,478,009
6 CD 98: Supply of new Uprated           BHEL                                                               USD 5,958,058

  Transformers                                                        DBSA        ICB

                                                        LESS: VARIATION

                                                    ON CD 94-95 (re-profiling)

                                                                                                           USD 32,024,599

                                                 TOTAL REHABILITATION

                                                                    WORKS
7 CD 99: Re-Coring and Up-Rating of the  ALSTOM
  Generators
                                                                      DBSA       Selective                     CHF 75,000

                                                                                                            EUR 6,153,529

                                                                                                              GBP 539,524

                                                                                                               USD 65,000

                                                                                                       Equi USD 7,123,024

                                                                     ZESCO                                     CHF 75,000

                                                                                                            EUR 6,153,529

                                                                                                              GBP 539,524

                                                                                                               USD 65,000

                                                                                                       Equi USD 7,123,024

                                                         ADD: VARIATION                                 #REF!



                                                      - 31 -

                                                           ON CD 94-95 (re-profiling)                  #REF!



                                                                  TOTAL UPRATING                       #REF!

                                                                            WORKS
   8   Independent Review of TD 94-95           Hydro Quebec

       Tender Docs                                                    IDA               Selective            USD 11,400



   9   Diagnostic Testing of Generators         ERA Technology

                                                                             ZESCO      Selective        GBP 78,520.00
  10   Testing of the earth integrity of the    UNZA (Elect) Dept                                             USD 7,350

       330 kV Switchyard                                                                Selective




4) Transmission System Rehabilitation Contracts



   1   Consultancy Services                     Norconsult International AS

                                                                            NORAD      NCB (Norway)     NOK 16,132,867



   2                                            ABB (Pty) Ltd

       5.10: 330 kV Trxn Line, Kafue                                            IDA       ICB            USD 2,175,739

       West - Lsk West                                                                                  ZMK 803,645,796



                                                                             ZESCO                      ZMK 89,293,977



   3   5.11: Transmission Lines Rehab           ABB (Pty) Ltd                                            USD 2,796,374

       & Mtce                                                                ZESCO        ICB          ZMK 1,246,452,303



   4   5.20: Substations Rehabilitation         BHEL

                                                                                IDA                      USD 15,083,878



                                                                             ZESCO                           USD 31,376



   5   5: 21, Lot 1 - Kitwe & Luano             Jacobsen Elektro

       Substations                                                           ZESCO     NCB (Norway)     NOK 35,397,470



   6   5.21, Lot 2 & 3 - SCADA and              ABB Industri AS

       NCC Back-Up                                                          NORAD      NCB (Norway)    NOK 7,452,790.00




                                                                - 32 -

                                                                            ZESCO                          NOK 0.00



   7   5.21, Lot 4 - Telecommunications          Teamcom AS

                                                                            ZESCO  NCB (Norway)     NOK 27,037,700.00



   8   Construction of PCB Site in Luano         Choice Build

                                                                            ZESCO    NCB             ZMK 427,242,640



   9   Diversion of the Shorthorn 33 kV          Poweng

       Line                                                                 ZESCO    NCB              USD 183,080.00




5) Lusaka Distribution System Rehabilitation Contracts



   1   Consultancy Services                      Elektrowatt Ekono

                                                                            ZESCO  NCB (Finland)      USD 1,202,950



                                                                          FINNIDA                       USD 430,000



   2   Distribution System Rehabilitation        Siemens Ltd (RSA)

                                                                              IDA     ICB             USD 13,354,051



                                                                            ZESCO                       USD 123,253



   3   Supply & Installation of Lusaka &         ABB Transmit Oy

       Kitwe SCADA                                                           NDF      LCB             EUR 4,800,000



   4   Roma 33 KV Substation                     ABB Transmit Oy

                                                                             NDF      LCB             USD 1,301,430




6) Copperbelt Distribution System Rehabilitation Contracts



   1   Consultancy Services                      Lahmeyer International

                                                                              IDA     ICB             USD 952,235.00



   2   Kitwe Distribution System                 ABB Oy

       Rehabilitation                                                       DBSA      ICB             USD 8,969,296




                                                                - 33 -

                                                                                                    EUR 1,520,128

                                                                                                   ZMK 52,793,293



   3    Ndola Distribution System                               Cancelled

        Rehabilitation




7) Loss Reduction in the Lusaka Area (Customer Services Management)



   1    Operator for Lusaka West                 ELYO/LYSA

        Region                                                               AFD     LCB          FRF 16,184,687.00




8) Gwembe Tonga Development Project Contracts



1       Water Expert                             Services Cancelled                  ICB          N/A



2       Agriculture Expert                       Dr. A Mapiki

                                                                             IDA     ICB              USD 269,900



3       Office Equipment, Furniture and Vehicles Various

                                                                             IDA  NCB/Shopping        USD 226,583

                                                                             GRZ                       USD 25,176



4       Re-trofitting of HIV/AIDS                Various

                                                                             IDA                         USD 7,695

                                                                                    NCB            ZMK 28,305,000



                                                                             GRZ                          USD 855

                                                                                                    ZMK 3,145,000
5       Roads Consultant                         BKS Global/Bicon

                                                                            DBSA     ICB            ZAR 2,049,405

                                                                                                      USD 186,197



6       Dams and Weirs Consultant                Knight Piesold

                                                                            DBSA     ICB            ZAR 2,028,158



7       Boreholes Construction                   Dept. Of Water Affairs




                                                                 - 34 -

                                                                ZESCO        Single Sourcing      ZMK 713,344,200



8   Community Participation,              MBB (Z) Ltd

    Mobilisation and Capacity Building                            IDA         ICB                     USD 469,785

    Consultant
9   Agriculture Development               Various

    Services                                                      IDA    Shopping/LCB                 USD 627,106

                                                                                                  ZMK 478,593,293



                                                                 GRZ                                    USD 69,678

                                                                                                   ZMK 53,177,033



10  Roads Contractor                      None                                N/A                              N/A



11  Dams and Weirs Contractor             Mundial & GM Inter                  NCB                ZMK 6,845,654,530

                                                                  IDA
12  Rural Electrification                 ZESCO Ltd

                                                                 GRZ Single Sourcing (Done           USD 4,310,000
                                                                           by Zesco)
13  Const. & Rehab. of Clinics &          Various

    School                                                        IDA Single Sourcing (Built         USD 32,400.00
                                                                           by Zesco)


                                                                                                 ZMK 1,380,514,995


                                                                              GRZ
                                                                                                      USD 3,600.00

                                                                                                  ZMK 153,390,555



14  Lusitu Water Works Treatment

    Plant Reconstruction                                          IDA         ICB                ZMK 5,046,815,744



                                                                 GRZ



15  Installation of Solar                                         IDA         ICB                   USD 138,452.70

    Equipment
16  Construction of drainage                                     DBSA         NCB               ZMK 283,559,220,000

    Structures, Munyumbwe -

    Chipepo road




                                                       - 35 -

9) ZESCO Institutional Capacity Buildings Contracts



   1  Engineering Services for                 Anderson + Anderson Intl

      ZESCO Trg School                                                        IDA           ICB            USD 182,840.00



                                                                          ZESCO
   2  Rehabilitation of the Training           Postponed                                                             N/A

      Centre                                                              ZESCO



   3  Outsourcing of Non-Core                  PricewaterhouseCoopers

      Activities (Terminated)                                             ZESCO             ICB             USD 762,535



   4  Strengthening of the Env. & Social       SwedPower AB

      Affairs Unit                                                            Sida   Selective (Sweden)    SEK 4,389,000



   5  Institutional Capacity Building          SwedPower AB

                                                                              Sida   Selective (Sweden)    SEK 8,000,000



                                                                          ZESCO                            SEK 2,845,549
   6  Training                                 Various

                                                                              IDA        Selective          USD 499,149
   7  Training Specialist                      Mr. C Dutton

                                                                          ZESCO             ICB            USD 470,636.44
   8  Audit Services                           Grant Thornton

                                                                 ZESCO (Contract 1)         NCB            USD 96,000.00

                                                                 ZESCO (Contract 2)                        USD 32,200.00



   9  Project Management Expert                Mr. O Rudic

                                                                              IDA           ICB            USD 438,285.00
  10  Financial Model Training                 Mr. G Dhalla

                                                                              IDA     Single Sourcing      USD 16,000.00




                                                              - 36 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The methodological approach, based on the use of the WASP computer model, to establish the least-cost
justification of rehabilitation of hydropower stations in the context of the Zambia power system was un-necessarily
wasteful.   In addition the WASP computer model has serious limitations for plnning of systems that are
predominatly hydro-based. The alternatives would have been the construction of new hydro and thermal power
stations instead of the rehabiliation of the existing plants. Imports from other countries of significant amounts of
power would have required the construction of long distance transmission interconnections at high cost, and
moreover, imports could be relied upon over the long-term. A simple screening curve analysis which would
compare the feasible alternatives could have been used to establish the cost effectiveness of rehabilitaion of the
hydropower plants. The PAD did not provide estimates of the expected outputs of the power station after
rehabilitation, but it also appeared that the benefits could have grossly under-estimated. It was obvious from the
operating state of the hydropower stations that, due to the years of neglect of maintenance, the generating units
were in serious state of disrepair, that they fail and lead to totatl system collapse a few years later. Rehabilitation
would restore the units to their original design capacities, and to continue sustained operations for the next 25-30
years.

For the re-assessment of the economic justification, the screening curne method of analysis was used in comapring
the cost of rewhabilition at about $150/kW to the cost of new greenfield hydropower plant of $800-1000/kW. The
benefits were taken as net output of the power stations after rehabilitation, and valued at the system marginal cost
of generation at UScents 3.8/kWh. For the Victoria Falls power station, the capital cost reflect the cost at
completion. For the other two plants, the costs reflect actual to date and the estimates to completion of the
remaining works. The Victoria Falls power station was com pleted in December 2005. Because of the significant
diversion of water for tourism purposes during the dry season, annual output is based on about 40% capacity
utilization of the power station.   For the Kafue Gorge and Kariba North Bank Power plants, output is taken
conservatively at about 60% of the potential output of each of them. Both plants are expected to be completed in
early 2009. The cost and benefits of the re-powering have not been taken into account. Repowering would add
significantly to the benefits, and improve the economic returns.

The above methodological approach differs from the one adopted in the PAD, and, therefore the results of the
economic rates of return are not comparable. The results are summarized below:

For the PAD                                                       Revised Estimate
                             NPV               ERR                         NPV               ERR
                             (US$ 000)         (%)                         (US$000)          (%)

Generation
Victoria Falls               15,617            31.5                        23,106            25
Kafue Gorge                  16,484            36.9                        245,465           57
Kariba North Bank            32,008            50.1                        154,040           50

For the transmission and distribution components, the benefits approximate the estimates at appraisal. However,
they were completed in due time, and under appraisal estimated cost in the range of 15-20%. The benefits were
taken as improved reliability through reduced outages, and incremental sales from loss reduction. The results are
summarized below.

For the PAD                                                                Revised Estimate
                             NPV               ERR                                   NPV               ERR
                             (US$000)          (%)                                   (US$000)          (%)

Lusaka                       44,960            30                                    46,000            35
Ndola                        18196             36.5                                  22,000            38
Kitwe                        7,878             20.1                                  9,500             22




                                                          - 37 -

TOTAL                       160,075           29                 180,945   35

Details of calculations are provided in the Files.

ZESCO - Actual Financial Performance Compared to PAD Estimates

Details of analysis are available in the filesprovided.




                                                       - 38 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              2/6/1997                  9    Team Leader (1)
                                             Operations Anlyst (1)
                                             Private Sector Development
                                             Specialist (1)
                                             Energy Economist (2)
                                             Environmental Specialist (1)
                                             Anthropologist (1)
                                             Environmental Scientist (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              6/30/1997               22     Team Leader (1)
                                             Operations Analyst (1)
                                             Private Sector Specialist (1)
                                             Energy Economist (2)
                                             Economist (1)
                                             Task Team Assistants (2)
                                             Financial Mangement
                                             Specialist (1)
                                             Environmental Specialist (1)
                                             Distribution Engineer (1)
                                             IFC Investment Officer (1)
                                             Dam Engineer (1)
                                             Renewable Energy Specialist
                                             (1)
                                             Procurement Engineer (1)
                                             Institutional Specialist (1)
                                             Legal (2)




 Supervision

              03/28/1998                5    TEAM LEADER (1); POWER              S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1); ENERGY
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             RESETTLEMENT
                                             SPECIATLIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1)
              01/10/1999                2    TEAM LEADER (1);                    S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST/CONS
                                             (1)
              03/14/1999                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR.           U               U
                                             POWER ENGINEER (1)
              06/22/1999                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);               S               S



                                              - 39 -

                                                    LEAD ENERGY SPECIALIST
                                                    (1); HYDROPOWER
                                                    SPECIALIST (1)
               02/26/2000                     3     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);               S    S
                                                    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                                    REGULATION SPECIALIST (1)
               10/07/2000                     6     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);               S    U
                                                    HYDROPOWER SPECIALIST
                                                    (1); POWER ENGINEER (1);
                                                    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                                    INFORMATION ANALYST (1);
                                                    ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                                    (1)
               10/07/2000                     3     TASK TEAM LEADER (1); IT            S    U
                                                    SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                                    ANALYST (1)
               10/26/2001                     3     TASK TEAM LEADER (1); IT            S    S
                                                    SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                                    MANAGEMENT (1)
               03/20/2002                     5     Task Team Leader (1); Energy        S    S
                                                    Specialist (1); Economist (1);
                                                    Information Technology (1);
                                                    Financial Analyst (1)
               12/03/2002                     6     LEAD PWR ENGINEER/TTL               S    S
                                                    (1); ENERGY SPECIALIST (1);
                                                    INFO TECHNOLOGY
                                                    ANALYST (1); FINANCIAL
                                                    MGMT. SPEC. (1); Biomass
                                                    Energy Spec (1); Social
                                                    Specialist (1)
               04/02/2003                     3     Lead POWER ENGINEER,TL              S    S
                                                    (1); PROCUREMENT
                                                    SPECIALIST (1);
                                                    YP,FINANCIAL REVIEW (1)
               03/01/2200                     2     TEAM LEADER (1); INFO.              S    S
                                                    TECHNOLOGY SPEC. (1)


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  180**                              8,290
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                     80                             1,250
  ICR                                             10                                35
  Total                                          270                             9,575
    ** Includes Appraisal/Negotiation and consultant's time



                                                    - 40 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

.Harmonization Report, Private Participation Options Study for ZESCO and Restructuring the Electrcity
Market In Zambia
USAID Report Prepared by Nexant, October 2001

Performance Contract GRZ/ZESCO, May 1996

Gwembe-Tonga Status Report, November 2003, and Quarterly Progress Reports

National Energy Policy Document, Ministry of Energy and Water Development, May 1994

ZESCO Audited Financial Statements 2001-2006 and Annual Reports

Project Appraisal Document: Power Rehabilitation Project, January 1998

Quartely Progress Reports- Zambia Power Rehabilitation Project

Feasibility Study of Lusaka, Kitwe, and Ndola Power Distribution Networks

Victorial Falls Power Station Environmental and Social Impact Assessment StudyStudy

Feasibility Studies for Rehabilitation of Victoria Falls, Kafue Gorge, and Kariba North Bank Hydropower
Stations

Ministry of Energy and Water Development- OPPI/ZESCO Limited
Power Rehabilitation Project
Integrated Kafue River Basin Environmental Impact Asswessment Study




                                                    - 43 -

Additional Annex 8. Additional Key Performance Indicators


  1.  Plant availability (%) Kafue Gorge Power Station
  a.  Target                    92%
  b.   Actual 2004/05           67%
  c.   Actual 2005/06 NA Rehabilitation and Repowering not yet completed

  2.   Transmission system reliability    (330 KV line)
  a.   (unplanned interruptions hours per 100 km per month)
       Target                              NA
       Actual
  i.   2000                               109.5
  ii. 2003/04 (midterm)                   136.5            310.5
  iii. 2004/05 (fiscal year)              NA                  5.6
  b.   Percentage Availability
       Target                              NA
       Actual
  i.   2000                               NA
  ii. 2003/04                             84.1
  iii. 2004/05                            93.3

  3.   Transmission system reliability    (220 KV line)
       Target                             NA
       Actual
  i.   2000                               NA
  ii. 2003/04                             91.3%
  iii. 2004/05                            99.3%

  4.   Transmission system reliability    (132 KV line)
       Target                             NA
       Actual
  i.   2000                               NA
  ii. 2003/04                             97.9%
  iii. 2004/05                            99.6%
  iv. 2005/06                             NA

  5.   Total Losses - Transmission plus Distribution (%)
       Target                              l4%
       Actuals
  i.   2000                               27.75%
  ii. 2003/04 (midterm)                           23.5
  iii. 2004/05 (fiscal year)              21.0

  6.   Accounts receivable (days (all customers except CEC and exports)
                                Target            Actuals
  a.   2000                     90                293
  b.   2003/04 (midterm)                  60               169
  c.   2005/06 (fiscal year)    60                  NA

  7.   Revenue generation above that needed to cover operating expenses, debt service and working capital
                                Target             Actual
  a.   2000                     10%               Shortfall: revenue 4.1%,



                                                    - 44 -

b.    2003/04 (midterm)          15%       Shortfall
c.    2005/06 (fiscal year)      15%                Shortfall
                                 :
8.    Promote Private Participation in power sector
a.    Launch policy framework for promoting private investment in hydropower and transmission lines
i.    In Place by May 1999
ii. Implementation Progress 2003: none
iii. Implementation Progress 2006: none

9.    Performance of ZESCO's Environmental and Social Affairs Unit (ESU)
a.    2000 through 2005/06 (fiscal year) Highly Satisfactory

10. Accounts Separated for Generation, Transmission, Distribution as part of preparation for sector
unbundling.
a.    No action taken to date

11. Institutional Development
a.    Commercial Operation
i.    Price increases inadequate to meet goal
ii. Prices negotiated with new large scale users inadequate to meet goals
b.    Financial Management
i.    Improving, but insufficient staff resources focused on regulatory affairs, which has hindered
implementation of timely rate increases
c.    Project Management
i.    Excellent project management of highly complex project
d.    Distribution system in Lusaka rehabilitated
i.    Completed
e.    Hydropower plants rehabilitated
i.    In progress with achievable timetable
f.    Tonga rehabilitation component
i.    Bottom Road-Study completed but no roads rebuilt. No funds available to implement program. A small
section will be rehabilitated to make it passable.
ii. Health clinics and schools: several health clinics and schools built
iii. Rural electrification: 600 km of lines strung, several communities electrified, but major effort awaits
construction of roads
iv. Irrigation systems: none developed
v.    Small Dams and Weirs of nine dams and weirs planned, three dams and one weir have been built
vi. Agricultural advisory systems-efforts started but most have been abandoned
vii. HIV/AIDS program successfully implemented
viii. Water reticulation system rehabilitation of the two village system rehabilitations planned one has been
completed




                                                     - 45 -

Additional Annex 9. ZESCO Commercialization Roadmap


        Entry point (end August 2003- Revised end-December 2003)                        Remarks
  A1    Evidence of ZESCO technical and non-technical loss reduction on a monthly
        basis from March 2003
  A2.1  Governmental agencies will begin paying current electricity bills starting from
        July 2003
  A2.2  Agreement with Ministry of Local Government on a settlement plan for arrears
        and current bills owed to ZESCO by all Local Government agencies/Councils
        by August 2003
  A2.3  Local Government agencies/Councils will begin paying electricity bills starting
        from January 2004, with actual payments to be not later than quarterly in
        arrears
  A3    Agreement with ZESCO on a settlement plan (reconciliation of amounts and
        settlement schedule) for historical arrears owed to ZESCO by the
        Governmental agencies including local agencies
  A4    Payment by the Government of RAMCOZ current electricity bills starting from
        January 2004, with actual payments to be not later than quarterly in arrears, so
        long as RAMCOZ is under receivership
  A5    A settlement plan (reconciliation of amounts and settlement schedule)
        regarding RAMCOZ electricity bills due to ZESCO for the period that it is
        under receivership
  A6    ZESCO Board approval for amendment of Articles of Association by end of
        July 2003
  A7    Constitution of a new ZESCO Board with 7-9 members, of whom at most 2
        from public sector
  A8    MEWD proposal outlining major elements of amendment of the ERB Act and
        Electricity Act
  A9    ERB resolution of the pending ZESCO tariff adjustment application by end
        May 2003
  A10   ERB capacity strengthening: selection process started for engaging
        international regulatory expert (s)-financing could be obtained through
        re-allocation of the PRP Credit
        Interim point (end December 2003 ­ Revised end-December 2004)
  B1    ERB Act amended
  B2    International regulatory expert engaged
  B3    MEWD proposal outlining major elements of amendment of the Electricity Act
        after broad consultation and review
  B4    MEWD proposal outlining major elements of a separate legal act for
        private/public partnership (if required)
        Evaluation point (end June 2005-Revised November 15, 2006)
  C1    Implementation of the settlement plan for arrears owed by the Governmental
        agencies completed
  C2    Implementation of the settlement plan for RAMCOZ arrears completed
  C3    Post evaluation of ZESCO business plan preparation process, implementation
        results, and management performance




                                                    - 46 -

Additional Annex 10. Detailled Borrower/Implementing Agency Contribution


                       BORROWER'S IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                          ZESCO LIMITED
                              ZAMBIA POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT

  1.   Project Data

  Report Date:                                       31st December 2005.
  Name:                                       Zambia Power Rehabilitation Project
  L/C Number:                                        Cr 3042-ZM
  Country/Department:                                Zambia/Energy
  Region:                                     Southern Africa
  Sector/Subsector:                           Energy

  Key Dates
                                     Original                         Revised Actual
  Project Concept Document:           No PCD Review                    IEPS in June, 1995
  Appraisal:                         30 July, 1997                    14 January, 1998
  Approval:                          31 December, 1997                15 June, 1998
  Effectiveness:                     31 December, 1998                2 March, 1999
  Mid Term Review:                   31 July, 2000                    31 August, 2003
  Closing:                           31 December, 2002                31 December, 2005

  Borrower:                          Government of the Republic of Zambia
  Implementing Agency:               ZESCO Limited
  Other Partners:                    Ministry of Energy and Water Development
                                     NORAD, DBSA, FINNIDA, Sida, NDF, AFD, EIB


  2.   Principal Performance Ratings

  CATEGORY                                                                              RATING
  Outcome:                                                                     Highly Satisfactory
  Sustainability:                                                              Highly Satisfactory
  Institutional Development Impact:                                            Highly Satisfactory
  Bank Performance:                                                            Satisfactory
  Borrower Performance:                                                        Satisfactory
  Quality at entry:                                                            Satisfactory
  Project at Risk at any time:                                                 YES




                                               - 47 -

3.   Assessment of Development Objective and Design

3.1 Original Objective
The Project's overall objective was to support the Government's objective of enhancing the ability of Zambia's
Electricity Supply Industry (ESI) to provide electricity at least cost and in an efficient and sustainable manner
to stimulate more and inclusive growth in the Zambian economy.

The Project was also designed to support:

     a)      Government's policy of establishing an institutional and regulatory framework conducive to
             sustainable efficiency and private participation in the power sector;
     b)      Improvement in the efficiency and ensuring the financial viability of the ZESCO through
             capacity-building measures and a Commercialisation plan based on corporate autonomy and
             management accountability which would have enhanced the Company's resource mobilisation
             and include such action as un-bundling of generation, transmission and distribution;
     c)      Improvement in technical efficiency and the quality and reliability of supply in ZESCO's
             physical system through rehabilitation of, and loss reduction in, the existing generation,
             transmission and distribution systems; and
     d)      Implementation of the rehabilitation and environment mitigation management plan for the
             Gwembe-Tonga, a group of people who were unsuccessfully resettled during the construction of
             Kariba Dam and Victoria Falls Environmental Management Plan.

     Revised Objectives
The objective to commercialise ZESCO has been redefined by GRZ through an agreement between GRZ and
the World Bank, defining a Commercialisation Roadmap.

3.2 Original Components

The Program consisted of the following components (as individual projects):
     i)   Three covering the rehabilitation and the refurbishment of hydro Power Stations
         a)  Kafue Gorge
         b) Kariba North, and
         c)  Victoria Falls
     ii)     One covering the transmission system rehabilitation,
     iii)    Three covering the distribution system rehabilitation,
         a)  Lusaka Distribution System,
         b) Kitwe Distribution System, and
         c)  Ndola Distribution System
     iv) Two are related to the environmental and social impact mitigation,
         a)  Gwembe-Tonga, and
         b) Victoria Falls
     v)   Two covering Institutional capacity building and Commercialisation,
         a)  Human Resource Development and Capacity Building, and
         b) Accounting and Financial Management Information System.
     vi)     Two covering sectoral reform
         a)  Power Sector Reform, and
         b) Tariff Study
     vii)    two covering other technical issues
         a)  Distribution Loss Reduction, and
         b) Kariba Dam Safety

3.2.1 Revised Components
The following components had their objectives revised:
     i)      Two covering the rehabilitation and the refurbishment of hydro Power Stations, (scope was



                                                   - 48 -

               amended to include uprating)
           a) Kafue Gorge,
           b) Kariba North
    ii)        One covering the distribution system rehabilitation (cancelled, but SCADA component taken to
               Kitwe),
          a)   Ndola Distribution System.
    iii)       One related to the environmental and social impact mitigation (tourism scope removed),
          a)   Victoria Falls.
    iv)            two covering other technical issues
          a)   Distribution Loss Reduction (operator did not take over operations), and
          b) Kariba Dam Safety (cancelled)

3.3 Project Financing and Costs

3.3.1          Project Financing
Different financiers fund the Project. The following are the various Loans, Grants, and Credit Agreements
signed towards the funding of the Project:

a) Agence Francaise de Developpement, AFD
       AFD's contribution towards the Project was to be through a Grant and a direct Loan to ZESCO.
       However, the direct Loan to ZESCO was withdrawn.
       i) Grant (FRF 20 Million): The grant was used for the services on the Lusaka West             Customer
Services Project.
       ii) Loan (FRF 48 Million): The Loan was signed on 10 December 1998. However, AFD cancelled the
       loan because ZESCO could not meet the AFD deadline of 31 October 2000 for presentation of the Loan
       Appraisal to their Board. An appeal against the cancellation had been forwarded to AFD, but was not
       considered. ZESCO could not provide a Signed deed of Assignment by Way of Mortgage of all the
       revenues from the Bulk Supply Agreement (BSA) with Copperbelt Energy Corporation Plc (CEC)
       because CEC could not give a Letter of Consent on the Assignment by Way of Mortgage Agreement.
       This was due to the Credit Risk Agreement that was in force at the time. The Credit Risk Agreement
       (CRA) only fell off on 9th February 2001, after GRZ paid off the about US$4.5 Million which was the
       CEC portion of the debt.

b)     Development Bank of Southern Africa, DBSA (ZAR 210,393,000+US$ 35,200,000 +US$
       21,000,000)
       DBSA has provided funding to the project through direct loans to ZESCO. The first loan was signed on
       22 July 1998 and became effective in December 2001. The disbursements started on 14th December
       2001 after ZESCO met the conditionalities for disbursements i.e. the signing on 8th December 2001 of
       the: i) Escrow Agreement, and ii) the Assignment by Way of Mortgage.

       The DBSA loans was to share the same security with the AFD Loan. ZESCO could not provide security
       for the loan until the Credit Risk Agreement fell away after 9 February 2001. Furthermore, there were
       delays in disbursement effectiveness due to changes in the projects DBSA was going to finance. Instead
       of Co-financing the Ndola and Kitwe rehabilitation projects, DBSA financed the whole of Kitwe
       Rehabilitation and co-financed the Victoria Falls rehabilitation. ZESCO also changed the Bank for the
       Escrow Account from Citibank to Standard Chartered Bank.

       DBSA further provided two additional loans to ZESCO, a second loan in the sum of
        US$ 35.2 million to meet shortfalls arising from exchange losses and higher-than-budget bids. A third
       loan in the sum of US $21 million was provided for the Kariba North upgrade of Units 3&4 (turbine
       and generators).

c)     European Investment Bank, EIB (32 million)
       There are three specific loan agreements, two loaned to GRZ and on lent to ZESCO and one directly



                                                   - 49 -

      loaned to ZESCO. Of the two loans to GRZ, one is for Victoria Falls Rehabilitation Project and the
      other for the Kariba North Rehabilitation Project. The loans were signed in Lusaka on 14th August
      1998 and in Luxembourg on 3 September 1998. Disbursements started in December 2000. Start of
      disbursement was delayed because the conditionality of ZESCO/GRZ implementing the Automatic
      Tariff Adjustment Formula (ATAF), as an automatic formula, that would not require prior application
      to the Energy Regulation Board before applying it. This required that the Electricity Act be amended
      and was not possible. A letter of comfort was then written to EIB explaining how and when amendment
      could be done. EIB agreed to the procedure and commenced the disbursements.

      EIB have increased funding on the two loans to GRZ to cover exchange losses, in the amounts of 4
      million for Kariba North and 4.5 million for Victoria Falls Rehabilitation Projects bringing the total
      funding towards the Project to  40.5 million. EIB has further provided 7.6 million, through a direct
      loan to ZESCO. These funds will go towards upgrading of Units 3&4 auxiliary equipment i.e.
      transformers, 330kV cables and associated busbars and equipment.

d)    Finnish International Development Agency, FINNIDA (FIM 3 Million)
      The FINNIDA grant agreement was a continuation agreement between the Governments of Finland and
      the Zambia, supporting the Power Sector. The Grant Agreement became effective immediately ZESCO
      engaged the consultant for Lusaka Distribution Rehabilitation Project.

e)    International Development Association (World Bank), (SDR 55,100,000)
      The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement were signed on 15 June 1998. Several
      Conditionalities were to be met by both ZESCO and the Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ)
      before the Credit could be declared effective. Upon fulfilment of the conditions precedent to
      effectiveness, the credit was declared effective on 2 March 1999 and disbursements soon after.

f)    Norwegian Agency for International Development, NORAD (NOK 98,000,000)
      Funding from NORAD was by way of a grant to GRZ and on lent to ZESCO. The Grant Agreement
      between NORAD and GRZ was signed on 21 May 1998, immediately became effective and
      disbursements soon commenced. NORAD funds financed the contracts on the Transmission
      Rehabilitation Project. These contracts were: Construction Supervision, Kitwe and Luano Substations
      Rehabilitation, SCADA and NCC Back-Up, and Telecommunications.

g)    Nordic Development Fund, NDF (SDR 5,000,000)
      The Credit Agreement was signed on 28 September 1999. The Credit became effective on 9 February
      2001, when ZESCO and GRZ signed the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA) satisfactory to NDF. The
      funds were used for the Lusaka & Ndola SCADA Contracts and including the rehabilitation of Roma
      Substation in Lusaka.

h)    Swedish International Development Agency, Sida (SEK 33,900,000)
Three Grant Agreements were signed on 7 August 1998. The specific Agreements were for:
   i)        Technical Assistance for the establishment of the Environmental and Social Affairs Unit (ESU),
   ii)       Institutional Development of ZESCO and Institutional Development of the Energy Regulation
   Board (ERB), and
   iii)      Technical Assistance to the rehabilitation of Kafue Gorge Power Station.

  All Grant Agreements became effective immediately after signature. Sida increased funding to cover for the
  extension of technical assistance to the rehabilitation of Kafue Gorge Power Station.

i)    Government of the Republic of Zambia's Rural Electrification Fund (USD 4.31 million)
      Government contribution on the PRP was towards the Gwembe ­ Tonga Lake-Shore Electrification
      Project.

J)    ZESCO Limited (USD 63 Million, including the Operational Budget)


                                                    - 50 -

       ZESCO's contribution to the project is towards specific components and all shortfalls not met through
       funding from financiers including what is used to cover price escalations and scope variations.

3.3.2          Project Costs
It is anticipated that the project cost at completion will be about US$300 million excluding the cost estimate of
US$ 127 million for the construction of the `Bottom Road' on the Gwembe Tonga Project which was not
secured at the time of project closure. The original cost estimate were US$ 206 million, and included a
provision for roads reconstruction on the Gwembe Tonga of US$ 2.6 million. The increase on the overall
project were due to higher than the budget bids received. The higher bids are attributed to price escalations
from the time the estimates were made to when the bids were received. Another factor is the revised and/or
additional scopes of the various project components.

It should be noted that because of delays in credit disbursement effectiveness and protracted procurement
processes of most contracts in generation, when rehabilitation started and the machines (Generators and
Turbines) were dismantled, a significant difference in the state of machines has been found from what was
stated during feasibility studies and tender documents preparation, leading to variations to scope of works and
hence extension to implementation schedule and increased project costs.

It should further be noted that at Kafue Gorge Power Station, there are/were several number of contracts for
the works on the same machines, which has resulted into reorganising, or complexity in the shut downs of the
machines. Some components/contracts have had to be delayed in order to harmonise with other contracts to
minimize same plant being shut down frequently. Alignment of implementation schedules for different
contracts so that only two (2) machines are shut down at any particular time had to be done. The changes in
scope include; change from rehabilitation of generators to up-rating, and also the supply of new up-rated
transformers at Kafue Gorge Rehabilitation. At Kariba north Power Station the scope had to be changed
besides rehabilitation, to uprating of all the units at an estimated to cost US$ 40 million.

It is now estimated that the overall Project cost will come to about US$ 300 million when works at Kafue
Gorge and Kariba North are completed. ZESCO's total contribution, including project management costs, will
be US$ ------million (including project price escalation and variation orders).

In summary project costs increases were due to:
     ·         Scope variations due to time lag between design studies and implementation (1995 to
     2002/2008)
     ·         Currency exchange rate movements
     ·         Scope change from rehabilitation only to rehabilitation and uprating
     ·         Increased implementation period leading to price escalations




                                                      - 51 -

ZAMBIA:POWERREHABILITATIONPROJECT
SUMMARYOFREVISEDPROJECTFINANCINGPLAN


           PROJECTCOMPONENT               REVISED PROJECTCOST                       FINANCINGPLAN                            FINANCINGPLAN
CODE           (CONTRACTS)           LOCAL    FOREIGN     TOTAL     ZESCO    IDA    EIB     DBSA   NORAD    SIDA  AFD  FINNIDA  NDF      GRZ    TOTAL
 A VictoriaFalls                      22,836     25,770     48,606   22,836     -   17,720   8,050      -     -     -     -        -        -    48,606
                                         -          -          -        -              -                                                             -
 B KafueGorge                         21,882     48,699     70,582   21,855  30,490    -    14,597      -   3,612   -     -        -        28   70,582
                                         -          -          -        -       -      -       -        -      -    -      -       -        -        -
 C KaribaNorth                        15,369     62,812     78,181   15,369     50  26,408  36,232      -     122   -     -        -        -    78,181
                                         -          -          -        -       -      -       -        -      -     -      -       -       -        -
 D KaribaDamSafety                       -          -          -        -       -      -       -        -     -     -     -        -        -       -


 E TransmissionSystemRehabilitation     108      30,882     30,989      63   17,566    -       -     13,315   -     -     -        -        45   30,989
                                         -          -          -        -       -      -       -        -      -     -      -       -       -        -
 F LusakaDistributionSystemRehab       2,275     22,411     24,686    2,275  15,486    -       -        -     -     -     491    6,434      -    24,686
                                         -          -          -        -       -      -       -        -      -     -      -       -       -        -
 G CopperbeltDistribution                -       12,283     12,283      -     1,045    -    11,238      -     -     -     -        -        -    12,283
                                         -          -          -        -       -      -       -        -      -     -      -       -       -        -
 H CustomerServicesManagement            -        1,804      1,804      -       -      -       -        -     -   1,804   -        -        -     1,804
                                         -          -          -        -       -      -       -        -     -     -     -        -        -       -
 I Gwembe-TongaMitigation              5,060      7,286     12,346     204    5,856    -     1,430      -     -     -     -        -      4,856  12,346
                                         -          -          -        -       -      -       -        -      -     -      -       -       -        -
 J ZESCOInst.CapacityBuilding          1,233      4,623      5,856    1,233   3,074    -       -        -   1,549   -     -        -        -     5,856
                                         -          -          -        -       -      -       -        -      -     -      -       -       -        -
 K HPP/TLPImplementation                 -        3,361      3,361      -     1,667    -      824       -     870   -     -        -        -     3,361
                                                                        -       -      -       -        -     -     -     -        -        -       -
 L Unallocated                                      -          -                -                                                                   -



                  TOTAL              68,763     219,930    288,693  63,835   75,234 44,128  72,371  13,315  6,153 1,804   491    6,434   4,928  288,692
    Table 1: Revised Financing as per Financier

    4.     Achievement of Overall Objectives and Outputs

    The Zambia Power Rehabilitation Project (PRP) was scheduled to be completed by 31 December 2002 as per
    the Development Credit Agreement, DCA signed between the Government of the Republic of Zambia and the
    International Development Agency (IDA) dated 15 June 1998. Similarly, all other Loan/Credit Agreements for
    co-financing on the Project were signed to close by December 2002. The IDA initially extended to 31
    December 2004 and to 31 December 2005. However, Financiers whose funding is for projects still in progress
    have extended their respective credit closing dates. The European Investment Bank (EIB) and Development
    Bank of Southern Africa (DBSA) have extended to December 2008.

    Overall, the implementation of the PRP is considered satisfactory in terms of achieving the overall objectives,
    with the components mostly now completed. The Zambia's Electricity Supply Industry (ESI) is now set to
    provide electricity at least cost and in an efficient and sustainable manner. Furthermore, latest investment
    activities in the country, especially in the mining sector, reflect how the industry has and is contributing to
    stimulate more and inclusive growth in the Zambian economy.

    As part of the overall achievements of its objectives, the Project has rendered and achieved significant support:
    a)     To the establishing and strengthening of institutional and regulatory framework. i.e., there have been
    further amendments to the Electricity Act and the Energy Regulation Act, and the Energy Regulation Board
    has been strengthened. The Office for Promoting Private Power Investments (OPPPI) has been formed and the
    `Framework and package of incentives for Private Sector Participation in Hydropower generation and
    Transmission development' put in place.
    b) To the improvement in the efficiency and ensuring the financial viability of the ZESCO through
    capacity-building measures and a Commercialisation Roadmap plan based on corporate autonomy and
    management accountability which has resulted in enhanced Company's resource mobilisation and profitability.

    c)     To the improvement in technical efficiency and the quality and reliability of supply in ZESCO's physical
    system, including increase in generation capacity at Kafue Gorge and Kariba north power Stations. There has
    been significant reduction in losses in the transmission and distribution systems; and
    d) To the implementation of the rehabilitation and environment mitigation management plan for the



                                                                       - 52 -

Gwembe-Tonga. Several new infrastructure were constructed, including a school, four new clinics, over thirty
borehole (tubewells) and three dams. Several agriculture extension activities and associated agriculture
training were also undertaken.

5.  Achievement of Physical Objectives and Outputs

The Physical Objectives were to be achieved through the Rehabilitation and Reinforcement of (a) Victoria
Falls (108MW) Power Plant; (b) Kafue Gorge (900MW) Power Plant; (c) Kariba North (600MW) Power Plant;
(d) Kariba dam safety; (d) Transmission System Rehabilitation and Reinforcement; (e) Lusaka Distribution
Reinforcement and Rehabilitation; (f) Copperbelt Distribution Rehabilitation and Reinforcement; and through
implementation of (g) Gwembe-Tonga Environmental Mitigation Program.
The implementation of the PRP is considered satisfactory in terms of achieving these physical objectives, with
most components now completed.

    ·        A new Lusaka West 330KV/132KV substation and a Line from Kafue West to the new Lusaka
    West Substation have been built and commissioned. Thus improving the security of supply into the Lusaka
    areas.
    ·        The distribution rehabilitation works in Kitwe and Lusaka were successfully completed, with
    increased substation capacities which are now monitored online.
    ·        The Gwembe Tonga Project - a school, four new clinics, over thirty boreholes (tubewells) and
    three dams have been constructed. Besides, several agriculture extension activities and associated
    agriculture training have been undertaken.
    ·        The ZESCO Institutional Capacity Building- has been satisfactory. The PIU has been well
    trained and been able to manage the implementation of the PRP successfully. Several training
    programmes have been undertaken covering staff from all directorates/department; in excess of 500
    employees have been trained.
    ·        The formation of the Environmental and Social Unit (ESU) was completed and the unit is fully
    functional and undertaking a lead in environmental management (monitoring and evaluation) and studies
    on the different projects ZESCO is undertaking.
    ·        The Hydropower and Transmission Line Policy component progressed well under the office for
    Promoting Private Power Investment including the strengthening of the Energy Regulation Board
    implemented.
    Specifically the following were achieved by components.


5.1 Generation Projects:

The original objectives of the generation projects were:

    (a) Victoria Falls. (i) refurbishment of turbines, valves and generators of Stations B and C; replacement
    of Station B step up transformers; (iii) modifications of the draft tube of Station C; and (iv) environmental
    mitigation plan involving conversion of Station A (writing off the 8MW capacity) into a Power Station
    Museum; waste management and site restoration; tourist trolley construction; Stabilization of hillsides etc.
    and (v) technical assistance for project supervision.

    (b) Kafue Gorge. (i) Civil works rehabilitation for, inter alia, removal of aquatic weeds; spillway gates
    corrosion protection; repair of tunnels and shafts; survey of sedimentation deposits. (ii) Electromechanical
    Rehabilitation providing for refurbishment of turbines and generators, each of 6 units with a capacity of
    150MW; replacement of four single phase transformers; overhaul of the 330kV switchgear and
    replacement of the 17.5kV switching station; busbar protection; (iii) replacement and upgrade of safety
    measures in the station.

    (c) Kariba North. (i) Civil works rehabilitation include the intake deck and machine hall, penstock and
    tailrace tunnels, duct replacement; (ii) Electromechanical works include refurbishment of all 4 turbines
    and generators, transformers, guide vanes and governors; replacement of the draft tube steel lining and



                                                   - 53 -

    repair of mobile crane; (iii) refurbishment and upgrade of safety measures; and (iv) technical supervision.

Achievements of the above objectives are discussed below.

5.1.1          Victoria Falls
The original objectives of Victoria Falls rehabilitation were to be achieved through: (i) refurbishment of
turbines, valves and generators of Stations B and C; replacement of Station B step up transformers; (iii)
modifications of the draft tube of Station C; and (iv) environmental mitigation plan involving conversion of
Station A (writing off the 8MW capacity) into a Power Station Museum; waste management and site
restoration; tourist trolley construction; Stabilization of hillsides, Siphon scour discharge relocation etc.

There were revisions to the scope for the environmental mitigation plan. The tourism and trolley construction
were scaled down.

The Victoria Falls Rehabilitation, financed by EIB, DBSA and ZESCO, suffered about a year's delay in the
evaluation phase. This delay was mainly due to the concerns on the higher bids received as compared to the
budget as the hydropower station capacity was not comparable to Kariba and Kafue to justify the investment.
The rehabilitation works commenced on 25 June 2002, with a completion period of 28 months. However, the
entire project would be completed in April 2006. Station B (60 MW), and Station C (40 MW) were completed
in September 2005, and are fully operational. All the Units have been commissioned and for the first time
since Station C was built, each machine (4 off) is able to generate up to 10 MW, its original design capacity.
The maximum each machine could attain was 8 MW.. The limitations to operate at design capacity were due
to vibrations which have since been corrected through modifications to the draft tubes. Rehabilitation works on
Station A (8 MW) were completed at the end of December 2005.

The increases in variation orders, the exchange losses between the US Dollar and the Euro, and the delays that
have occurred have resulted in increase in cost to about US$ 50.4 million from an estimated US$ 23.4 million
at appraisal (an increase of about 115%). It is recognized the appraisal figure was under-estimated. It was
further increased by the fact that it took much longer between the time rehabilitation studies were done (1996)
and the time implementation commenced (2002). More deterioration occurred on the machinery which then
required more extensive additional works to be carried out. The rehabilitation will increase the operating life
of the power generating units by at least 25 years.

The environmental action plans to relocate the residencies of ZESCO staff from the Game Park has not been
fully implemented, but is in progress. The site to which the personnel are to be relocated has been secured and
about fifty percent (50%) of the staff have relocated. The siphon scour has been relocated and the sites
restored.

Overall, the implementation of the Victoria falls rehabilitation is considered satisfactory The generation
installed capacity has been restored. By restoring the generation capacity to 108MW, it makes the whole
Project cost effective notwithstanding the implementation delays.

5.1.2         Kafue Gorge Rehabilitation Project.
The original objectives of Kafue Gorge rehabilitation were to be achieved through:                (i) Civil Works
rehabilitation for inter alia, removal of aquatic weeds; spillway gates corrosion protection; repair of tunnels
and shafts; survey of sedimentation deposits. (ii) Electromechanical Rehabilitation providing for refurbishment
of turbines and generators, each of 6 units with a capacity of 150MW; replacement of four single phase
transformers; overhaul of the 330kV switchgear and replacement of the 17.5kV switching station; busbar
protection; (iii) replacement and upgrade of safety measures in the station.

The subcomponent projects were as follows:
    i.        Civil Works rehabilitation
    ii.       Electromechanical rehabilitation and Replacement of four single phase transformers




                                                      - 54 -

    iii.      Technical supervision.

However, due to revisions in the objectives, the subcomponents now include:
    i.        Civil Works rehabilitation
    ii.       Electromechanical rehabilitation (Turbines and control system)
    iii.      Generator rehabilitation and replacement of 17.5 Switchgear
    iv.       Replacement of ten single phase transformers with ten upgraded (from 94 MVA to 135 MVA)
    single phase transformers.
    v.        Uprating (upgrading) of the Generator, (6 off) from 150 MW to 180MW and Re-profiling of
    Turbine runners
    vi.       Technical supervision.

The revised objectives for Kafue Gorge Power Station Rehabilitation now to include, Uprating of Machines (6
off Generators -recoring and rewinding from 150 MW to 180MW, re-profile all 6 turbines from 150 MW to
165 MW) and Transformers (each single phase transformer from 94 MVA to 135 MVA).

When preparatory works the Project started in 1996 it was envisaged that the installed generation capacity was
sufficient and a load forecast study done earlier, showed that the load would outstrip installed capacity by
2010. Hence, it was not found necessary at the time to include the provision of uprating Power Stations
machines in the scope of Power Rehabilitation Projects. This was with the view that it would be only after the
rehabilitation works are completed that consideration will be done to uprate the Units, especially at Kariba and
possibly uprate the units at Kafue Gorge Power Station. However, figures of actual demand show that the
installed capacity will be exhausted by 2007. The load growth in Zambia is increasing faster than anticipated
with the coming of new mining companies, commercial ventures and developments in Agriculture. Further
more power shortages are being experienced in most of the neighbouring and regional countries (Zimbabwe,
Namibia, Botswana, Tanzania and Kenya). These countries are export markets available for Zambian power.

Therefore, ZESCO changed scope of works at Kafue Gorge Power Station to include uprating all the units and
to replace all single phase transformers with new and uprated. The need for the uprating cannot therefore be
over-emphasised, as it will greatly contribute to economic growth.

While the load has been growing so rapidly, the installed capacity has not been growing. No new power station
is being built and/or will be commissioned by end of 2007. Depending on how soon the implementation
arrangements are completed Kafue Gorge Lower 600-800MW power plant may come on line about 2012 while
Itezhi Tezhi 120MW power plant about 2008/9. Thus, every extra power to be generated from the existing
machines by the fastest means is most needed by end 2006-7.

These uprating works have and will further contribute to delays in completing project implementation at the
power station.

Outcome/Achievement of Objective
Overall, the implementation of the Kafue Gorge Rehabilitation is considered highly satisfactory in terms of
achieving the physical objectives, with the components mostly now completed. The Project is highly likely to
achieve substantial development results, without major shortcomings when completed. The generation
installed capacity will increase from 900MW to 990MW. By achieving the extra 90MW, it makes the whole
Kafue Gorge Power Station Project cost effective notwithstanding the implementation delays.

Civil, Road and Mechanical Works (CD 92-93),
The original scope included: replacement of sacrificial anodes; repair of spillways; various civil works in the
powerhouse; new large sliding fire door; aquatic weed control; construction vehicles, workshop machines,
tools; supply of hydraulic cylinder; crack monitoring equipment; grating hatch; transformer house (T25 &
T26); renovation of personnel rooms; intake structure; supply of surveying equipment and training; and road
works.




                                                    - 55 -

The project was financed by IDA and ZESCO and started on 15 January 2001 and was completed 11
September, 2003. The works done include; Construction of the fire cells, road works, and powerhouse civil
works including the powerhouse sliding door; rock anchor installation to stabilise the hill rock at the spillway
gates, replacement of seals for the spillway gates, replacement of sacrificial anodes at the Penstock cylinder
gates, excavation of an escape tunnel from the control room to the access tunnel, Construction of two
transformer houses at the former pothead yard. Also a total of 32,000 cubic meters of weed was harvested,
successfully reducing the threat of the weed, which has all together disappeared, and a new weed boom matrix
was installed.

Electrical and Turbine Works (CD 94-95),
The scope included: Ventilation and fire ventilation; rehabilitation of turbines (and reprofiling); auxiliary
transformers (shifting T25 & T26); 11kV switchgear; 0.4kV system, including lighting and power socket
outlets; DC system; control system (operator station, limit switches, reservoir water level measurement and
furniture); escape route markings; relocation of lift transformers; CAD station; and training; Auxiliary
Transformers T21 and T22; Station Transformers T11 and T12; and 345/16.7/16.7 kV Generator
Transformers.

These works were originally to be executed under one contract. However, when tenders were issued and only
two (02) bidders (BHEL and ABB Generation/Kvaener Energy) responded. The bids were evaluated, but while
evaluation it was discovered that because of proprietary nature of turbine works, it was proposed and confirm
that the works be split into two contracts. ZESCO engaged an Independent Consultant (Hydro-Quebec) to
review the tender documents in line with the Banks request in this respect. The contract was to be `split' as
follows:
    i)                 Contract for Rehabilitation of Turbines to be offered to Alstom.
    ii)       Contract for Control Equipment, Rehabilitation of transformers and Supply of New Transformers
    to be offered to BHARAT Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL).

However, BHEL could not agree to the split due to the `way they had priced their bid' and also could not get
an extension of the Manufacturer's guarantee on the control equipment from the sub-contractor. Leading to
BHEL withdrawing their bid, i.e. bid validity lapsed and was not renewed. Hence, ABB Generation/Kvaener
Energy Consortium (now Alstom Generation/GE Hydro) was given the contract, but excluding the scope for
rehabilitation, supply and installation of unit transformers. It was agreed to tender the scope for rehabilitation,
supply and installation of unit transformers as a separate package called TD 98.

The Contract was signed on 15th November 2001 and became effective on 1 January 2002. It was anticipated
the all works would be completed by January 2004. However, the following has been achieved; rehabilitation
of Unit 2 (June 2003), rehabilitation of units 5&6 (September 2004), rehabilitation works on units 3&4 were
in progress and rehabilitation of unit 1 was yet to be done.

The main reasons for the delays include (i) The protracted procurement process (ii) A new scope has been
included, Reprofiling of the turbine runners (iii) Alignment with other contracts (Contract for Recoring and
Rewinding of Generators) which has longer activity durations. The entire project would be completed in
December 2007

Generators and Switchgear Rehabilitation Works.
The scope included: rehabilitation of Generators, excitation equipment and 330kV switchgears and
replacement of 17.5kV switchgears; which was originally to be financed by the French Development Bank
(AFD).

The project is financed by IDA, DBSA and ZESCO and started on 15 October 2002 and was to be completed
by December 2005. The works done and to be done include; rehabilitation of Generators including recoring
and rewinding, excitation equipment and replacement of 330kV switchgears and replacement of 17.5kV
switchgear. The works on Units 5&6 were completed in September 2004. Works on units 3&4 were in
progress and expected to be completed by March, 2006. Works on Units 1&2 are yet to be done.


                                                     - 56 -

The main reasons for the delays include (i) The protracted procurement process due to change in financiers,
AFD to IDA (ii) A new scope has been included, recoring and rewinding of generators (iii) Alignment with
other contracts (Contract for reprofiling of turbine runners) which has longer activity durations. The entire
project would be completed in December 2007.

5.1.2          Kariba North Bank Power Station.
The original objectives of Kariba North Bank Power Station. rehabilitation were to be achieved through: (i)
Civil works rehabilitation include the intake deck and machine hall, penstock and tailrace tunnels, duct
replacement; (ii) Electromechanical works include refurbishment of all 4 turbines and generators,
transformers, guide vanes and governors; replacement of the draft tube steel lining and repair of mobile crane;
(iii) refurbishment and upgrade of safety measures; and (iv) technical supervision.

The revised objectives for Kariba North Power Station Rehabilitation now to include, Uprating of Machines all
the four (4) Units from the 150MW to 180 MW. The scope of works will involve the following:
      ·        Replacement of Unit transformers with uprated (200 MVA) units
      ·        Replacement of two (2) runners (Units 3&4) and runner nose cone.
      ·        Uprating the generator main connection (isolated phase Busbars) at a voltage of 18kV.
      ·        Replacing the 330kV switchyard cable connection
      ·        Replacement of the existing stator laminations and stator key bars
      ·        Replacement of the existing 330 kV circuit breaker contacts, etc

The rehabilitation programme showed that major works were required for turbine plant, generators and the
balance of plant. Furthermore from the machine tests carried out during the study period, it was found that it
was possible to uprate the units from 150MW capacity to 180MW capacity. The rehabilitation work tender
documents therefore included uprating of two units (1 & 2) as part of the contract scope.

Subsequently, Norconsult Consultants carried out a specific Uprating study. This study, which was completed
in May 2004, was aimed at investigating the effect the operation of the uprated machine would have on the
whole power train (water ways, turbine auxiliary plant, machine bearings, civil structure, etc). The study
showed that there would be no negative effect of the machine operation on the system. It is with these results
and the demand forecast results, indicating that there will be energy shortfalls by 2009, that ZESCO decided to
uprate all the machines at Kariba North. Funding for both rehabilitation works and uprating works has been
secured from DBSA and EIB.


Rehabilitation works commenced with outage of Unit 1 on 15 April 2002 with contractual completion of
January 2005. However, after dismantling of Unit 1, it was found that the generator was not vertically aligned;
therefore investigations had to be done to establish the cause. It was further found that the existing drawings
for the stator key bars and laminations were not the same as the actual in place and therefore, the ones
manufactured by the contractor (according to the drawings) could not fit, and therefore new ones had to be
re-manufactured. These two issues resulted into over one year delay of completing works on Unit 1.The Unit
was commissioned on 20 July 2004. Unit 2 was shut down in August 2004 for rehabilitation works and
commissioned on 24 December 2005. Unit 3 is the next to be worked on. . The uprating works on units 3 and
4 would have to be aligned with the original contract works. The overall implementation of this contract is
scheduled for March 2008.

5.1.2.1        PCB Storage Facility
The was an additional scope to the Kariba North project which covered the construction of the PCB Storage
facility for the sum of ZMK 519,781,324 and was co-funded by CIDA and ZESCO.




                                                    - 57 -

5.2 Transmission Project

The objectives of the transmission projects were to the reinforcement and rehabilitation of the 330/220kV lines
and related substations. Re-establishment of the earthing system, replacement of tower members and damaged
insulator discs, repair of deteriorating concrete foundations, application of protection paint on towers,
replacement of various substation equipment, construction of some 45km transmission link, upgrading of the
supervisory control and data system (SCADA) and technical assistance for supervision. These objectives were
to be achieved through:
    1.        Rehabilitation of high voltage lines and towers, including:-
         ·    re-establishment of earthing system;
         ·    replacement of missing components on power transmission towers;
         ·    replacement of damaged insulator discs:
         ·    rehabilitation of tower foundations including repair of deteriorating concrete:
         ·    application of a protection paint coating on power transmission towers and
         ·    carrying out of other rehabilitation works agreed from time to time between the Borrower and
         Association.
    2.        Rehabilitation of Kitwe and Luano power substations including overhaul or replacement of
    circuit breakers, battery systems and compressors, and construction of oil pits.
    3.        Rehabilitation of control and protection equipment in the substations of Kitwe and Luano;
    4.        Rehabilitation and upgrading of the telecommunications system and of the supervisory control
    and data acquisition systems;
    5.        Rehabilitation of power substations in the South, Central and Lusaka regions, including overhaul
    or replacement of circuit breakers, battery systems and compressors, and construction of oil pits.
    6.        Rehabilitation of control and protection equipment in the substations of the South, Central and
    Lusaka regions.
    7.        Refurbishment of the control and relay protection system in the substations of the Lusaka regions
    and in the medium voltage system.
    8.        Rehabilitation of the medium voltage systems.
    9.        Reinforcement of the Lusaka High Voltage system.
    10.       Carrying out of the other rehabilitation and refurbishment works agreed from time to time
    between the Borrower and the Association.

However, due to financing arrangements and revisions in the objectives, the above objectives were achieved
through the following subcomponents:
         ·    Substations Rehabilitation, IDA funded
         ·    SCADA & National Control Centre (NCC) Back-up (NORAD funded)
         ·    Telecommunications System ((NORAD funded)
         ·    Kitwe and Luano Substations rehabilitation (NORAD funded)
         ·    Construction of New 330kV Transmission line (Kafue West ­Lusaka West) (IDA funded)
         ·    Rehabilitation of high voltage lines and towers (ZESCO)

5.2.1         Substations Rehabilitation
The scope for Substations Rehabilitation, co-financed between IDA and ZESCO, covered: rehabilitation works
in 330/220 kV substations including replacement of outdated 330 kV bulk oil circuit breakers and some air
blast circuit breakers by SF6 breakers, replacement of electromechanical protection relays by modern digital
ones, replacement of old manual control boards by modern microprocessor based control system for local
control and interface to the remote control from the National Control Centre (NCC); replacement of auxiliaries
like batteries, chargers, DC/AC boards; replacement of PCB filled capacitors at Kitwe and Luano Substations
with new non-PCB type; replacement of active and reactive meters; and construction of a new 330/132/33 kV
substation at Lusaka West to be supplied by the new 330 kV line from Kafue West.

There was additional scope for Substation rehabilitation for Kitwe & Luano Substations Rehabilitation under
the NORAD funded components and this covered i.e. replacement of outdated 330 kV circuit breakers by SF6



                                                    - 58 -

at Kitwe substation; electromechanical protection relays by modern digital relays both at Luano and Kitwe, old
manual control boards by modern microprocessor based control system for local control, interface to the
remote control from NCC, (Kitwe substation only), and auxiliaries such as batteries, chargers, DC/AC boards,
etc.

5.2.2          SCADA & National Control Centre (NCC) Back-up
The scope for SCADA & National Control Centre (NCC) Back-up, funded by NORAD, included: the setting
up of a new backup control centre at Leopards Hill substation for NCC for controlling the Zambian power
system in case of failure at the NCC; installation of Supervisory Monitoring and setting from NCC of new
protection relays to be installed under other contracts; and Supervisory Monitoring of energy meters to be
installed at Kariba North Bank Power for energy supplies to SADC countries, at Kitwe, Luano and Michelo
substations for supply to Copperbelt Energy Corporation.

5.2.3          Telecommunications System
The scope for Telecommunications System covered the supply and installation of a microwave radio system
with antenna towers at various locations in the system, for data and speech transfer as well as the functioning
of new differential line protection to be installed under contracts 5.20 and 5.21 ­ Lot 1; Supply and installation
of new PLC equipment for communication and data transfers; and Supply and installation of multiplexing and
fibre optical interface equipment at various locations. This scope was also funded by NORAD.

5.2.4          Rehabilitation of Vigh Voltage Lines and Towers
The scope for rehabilitation of high voltage lines and towers covered a) Rectification of defects on lines and
shortages of line materials due to thefts, vandalism and deterioration of towers, foundations, conductors,
insulators and line hardware fittings etc on all existing Zesco transmission lines in the voltage range 66 kV to
330 kV. b) Training of Zesco personnel in maintenance and repair of lines. c) Supply of Live Line equipment
and training of Zesco staff in live line maintenance of all lines from 66 kV to 330 kV. d) Supply of equipment
and tools for maintenance and repair of transmission lines.
This component was not undertaken as planned. A contract was signed in 4th February 2000 with
ABB(Zimbabwe) Limited, but did not become effective and was finally terminated. There were delays in
commencement of the contract, partly due to efforts by ZESCO Limited to try and get duty and VAT
exemptions from the government. The government did not and has not exempted ZESCO from paying duties
and taxes on projects funded from own sources under the PRP. In addition to this, ZESCO had also been in a
financially difficult situation at the time the contract was signed and could not open a letter of credit for the
contract.

Discussions and re-negotiations were held with the contractor on the issue of the letter of credit to no avail.
When the contractor gave a deadline for the latest commencement date as 14th June 2002, ZESCO did not
achieve this deadline and Contract lapsed.

As the way forward on this scope, ZESCO has done most of the refurbishment works on the 330 kV lines
under its continued maintenance programme. These include; replacing missing members on the towers and
replacing damaged insulated discs etc.

5.2.5          PCB Storage Facility
The was an additional scope to the transmission project which covered the construction of the PCB Storage
facility at Luano for sum of ZMK 427,242,640 and was funded by ZESCO.

All transmission projects were completed by December 2004.

5.3 The Distribution System Rehabilitation Projects

The original objectives of the distribution projects were to undertake Rehabilitation of Lusaka and in the
Copperbelt towns of Kitwe and Ndola and undertake loss reduction measure in Lusaka i.e.




                                                     - 59 -

Refurbishment of Lusaka Distribution System
Rehabilitation of the Lusaka electricity distribution system was to including:
         ·    Replacement of switchgears and power transformers in substations in the Lusaka area.
         ·    Replacement of cables and low voltage lines.
         ·    Upgrading of the supervisory control and data acquisition system in Lusaka.
         ·    Construction and reinforcement of five new substations.
         ·    Carrying out of other rehabilitation and refurbishment works agreed from time to time between
         the Borrower and the Association.

Rehabilitation of Copperbelt Distribution System
Rehabilitation of the Kitwe electricity distribution system in order to eliminate overloading, including:
         ·    replacement of switchgears;
         ·    reinforcement of low voltage network in order to eliminate overloading;
         ·    replacement of defective low voltage cables; and
         ·    carrying out of other rehabilitation and refurbishment works agreed from time to time between
         the Borrower and the Association.
         ·    Construction of a new primary substation to provide electricity to Kitwe airport and surrounding
         areas.

Rehabilitation of the Ndola Electricity Distribution System
Rehabilitation of the Ndola electricity distribution system in order to eliminate overloading, including:
         ·    replacement of switchgears and main units;
         ·    replacement of cables and low voltage lines
         ·    carrying out of other rehabilitation and refurbishment works agreed from time to time between
         the Borrower and the Association;
         ·    construction of a new substation at Mushili; and
         ·    establishment of a supervisory control and data acquisition system including a control center
         connected to the Skyways, Pamodzi, Depot Road and Mushili substations.

Loss Reduction in the Lusaka Area
Loss reduction measures were to be achieved through:
         ·    Installation of prepaid or standard meters for unmetered household consumers and replacement
         of unreliable meters.
         ·    Installation of maximum load and power factor indicators for large consumers.
         ·    Development and implementation of an education program on energy conservation aimed at
         electricity consumers in the territory of the Borrower.

5.3.1 Refurbishment of Lusaka Distribution System
The scope for Lusaka Distribution Rehabilitation was co-financed between IDA and ZESCO. The final
contract price was $15,739,257, from initial contract sum of $13,477,303. The increased cost was due to
changes in project objectives and variations to scope.

 Major variations were as a result of the overhead lines component. Most of which was a result of the bulk
supply point being relocated from Barlaston to Lusaka West, which resulted in additional works including rock
drilling to plant poles in the Lusaka West, Liverpool and Barlaston areas. Furthermore, there was change of
line routes in some areas because they had been built up since the design was done some six years before
implementation could be done. Others were at Birdcage Walk (where the building had the be extended
extensively), at Chawama (earth works, this was a completely new location due land issue problems) ,
Chongwe (Additional works for correct engineering solution as this portion was not fully engineered at tender
and contract award stage), Kafue Road (substation earthing works, earth resistivity were not known at tender
stage), UTH (Civil works and extension of switchboard) and Ngwerere (Substation not fully defined in contract
and detailed engineering done during execution)




                                                     - 60 -

The major revision to objectives was to include the building of one new (the OAU) substation to carter a
village for the OAU which was being hosted by Zambia.
Overall the project was completed 9 months behind original schedule. The reasons for this were mainly
additional scope and land acquisition and way-leave problems.

5.3.2 Refurbishment of Copperbelt Distribution System
Ndola rehabilitation: The Copperbelt Distribution System Rehabilitation project was to cover the towns of
Ndola and Kitwe. However, Ndola Distribution System rehabilitation was not carried out, because of changes
to sources of financing. Initially AFD were to finance the project who later withdrew and ZESCO wanted to
finance it through proceeds from a PPA with Eskom. Bids were issued and Negotiations held with
ETDE/NOR-ICIL being the lowest evaluated bidder, but AFD withdrew its funding.

When ZESCO changed the financing for the project, to use the proceeds from Power Purchase Agreement
(PPA) with Eskom, negotiations were held with Roshcon as per conditions of the PPA and a contract was
signed.

However, there has again been a rethink on the scope of work and financing arrangements for Ndola
Rehabilitation, which led to the contract with Roshcon being terminated. ZESCO approached some financiers
to finance this contract. No funding was secured and hence the project was not undertaken.

Kitwe Rehabilitation:
The scope for Kitwe Distribution Rehabilitation was financed by DBSA. The final contract price was an
aggregate sum of $9,431,136.59, 1,572,616.68 and ZMK53,544,572.12, from initial contract sum of
$8,969,295.86, 1,520,128.08 and ZMK52,793,292.72. The increased cost was due to changes in project
objectives and variations to scope. The completed rehabilitation and reinforcement works have greatly
improved security of supply in Kitwe. Especially with the construction of the two new 66kV substations of
Luangwa and Scaw, the rehabilitation of Chambeshi and Mwambashi Substations and the installation of 150n
new 11kV ring main units.

5.3.3         Upgrading Of the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) System and
Establishment of a SCADA System Including a Control Center in Lusaka and Kitwe.
The upgrading of the supervisory control and data acquisition system in Lusaka and the establishment of a
supervisory control and data acquisition system including a control center in Kitwe were financed by NDF.
This project consisted installation of complete SCADA systems for the Lusaka and Kitwe distribution
networks;

In Lusaka: The scope covered setting up a Regional Control Centre complete with all workstations, furniture,
projector, printer and plotter, installation of a radio communication system for the SCADA, installation of
Remote Terminal units (RTU) and other related equipment. It also covered installation of a Distribution
Management System; OPERA to manage the 11kV network. A total of fifty five substations have been covered
in Lusaka.

In Kitwe: The project covered setting up a Regional Control centre complete with all work stations, furniture,
projector, printer and plotter, installation of a radio communication system for the SCADA, installation of
RTUs and other related equipment. Include also was the installation of a Distribution Management System;
OPERA. A total of fourteen substations have been covered in Kitwe. The initial Contract sum was               
4,800,000 and the final cost of the project was at Completion was 5,891,251.

There was a 9 months delay in completion due to additional scope and relocation of SCADA from Ndola to
Kitwe. Furthermore, the Kitwe SCADA works could only be done fully upon completion of rehabilitation work
for the Kitwe distribution system, which had a longer lead-time.




                                                    - 61 -

  5.3.4         Loss Reduction in the Lusaka Area
  The original objectives in the Loss reduction measures were to be achieved through:
      ·         Installation of prepaid or standard meters for unmetered household consumers and replacement
      of unreliable meters.
      ·         Installation of maximum load and power factor indicators for large consumers.
      ·         Development and implementation of an education program on energy conservation aimed at
      electricity consumers in the territory of the Borrower.

  This was later modified and it was decided that the objectives be achieved through a Customer Service
  Management Project. The project aimed at Improving ZESCO's commercial performance in Lusaka West,
  using an independent operator, through improvement of the customer delivery system, improving customer
  service in line with customer expectations and transferring the experience of Lusaka West to the other three
  regions of Lusaka. However, the Independent Operator did not take over Lusaka West. The Operator refused
  to take over the `running' of the Lusaka West Region due to some problems associated with the Billing (CIS)
  System at the end of the diagnostic phase. Hence the objectives further changed and were to be achieved
  through:
      ·         To improve organisation for commercial operations with a focus on large customers
      ·         Improving organisation for technical operations with particular attention on interfaces with other
      ZESCO's technical department.
      ·         Setting up workable standards and regulation for customer connections and metering.
      ·         Producing efficient procedures for customer data base management, metering, billing and debt
      recovery
      ·         Supply and installation of the 1000 pre-payment as a pilot scheme.

The project was carried with financing from a French Francs (FrF) 20 million AFD grant. The contract signed
was for FrF16,184,687. This was subsequently reduced to FrF 13.5 million after the contractor/consultant
declined to take-over the Lusaka West region. The balance of the money was used by ZESCO to procure
equipment.

5.4    ZESCO Institutional Strengthening

  The original objectives under ZESCO institutional strengthening were through inter alia::
  a)  the institutional capacity building of ZESCO to be achieved through;

  ·    development of new company standards, implementing a corporate safety platform and introducing a
  mechanism to enhance job security thereby encouraging creativity, innovation, accountability and risk taking
  by the staff.
  ·    development and implementation of a human resources planning strategy including preparation of job
  descriptions, staff recruitment and assignment plans and performance appraisal standards;
  ·    strengthening ZESCO's financial management capabilities through the provision of staff training and
  technical advisory services;
  ·    outsourcing of non-core ZESCO activities, including construction and transportation;
  ·    implementation of a project management training and core skill training program including provision of
  staff training in dam safety monitoring;
  ·    implementation of a staff health awareness program and adoption of a life insurance scheme; and
  ·    carrying out a feasibility study to enhance the hydropower engineering capability of ZESCO.
  b) Strengthening the capacity of ZESCO's Environmental and Social Affairs Unit; to monitor the
  environmental and social impact of the Project and of ZESCO's operations through the provision of staff
  training and technical advisory services.

  c)  Upgrading of a training center in Ndola, including construction of training buildings, acquisition of
  equipment and setting up a Technical Library.

  These objectives were carried out under the following subcomponents:



                                                       - 62 -

5.4.1          Institutional Capacity Building of ZESCO
The programmes under this component included the following activities:
i)   Distribution Job Analysis and Work Organization in Power Distribution: This commenced on 21 January
2002 and concluded in August 2003. The programme included study visits and seminars, using Lusaka
Division as a Pilot study area.
ii) Distribution Network Planning and operation: This commenced on 18th February 2002 and ran for four
weeks at Kafue Gorge Regional Training Centre. A combined total of 250 Engineers, Technologists and
Technicians attended the training programme. All activities under this programme were concluded by August
2002.
iii) The Top Management training Course; the programme was intended to initiate activities in the top
management in parallel with the other capacity building programmes and Commercialisation programme by
GRZ. The training gave management a `Management Working Tool' for finding and improving management
behaviour. It also initiated a process where management selected, evaluated and prioritized as set of
management parameters where by concentrating on `Quick Wins'.
iv) Power Acquisition and bulk Power Trading & Internal Power Purchasing.
v) Work Safety, and
vi) Occupational Health Training

5.4.2          Outsourcing of Non-Core Activities

Under this subcomponent, several activities were identified as no-core and were to be outsourced. Among other
non-core activities the following were identified as priority areas for outsourcing:
     (i)       Construction unit and Fabrication workshop to be outsourced as a combined unit
     (ii)      Canteen/Food Services
     (iii)     Clinics
     (iv)      Cleaning Services
     (v)       Workshops (Vehicle maintenance)
     (vi)      Security Guards/Safety services
     (vii)     Property maintenance
     (viii)    Information Technology Services
     (ix)      Ndola Training Centre
     (x)       Transport Services

A consultant was engaged to establish the feasibility and timeline for outsourcing the above 10 business units;
Creation of an independent set of accounts for each of the units including valuation of their asset; and to assist
ZESCO to implement the outsourcing and divestiture. The contract price was for a sum of USD 762,535.
ZESCO funded the contract. The contract run from September 2000 to September 2002 and was terminated
due to change in management's position over the identified units and GRZ position on ZESCO where
concessioning was being considered. However, some of the business units in the terms of reference stopped
functioning or had been outsourced as a result of ZESCO management's administrative decision.

5.4.3          Ndola Training Centre Rehabilitation
The objective was to upgrade the training center in Ndola, including construction of training buildings,
acquisition of equipment and setting up a Technical Library. A Consultant for Engineering Design and
Construction Supervision was for a sum of USD 182,840. IDA was funding the contract.
However, in the course on project design, ZESCO management decided to re-allocate the training centre to
new site because of pressure from the personnel who were going to be `evicted' from the existing site. ZESCO
acquired land for a new site. However, the project site did not change. Funding for the physical works was to
be from ZESCO own resources. It was proposed that only the following buildings be built at the current ZTC
site after scaling down on the original scope:
     ·         Administration Block



                                                   - 63 -

    ·         Computer lab, Library, Reprographics
    ·         Electronics Laboratory
    ·         Classrooms (2)
    ·         Canteen
    ·         Refurbish Electrical Workshop, including the purchase of equipment.
However, the project was suspended in 2004, pending review of financing options.

5.4.4         Training Specialist
In complementing the upgrading of the Ndola training school, a consultant was engage to          upgrade the
Training Center staff, development of curriculum based on the needs of the electricity industry, purchase of
appropriate training equipment/tools, and stocking the library with updated study materials. Specifically, the
training specialist was to provide expert advice in the following areas:
    (i)       Provide comments and recommendations on design drawings to ensure that the buildings are
    suitable for educational purposes;
    (ii)      Provide comments and recommendations on equipment/tools and library books to ensure that
    they conform to required standards;
    (iii)     Procurement of training materials and books;
    (iv)      Supervision and training of training center staff, and prepare work -plans; and
    (v)       Update curriculum.

The Contract was for a sum of USD 470,636. All activities were done except those relating to training of staff
and procurement. The contract ended in March 2003.

5.4.5         Strengthening of the Environmental and Social Affairs Unit
The Contract commenced in March 1998 and came to an end September 2000. Sida funded this contract. The
project achieved its goal and the ESU has been well integrated into ZESCO, while continuing to implement
the different environmental components on the Project.
The Unit has since achieved the following:
    i)        Undertaken, and continues to undertake project briefs, including environmental impact
    assessment studies for all in-house projects for ZESCO, e.g., rural electrification, mini-hydro power
    stations, Power Rehabilitation Project, etc.
    ii)       Developed and environmental management system for ZESCO to ensure that all ZESCO
    departments undertake their operations or activities in a manner that preserves and enhances the
    environment.
    iii)      Established liaison and collaboration with other organisations in environmental management in
    the country by sitting on most environmental committees and at the same time fostering environmental
    concerns of ZESCO.
    iv)       Contributed to the development, understanding and formulation of environmental legislation
    regarding the Hazardous Waste Management Regulations, Statutory Instrument No. 125 of 2001.
    v)        Improved environmental awareness among ZESCO staff.
    vi)       In collaboration with the Environmental Council of Zambia, using funding from the Canadian
    International Development Agency, CIDA conducted a country wide inventory of all equipment with
    dielectric fluids and undertook random sampling and analysis to test PCBs.

5.4.6         Project Management Expert
The Contract was signed for a sum of USD 373,630 and commenced services in May 1999 and ended in
November 2002. As part of the World Bank's requirement on the PRP which was considered a complex
project, a consultant was engaged to assist the PIU Project management, while acting as advisor to the Project
Director. However, the value of these services were difficult to quantify.




                                                    - 64 -

5.4.7        Skills Training
Under this program, the PIU and other personnel from the mainstream ZESCO have been trained in the World
Bank procurement guidelines for Works and Equipment Supply and Installation. This has helped greatly in
understanding, explaining and guiding the procurement process to internal (ZESCO ­ Project Steering
Committee) decision makers.

6.  Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

6.1 Internal Factors

    ·        Delay in establishing the Project Management Unit for GTDP, led to a loss of about one year in
    implementation time.
    ·        Frequent change of contractors' site staff resulted in reduced rate of work progress and poor
    workmanship. For example, premature failure of a bearing on Unit 6 and winding installation failure of
    Unit 4 stator at Kafue Gorge Power Station.
    ·        The Kafue Gorge and Kariba north Rehabilitation Project have had several changes to the scope
    and new contracts introduced, which entailed renegotiation and repackaging. Specifically, at Kafue Gorge
    Power Station, the multiple contracts awarded to different contractors on equipment on the same circuit
    had made implementation very complicated. The several contractors' contracts for the works on the same
    machines, has resulted into reorganising, shut downs of the machines and thereby some components are
    delayed in order to harmonise with other components to minimise same plant being shut down frequently.
    This is to allow alignment of implementation schedules for different contracts so that only two (2)
    machines are shut down at any particular time. The alignment of the various contracts was thus
    unavoidable and consequently has made the project even more costly and the implementation schedule
    longer.
    ·        Working on live/operating plant as outages could sometimes not be given when needed
    ·        The procurement and scope definition on some contracts were not properly and thoroughly done
    and this resulted in scope variation and hence extension of the project implementation period.
    ·        Delays in credit disbursement effectiveness and protracted procurement processes of most
    contracts in generation. When rehabilitation started and the machines (Generators and Turbines)
    dismantled, a significant difference in the state of machines was found between what was stated in the
    tender documents and during implementation, leading to variations to scope of works and hence extension
    to implementation schedule and increased project costs.
    ·        High staff turnover in the Project Implementation Unit, especially ZESCO's project managers.

6.2 External Factors

    ·        Changes of task team leaders affected procurement processes such as delays in issuance of "No
    Objection". e.g. The project has had six World Bank Task team leaders and Three DBSA Task team l
    eaders. Generally, there seemed to be no handovers from one Task Team Leader to the other.
    ·        Lack of flexibility in procurement guidelines.
    ·        Delays in credits/loans disbursement effectiveness.
    ·        Changes in world markets and prices resulted in an upward price adjustment on materials and
    labour and this had a negative effect on the budget
    ·        The financiers' reluctance to finance certain scope and/or scope changes e.g. World Bank's;
    reprofiling of turbines and recoring and rewinding works (up-rating) at Kafue Gorge.
    ·        The government did not, and has not exempted ZESCO from paying duties and taxes on projects
    funded from own sources under the PRP and therefore required ZESCO to seek additional funding.
    ·        Some project components (GTDP) lacked detailed design studies which led to planning being
    done during the implementation phase. While it was acknowledged that the INESOR report provided a
    general scoping framework, the nature of most of the works required scope definition, planning,
    designing, sensitisation and then finally implementation. The implementation plan was more suited for a
    project that has already been planned and designed. For instance, while the DBSA loan became effective
    in November 2001, the estimated cost of implementing the Bottom road was only known in 2003 when the



                                                  - 65 -

    project was expected to close.
    ·         The allocation of funds to some project components was not based on any quantified budget (no
    detailed scope definition) leading to significant underestimates in most cases, e.g. Gwembe Tonga and
    Kafue Gorge where diagnostic studies were not done.
    ·         Anticipated community contribution of 25% of project cost on the Gwembe Tonga Development
    Project in terms of labour and provision of locally available materials which was never achieved.

7.   Performances

7.1 Bank's Performance

    ·         The Bank generally worked closely with the Borrower and provided timely guidance and advice.
    ·         The Bank dealt with threats proactively. On the whole, the Bank made itself available to both the
    Borrower and ZESCO.
    ·         Apparent lack of proper handovers between Task Team Leaders.
    ·         The Bank's direct contact with contractors should be discouraged. For example during project
    implementation, some contractors were promised price escalation on their Fixed Sum contracts but later
    did not approve the escalation costs on Gwembe Tonga. This was mainly due to increases in fuel prices.
    ·         The Bank's rigid procurement guidelines especially in operating generating plants where
    contractors are not liable for consequential losses or damages such as importation of power which is quite
    costly. ZESCO suffered greatly from contractor's poor performance resulting from premature failure of
    plant.
    ·         Due to the Bank's rigidity in increasing the funding in the Credit Agreements, especially on
    rehabilitation projects on operating plant, it would be prudent that Bank increases it un-allocated portion
    in the Credit Agreements to cater for scope variations and exchange rates movements. The World Bank
    (IDA) was the only financier on the Project that did not show its appreciation of these facts through
    additional funding.

Despite these apparent shortcomings, the Bank's overall performance can be rated as satisfactory.

7.2. Borrower's Performance (GRZ)

The project received a lot of support and goodwill from the Borrower hence the project reaching completion.
Overall, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory except for the following:
    ·         Although the Borrower was very conscious of the domestic macro-economic environment in
    which the project operated, the Credit (CR.3042) obtained contained conditionalities that could not easily
    be fulfilled within the agreed period thereby delaying credit effectiveness. This obviously meant that no
    contracts could be entered into before the effective date.
    ·         Under Gwembe Tonga Project, the agricultural scopes though implemented, it was difficult to
    measure the extent of success because they were largely undertaken at a time when successive droughts
    severely affected agricultural production in the Gwembe Valley. This difficulty was compounded by a
    general lack of quantitative indicators of success, which means that success could only be measured using
    subjective qualitative indicators of beneficiary communities.
    ·         At the Ministry of Finance and National Planning (The Borrower), the desks dealing with
    Financiers affairs did not communicate changes of authorised signatories leading to some delays in
    payment of invoices. ZESCO had to pay interest claims for delayed payment. On a few occasions
    submissions were misplaced and the same had to be re-submitted thereby delaying the payment process.
    ·         Government did not meet its obligation of financing the full electrification component of
    Gwembe-Tonga Project. Only 65% of it total commitment was disbursed.
    ·         Payment of 10% costs for the local portion on contracts had to be met by ZESCO on behalf of
    Government.
    ·         The Project Account held at the MEWD did not operate effectively to enhance project operations.
    A lot of payments were delayed because of non responsiveness of staff managing this account
    ·         The Borrower dealt with progress threats timely, particularly in the ever changing political and



                                                    - 66 -

    economic environment.
    ·         The construction of the Bottom Road was not done and electrification of the lakeshore was not
    fully implemented because of inadequate funds.

7.3 Implementing Agent's (ZESCO) Performance

    ·         ZESCO counterpart financing was agreed from the start of the Project. However payments for
    ZESCO's portions were delayed due to financial constraints. In one instance the delays in making initial
    payments contributed to a late start of project components and even in some cases led to cancellation of
    contracts e.g. transmission contract for the lines maintenance and Ndola Distribution Rehabilitation,
    scaling off of some scope at Victoria Falls Power Station Rehabilitation, among others.
    ·         Despite implementation commencing towards the end of the initially agreed project period of
    1998 to 2002, the Implementing Agent succeeded in managing the contracts within the extended period of
    three (03) years and successfully completed all the IDA funded components.
    ·         The Implementing Agent managed the financing gap that arose from exchange loses using its
    own resources without seeking revision of the IDA financing agreement.
    ·         The Gwembe-Tonga Project was able to accomplish what it did due to the enormous support
    rendered by ZESCO; chief among the rest is secondment of staff to the project at ZESCO's cost and
    funding all administrative costs of managing the project. Including bridging finance for 10% local cost
    contributions on behalf of GRZ.
    ·         Capacity building programme was focused and yielded significant results in the PIU and ZESCO
    e.g. the construction supervision of Roma substation where an outdoor 33kV switchgear was installed to
    replace the problematic 33kV switch board and the construction Luano-Kansanshi 330kV transmission
    line all done.
    ·         The PIU dealt with progress threats efficiently. e.g. on the failed procurement of a water expert;
    as soon as the project team noted the loss of time resulting from the failed procurement process, a proposal
    for smaller turnkey works was proposed to the IDA who responded positively. This resulted in the
    successful implementation of Lusitu Water Works and the three dams.

8   Lessons Learned

The training of staff on Procurement and Financing was done during the implementation of the project. This
in a way disadvantaged the client in terms of project handling. Before project of this nature and size is
undertaken, the client needs to have a well trained team whose focus is on the project from inception to
completion stage.
    ·         Premature failure of Unit 6 just after rehabilitation resulted in loss of production. The Contractor
    could not be held responsible for the failure due to the conditions outlined in the contract, ZESCO suffered
    heavily in terms of power imports i.e. the clause relating penalties for loss of production as a result of the
    contractors fault was removed from the contract on the insistence of the financiers. In order to meet the
    demand, the company had to heavily subsidise the imports and this has adversely affected the financial
    position of the company. If Contractors are held responsible and accountable for generation losses during
    implementation of contracts, such occurrences can be avoided or minimised in future.
    ·         There should be proper coordination between the Borrower and Implementing Agent in agreeing
    to the credit effectiveness conditions to avoid implementation delays, e.g. disposal of ZCCM assets which
    affected commencement of physical works (a conditionality which did not appear in the Development
    Credit Agreement, DCA).
    ·         Project financiers should harmonize their disbursement conditions to avoid cases of
    cross-referencing conditionalities among themselves which is unfair to the Borrower, e.g. where all
    financiers first want other financiers to first declare credit/loan effectiveness before they could do so.
    ·         In order to avoid huge variances in cost, thorough development of scopes at detailed
    design/feasibility stage is vital. Further, involvement of all key stakeholders such operations staff in scope
    definition is cardinal. Lastly, the duration between scope definition and implementation should be
    minimal to avoid huge discrepancies between the tendered scope and actual at implementation.
    ·         It should be a policy that awarding of multiple Contracts on equipment on the same circuit



                                                     - 67 -

should not be allowed to avoid delays /cost overruns. The experience at Kafue Gorge Power Station, where
there are several contractors' contracts for the works on the same machines, has resulted into reorganising
shut downs of the machines and thereby some components are delayed in order to harmonise with other
components to minimise same plant being shut down frequently. This is to allow alignment of
implementation schedules for different contracts so that only two (2) machines are shut down at any
particular time.
·        If possible, project management staff (PIU and TTL) should not be changed midway ­ loss of
corporate memory.
·        Sufficient time should be provided for scoping, planning, designing and implementation
methodologies of various works on a project including the procurement processes prior to implementation
e.g. Gwembe Tonga Development Project, a multi-sectoral integrated social project whose processes had
to be undertaken during the implementation phase thereby affecting the pace at which the entire project
was implemented. This also meant that the project cost estimates at inception were not based on any
quantifiable basis.
·        The Gwembe Valley is characterized by very poor road and communications infrastructure and
during the rainy season, the area is subject to flash flooding. This constraint, especially on the delivery of
the necessary materials to the construction sites, does not appear to have been taken into consideration
when planning the project. Ultimately, such logistical challenges affected the speed with which some
scopes were implemented.
·        Community participation is generally perceived positively as a necessary precondition for project
success and sustainability. The Gwembe Tonga project by its very social nature, was conceptualized on
this premise. However, during implementation phase, it became                obvious that eliciting peoples
participation in the project was not an easy task mainly because of the following factors:
·        The project beneficiaries tended to view the World Bank as an integral part of the colonial
government, which was responsible for their displacement and consequent destitution. As such, project
funding was and is still perceived as compensation for the historical wrongs done to them. This perception
to some degree affected local participation in project activities.
·        The project area is characterized by very high poverty levels. These have a bearing on the type
and quality of participation by the local people. Because of poverty people may have been preoccupied
with their own day to day survival to meaningfully devote their time and efforts to project activities which
did not generally lead to the immediate alleviation of their poverty status. A well focused situation
analysis should have been done prior to project implementation in order to determine the best way of
involving the local people in the project and the level of their contribution.
·        There seem to be conflict between ownership of evaluation reports done by consultants on behalf
of the Borrower. The Bank seemed to have more respect for consultant's views than the Borrower's yet the
consultant is supposed to be a resource of the Borrower. Further it sometimes turned out that the
consultant's advices were not right and that the Borrower's position was economical and right. However,
the consultant was never made liable for the `lost time' or increased costs arising from time delays and
wrong advice.
·        There should be a policy or legislation to exempt developmental projects of this nature from
taxes.
·        Projects of a mitigation nature, the way Gwembe-Tonga has been, are highly sensitive to the
affected communities and their planning and implementation should involve stake holders at all stages.
·        Financing of projects which directly impacts on the lives of people need to be adequately funded
as per budget so that no works started are left uncompleted in the midst of communities as this brings
about loss of confidence from the beneficiaries and great criticism to the project.
·        Holding of the Project Special Account should be left with the Implementing Agent other than
the Borrower who is not directly involved in the day today management of the project. A case in point is
the Gwembe Tonga project.
·        Participation in the planning and implementation of a project offers a unique challenge and the
experiences gained are immeasurable.




                                                - 68 -

9   Sustainability of PRP Infrastructure

As part of implementation programme, efforts were made to ensure the personnel to operate and maintain
equipment were involved in various aspects of the project and training in operation and maintenance was
given on site training. Personnel were attached as counterpart to contractors and consultants.

Tailored training in specific equipment was conducted on site and at manufacture's factories. There is a need
to continually invest in maintenance of the equipment and upgrades. For IT based equipment such as generator
control systems, transmission control systems, telecoms, etc maintenance contracts should be established with
the suppliers as soon as the equipment is out of warranty.

There is also a strong need to continually invest in training of personnel at all levels. This training could be
equipment training, design or management training depending on the level of staff but it is necessary.

Continuance and periodic maintenance to be enforced to avoid rehabilitation works on a large scale as case for
the Power Rehabilitation Project.




                                                   - 69 -

Additional Annex 11. MAP



     ZAMBIAN POWER SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                         KAPUTA
                                                                                                                                                              MPULUNGU

                                                                                                                                                                                MBALA
                                                                                                                                                          LUNZUA

                                                                                                                             KALUNGWISHI
                                                                                   DRC                  KASHIKISHI                          MPOROKOSO


                                                                                                                                           KALUNGWISHI RIVER   CHISHIMBA FALLS



                                                                                                        MAMBILIMA                                                            KASAMA

                                                                                                                       MUSONDA FALLS               LUWINGU


                                                                                                                                                                       CHAMBESHI RIVER

                                                                                                           MANSA

                                                 West Lunga                                 MICHELO                        SAMFYA
                                                 River at Mwinilunga
                                                 (1.2MW)                                                              MOMBUTUTA
                                                                                                             LUAPULA RIVER
      ANGOLA                                            LUMWANA
                                                                       SOLWEZI          LUANO              KANSUSWA                                                           MPIKA


                       Chavuma Falls                                                     KITWE                                                                        LUSIWASI

                       (1.2MW)                        KabompoRiver at                                                                                PENSULO
                                                                                                                                       SERENJE
                                                      Kabompo-Manyinga Bridge
                                                     (0.10MW)                              MAPOSA
                                Kabompo River at
                                ChakataFalls                        Lufubu River at                                                                                             MFUE
                                (1.2MW)                             Kasempa Bridge                                  MKUSHI
                                                                    (0.23MW)
                                                                                           MPONGWE
                       ZAMBEZI

                                                                                                    KAPIRI
                                                                                                                                                                                MSORO
                                                                                                                                 LUNSEMFWA
                                                                                                         KABWE
                                                           KA                                                                                                                       AZELE
                       LUKULU                              FU
            KALABO                                         E             MUMBWA                                              MULUNGUSHI                     PETAUKE
                                                           RI
                                            KAOMA                                       LUSAKA WEST
                                                           VE
                         MONGU                                                                                      LEOPARDS HILL

                                                                                                                   KAFUE
                    ZA                                                                        KAFUE TOWN           LOWER                                LUANGWA
                    MB                                                   KAFUE WEST                                              CHIRUNDU
                    EZ
                                                       ITEZHI - TEZHI                               KAFUE
                    I
                                                                                                    GORGE
                    RI        SENANGA
                    VE                                                       MAZABUKA                                                                                 KEY
                                                                                                 KARIBA NORTH

                                                                                                                                                                               330 kV
                                                     (120MW)                                                               KARIBA SOUTH
                                                                                              LAKE KARIBA
                                                                                  MUZUMA                                                                                       220 kV

                                                                                                                                                                               132 kV

                                                                                                                                                                                  88 kV
 22o East                         SESHEKE
                                                         VICTORIA                                                                                                                 66 kV
                                                         FALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                POWER STAT
                                    KATIMA
                                    MULILO                                                  18o                                                                                 PROPOSED PO
              NAMIBIA                                                                                           ZIMBABWE                                                      SUBSTATIONS
                                                     BOTSWANA                                                                                                                   PROPOSED SU

                                                                                                                                                                               DIESEL STATI




                                                                   - 70 -

- 71 -

