Report No. PID1090
Project Name                     Zambia-Power Rehabilitation Project (@+)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Electric Power & Other Energy Adjustment
Project ID                       ZMPA35076
Implementing Agencies            Zambia Electricity Supply
Corporation Limited (ZESCO)
P.O Box 33304, LUSAKA 10101, ZAMBIA
Contact Managing Director
Tel: 260-1-228084
Fax: 260-1-222753
Ministry of Energy and Water
Development (MEWD)
P.O Box 50296, LUSAKA, ZAMBIA
Contact Permanent Secretary
Tel: 260-1-225074
Fax: 260-1-254589
Date this PID Revised            October 8, 1997
Appraisal Date                   July 1997
Projected Board Date             November 1997
Background
Landlocked Zambia's 8 million people had a per capita income of
about US $370 in 1995. Copper mining industry dominates the economy
and accounts for 65% of domestic electricity consumption. Zambia's
considerable indigenous energy resources (biomass/charcoal, coal
and hydropower) satisfy 889 of the country's total energy needs
with imported petroleum accounting for the remaining 12%. Most of
the population depend on wood and charcoal for their energy needs -
- only 10 percent have access to electricity. National wood
resources are sufficient to meet overall demand, but agricultural
land clearing and charcoal production to supply the heavily
urbanized population have created pockets of scarcity.
The power system has a nominal surplus generating and transmission
capacity and presently exports about 150 MW to neighboring
Zimbabwe. Investment in subtransmission and distribution, however,
has failed to keep up with demand and the system has suffered from
inadequate maintenance and a scarcity of skilled manpower. A series
of breakdowns and supply problems have reduced the reliability of
supply and curbed service expansion thus seriously constraining
economic growth.
A number of Studies commissioned during project preparation
provided the basis for the dialogue on the details of the policy
reform and project components. These included Studies in demand
forecasting and least-cost system development; generation,



transmission and distribution rehabilitation; environment and
safety; sector restructuring; tariffs; loss reduction and demand
side management; manpower development and capacity building;
accounting and financial management; Zambia-Zaire Interconnection;
and the Gwembe-Tonga Study.
Project Objectives
The project supports the Government's policy, institutional and
regulatory reforms in the power sector. These include: (i) the
optimal long-term development through the establishment of an
enabling institutional and regulatory environment for private
sector participation in electricity supply; (ii) the short-term
commercialization of the national power utility, ZESCO, through
enhanced resource mobilization, corporate autonomy and management
accountability; (iii) the least-cost development to meet demand,
emphasizing efficiency improvements, rehabilitation, efficiency
pricing and demand side management; and (iv) the improving of
supply reliability and security through strengthening the
interconnection with Zaire
Project Description
The proposed project consists of five components: (i) Sector Reform
and Restructuring consisting of consultancy services and studies to
assist the Government to implement sector reforms (including the
institutionalization of Energy Regulatory Board) and to
commercialize ZESCO; (ii) Institutional Support for capacity
building, technical assistance and studies to assist ZESCO to
implement the project, undertake planning studies, and improve its
institutional efficiency; (iii) Efficiency Improvement to procure
and install equipment, build local capacity and undertake studies
to expedite loss reduction and demand side management/fuel
substitution; (iv) Power Rehabilitation to rehabilitate the Kariba,
Kafue Gorge and Victoria Falls hydropower stations, ZESCO's
transmission system and the distribution system in Lusaka and the
major Copperbelt towns. This includes the development of an action
plan to assist the rural based Gwembe-Tonga affected by the Kariba
Project ; and (v) Strengthening the Interconnection link between
Zaire and Zambia.
Project Cost and Financing
The total cost of the project is estimated at US$198.37 million,
excluding taxes, duties and IDC, of which about 85t is foreign
exchange. IDA financing is expected to be about US$75 million. The
implementing agencies would finance the local currency component.
EIB, NORAD, Nordic Development Fund, SIDA, FINIDA, the Government
of France, DBSA have indicated their interest in co-financing for
the project.
Environmental Aspects
The environmental category is B. Overall, the project will have a
favorable impact on the environment, primarily by facilitating the
- 2-



upgrading of the existing hydroelectricity plants thus contributing
to the substitution of hydro power for petroleum fuels. It does not
include investment in new large-scale power generation,
transmission, or distribution facilities.
Implementation
The Ministry of Energy and Water Development (MEWD) will implement
the components related to the power sector reform program and
demand side management/fuel substitution. A locally based NGO is
involved in the preparation of the Gwembe-Tonga Study; its
involvement in the implementation of the study recommendations is
being explored. All other components will be implemented by ZESCO.
Benefits and Risks
The major benefits will be improved reliability of power supply to
the mining, agricultural and industrial sectors, the performance of
which will be critical for economic recovery, and some substitution
of low cost hydro power for more expensive and imported fuels. The
major risks are that: (i) because of political reasons ZESCO will
not be allowed to build on the bold actions taken/planned to raise
tariffs, salaries and employee productivity to achieve and sustain
the needed improvements in operations and financial performance;
and (ii) the benefits of expanded ZESCO staff training will be
partially lost through movement of skilled manpower to the private
sector. These risks would be mitigated by suitable measures which
would result in ZESCO achieving complete autonomy in its
operations, particularly in the areas of tariffs and employee
salaries in exchange for ZESCO management being held fully
responsible and accountable for the utility's agreed performance
targets and results.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending October 10, 1997.
- 3 -



Annex
Environment
The proposed Project is category B for environmental issues. A
Sectoral Environmental Scoping study for Zambia's power sector,
including the proposed Project, was completed in 1995. The major
recommendations of the Study were to: a) establish an Environmental
and Social Affairs Unit (ESU) in ZESCO; b) develop a rehabilitation
plan for the Kariba Gwembe-Tonga ; c) develop a waste management
plan, including for PCBs; d) undertake sub-basin-wide environmental
and social assessments for upcoming hydropower projects; and e)
encourage commitment to the ESU by ZESCO's Board and senior
management. These recommendations will be addressed under the
proposed project.
The major environmental issue identified in project preparation was
the treatment of wastes and harmful substances in some of the
existing hydropower plants and transmission lines. An assessment of
waste was included in each of the separate rehabilitation
components of the Project and their management will be addressed
during implementation. A study financed by CIDA will develop a
comprehensive program for management/disposal of PCBs, and will be
coordinated with the Environmental Council of Zambia (ECZ) and
ZESCO. ZESCO has agreed to implement the study's recommendations.
Strengthening the recently formed ESU in ZESCO, which is
responsible for planning and implementation of environmental and
socio-economic programs associated with ZESCO projects, is a key
component in the Project. In addition, the ESU will initiate a
monitoring and audit program, with monthly reporting requirements.
The program will track project progress in relation to the
implementation of environmental and socio-economic activities.
Victoria Falls Hydro Station Rehabilitation Environmental
Assessment (EA). The EA on Victoria Falls, a World Heritage site
due to its unique geology, was completed in March 1997 in
conjunction with the preparation of the rehabilitation study of the
Victoria Falls hydro station. The EA found no additional impacts
associated with the Project. However, the EA found that operation
of the station has had negative impacts, including land
degradation, PCB contamination, water management issues and
associated degeneration of tourism and aesthetic loss. To address
these issues, the proposed Project includes environmental component
for Victoria Falls which will enhance the ecology and aesthetic
value of the site. Zambia is a riparian on the Zambezi river. While
the proposed Victoria Falls Rehabilitation component does not alter
the flow regime of the Zambezi and does not require notification,
GRZ has agreed to notify the Government of Zimbabwe at the request
of EIB.
-4-



