Document of
FILE COPY                          The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1905-DO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
August 31, 1976
This document has a restricted ditribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Dominican Peso (RD$)
us$ 1.00      = RD$ 1.00
Fiscal Yaar
January 1 - December 31
Abbreviations
ADPBF        Asociacion Dominicana Pro-Bienestar de la Familia
(Dominican Association for Family Welfare)
CEA          Consejo Estatal del Azucar
(State Sugar Council)
CONAPOFA     Consejo Nacional de Poblacion y Familia
(National Council for Family Planning)
ENE          Escuela Nacional de Enfermeria
(National Nursing School)
IDSS         Instituto Dominicano de Seguros Sociales
(Dominican Social Security Institute)
ODC          Oficina de Desarrollo de la Comunidad
(Office of Community Development)
PAHO         Pan American Health Organization
SESPAS       Secretaria de Estado de Salud Publica y Asistencia Social
(Secretariat of State of Public Health and Social Assistance)
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
UNFPA        United Nations Fund for Population Activities
USAID        United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Definitions
Birth Rate                          Annual births per 1,000 population.
Death Rate                          Annual deaths per 1,000 population.
Total Fertility Rate                It is interpreted as births per woman
of child bearing age.
Rate of Natural Increase            Difference between the crude birth
and death rates.
Dependency Ratio                    Persons of "dependent" ages (those under
15 years of age and age 65 and over) per
person of "working ages" (15-64).
Graduate Nurse                      Nurses who have completed 3 or 4 years
of nursing education after completion of
secondary school.
Technical Nurse                     A new category of nursing personnel (who
will graduate from secondary schools);
the course will consist of two years of
nursing training after four years of
secondary studies.
Nursing Auxiliary                   Health worker with 6-9 months of nursing
training after completion of the eight
years of education.
Practical Nurse                     Nurses without formal training.
Rural Clinics                       Health facilities located in a rural area
covering an estimated population of 2,500 -
3,000 staffed by one or two nursing
auxiliaries and/or practical nurses and
visited by a physician once a week.
Health Sub-Centers                  Health facilities with both outpatient and
inpatient services; they have 10 to 30
beds mainly for deliveries and pediatric
cases.
Health Centers                      Health facilities located in provincial
capitals, providing mainly outpatient
services.
Thb document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Dominican Republic for the equivalent of US$5.0 million to help finance
a Population and Family Health Project. The loan would be made on standard
Third Window terms of 25 years, including 7 years of grace, with interest at
4.9 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited the Dominican Republic in August/September
1974. Its report, "Updating Report on the Economy of the Dominican Republic"
(611-DO), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 18, 1975.
Relevant social and economic data are presented in Annex I.
3.        In 1970-74, the Dominican economy expanded rapidly, stimulated by
large inflows of private capital into key sectors such as mining, agriculture,
and manufacturing, by rapid export growth and by a dynamic public investment
program. The rate of real GDP growth averaged almost 11 percent.
4.        Mining, industry (including sugar refining), construction, and services
accounted for the bulk of output growth. Industrial incentive laws, although
offering a high degree of protection and encouraging capital-intensive activi-
ties, did stimulate private investment in manufacturing, mostly in import sub-
stitution industries. Construction activity was stimulated by the high level
of public investment outlays for infrastructure and by private residential
construction. Much of the increase in mining output came from the Falconbridge
ferronickel plant (partly financed by Loan 646-DO), which started production in
1972. Urban services and tourism also expanded rapidly. The total volume of
agricultural production increased at a slower rate, as increases in export crops
were partly offset by slow growth in food crops.
5.        Responding to political stability and a favorable business climate,
gross investment increased from 19 percent to 25 percent of GDP between 1970
and 1974, an annual increase of nearly 20 percent in real terms. Much of the
investment was financed out of internal savings. Domestic savings increased
from just under 12 percent of GDP in 1970 to about 18 percent of GDP in 1974.
Prudent fiscal policies contributed to the growth of savings. Consolidated
public sector savings financed over three-fourths of public capital expendi-
tures and contributed over one-half of total gross domestic savings in 1970-74.
However, the restraint on current expenditure involved some cost in the neglect



of needed public services. The ratio of taxes to GNP is in excess of 16
percent, reflecting a substantial public resource mobilization effort.
6.        Exports have been the most dynamic element in the economy.     Merchand-
ise exports increased from US$213 million in 1970 to an estimated US$634
million in 1974. The Dominican Republic was one of the few countries able to
increase its volume of sugar exports in a period of rising world prices. Raw
sugar exports amounted to 764,000 tons in 1970 and 1,016,000 tons in 1974.
Other exports have also been buoyant. The combined export value of cocoa,
coffee, and tobacco reached US$134 million in 1974 as compared to US$63 million
in 1970. Ferronickel exports, which began in 1972, reached US$93 million in
1974. Although tourism has only recently become a significant source of
foreign exchange, gross tourism earnings came close to US$50 million in 1974,
up from about US$20 million in 1970.
7.        The economic expansion of 1970-74 was accompanied by liberal credit
policies. In this period, the stock of bank credit to the private sector
increased at an average annual rate of over 33 percent and bank credit to the
public sector increased at an average annual rate of 14 percent. The infla-
tionary potential of the fast credit expansion was partly compensated by an
increased willingness on the part of the private sector to hold time and
savings deposits, even though low yields are paid to savers. Nevertheless,
the Santo Domingo Consumer Price Index, which rose at an average annual rate
of 4 percent in 1970-71, accelerated to 14 percent in 1973-74. Part of this
increase was the result of the sharp increase that import prices experienced
in 1974. It is probable, moreover, that the cost of living in Santo Domingo
understates inflationary pressures because prices of staples and rents,
which weigh heavily in the index, are controlled. In any event, the liberal
credit policy of 1970-74 would have led to even greater price rises, had not
imports been allowed to rise from US$278 million in 1970 to US$673 million
in 1974, an annual nominal rate of nearly 25 percent and a real rate of 14
percent.
8.        In 1974, world sugar prices rose to record levels.     The world price,
which had averaged 8.5 cents/lb in 1972/73, peaked at over 60 cents/lb in
November and averaged 30 cents/lb for the year. The Dominican Republic,
because it had followed the practice of selling forward most of its crop,
did not fully benefit from these high prices in 1974, as the average price
obtained was 14.7 cents/lb. In early 1975, it was expected on the basis of
future sales already contracted at that time that Dominican sugar exports in
1975 would sell at an average of 33 cents/lb. The actual average export
price received in 1975 was 25.4 cents/lb. While still a very high price,
it did not allow for the reserve build-up that had been envisaged (see
Economic Report 611-DO).
9.        The potential for a reserve build-up in 1975 was further affected
by a severe drought, causing low sugar exports and higher food imports than
in 1974. The volume of bauxite and ferronickel exports also dropped in 1975,
owing to weak foreign demand. On the other hand, the Rosario gold and silver
mine started operations in 1975, with exports of US$28.6 million. The



- 3 -
authorities were able to sterilize in 1975 about US$60 million of tax
revenues and US$20 million of sugar exporters' revenues in special reserve
accounts. These measures helped prevent excessive expansion of domestic
credit and imports, making it possible for banking system external reserves
to increase by US$60 million in 1975. As a consequence of the poor weather
and world recession, GDP growth in constant prices was only 4.7 percent
in 1975.
10.       Prospects for 1976 are mixed.    Good weather in late 1975 and early
1976 is expected to lead to a recovery in agricultural output. Recent expan-
sions in installed electric power capacity should facilitate some growth
in industrial production. The ongoing economic recovery in OECD countries
could result in larger volumes of bauxite and ferronickel exports, as well
as in higher earnings from tourism. Further expansions in gold mining
capacity are under way. On the other hand, with world sugar prices running
at about one-half the prices obtained by the country in 1975, total 1976
export earnings may be some US$200 million below the 1975 levels and a sub-
stantial balance-of-payments deficit is expected to re-emerge. Because the
Government feels that the Dominican Republic failed to benefit fully from
th& high sugar prices prevailing in 1974 and 1975, it has been reassessing
its marketing strategy. This reassessment has led to a marked slowdown in
marketing the current sugar crop. As a result, in early 1976 domestic
liquidity continued to be tight, and the authorities were again pursuing
cautious fiscal and incomes policies so that overall growth is likely to be
quite modest.
11.       Because much of the recent economic growth was concentrated in
the main urban centers, it did not materially improve the living standards of
the rural majority. Although the official accounts show a GNP per capita of
between US$460 and US$480 in 1972, most non-financial indicators of the level
of economic development show the Dominican Republic at par with other Latin
American countries in the US$320 to US$360 GNP per capita range (see Annex
I, p. 5), and suggest that poverty is far more widespread than suggested by
GNP per capita figures. A recent health sector assessment found that the
food intake of almost 70 percent of the population is below the minimum
nutritional standards established for Central America and Panama and that over
threefourths of pre-school children suffer from protein-calorie malnutrition.
Malnutrition in the Dominican Republic is probably more severe than in any
Central American country.
12.       The Government is acting to correct the disparity between rural
and urban incomes. It has taken action to redistribute land, to redirect
public credit to small scale farmers, and to extend the benefits of public
education to rural areas. Since 1972, the land reform institute has acquired
over 225,000 hectares (almost 10 percent of the country's arable land). Much
of this land has been distributed to individuals -- in farms of under 7
hectares -- or to "asentamientos", state farms in which the members work the
land together and share the proceeds. To ensure that subsidized credit
reaches small-scale farmers, the lending ceiling of the State Agricultural
Bank was lowered from US$250,00 to US$50,000.    The average size of new



loans made in 1975 was about U SSI , 50(3 in the case of the AgricultuIral Bank
and even smaller in the case of the two other official agricultural credit
agencies. The Government also intends to broaden the opportunity for
chiildren to have at least four vears of primary schooling, especially in
rural areas. With Bank Group assistance, the Government is beginning to
emphasize nonformal vocational training for agricultural activities and
industrial trades.
13.       The Government is also continuing its efforts to provide new employ-
ment opportunities by pursuing growth-oriented policies and carrying out a
large public investment program. Nonetheless, despite recent increases in
output, the overall urban unemployment rate has not been significantly reduced,
mainly because the urban labor force has increased by more than 6 percent per
annum, reflecting migration to the cities and an increase in the economic
participation of women. A recent ILO study suggests that in early 1973,
20 percent of the Santo Domingo labor force was unemployed and 60 percent of
the remainder were partially unemployed. In spite of extensive rural migra-
tion, underemployment in agriculture is still widespread. Nationwide, un-
employment and underemployment are equivalent to about 40 percent of the labor
force. Because of the fast growth of population (over 3.3 percent annual
natural increase), the economy would need to expand by 6.5 percent per vear
merely to maintain unemployment at its present high rate.
14.       The United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and IDA have provided the bulk of
external assistance since 1960. Because of its income level, the country is
no Longer eligible for IDA credits. USAID's budget has been significantly
reduced in recent vears and U.S. government assistance to the Dominican
Republic has gone down from over USS100 million per year in the mid-1960's
to about US$17 miLlion per year. IDB lending has averaged USS30 million per
year. The Dominican Government has also been able to borrow modest amounts
from foreign commercial banks.
15.       The Covernment's prudent financial management is reflected in a rela-
tively small and well-structured external public debt. As of year-end 1975, the
disbursed total external public debt of USS437 million was equivalent to 11.5
percent of GDP. The Government has taken the position that the economy cannot
afford to service more than a quite limited amount of debt on conventional
terms, because of its lasting structural weakness.     Therefore, only one-third
of the debt had been contracted at commercial terms (commercial banks and
suppliers' credits) and the debt service ratio is relatively low. The Govern-
ment, in its assessment of terms that the country can afford, is mindful of the
fact that until only a few years ago official external lenders like the Bank
considered that the economy's creditworthiness was so fragile as to warrant
lending only on highly concessionary terms such as those provided by IDA.
16.       Despite progress achieved in recent years towards diversifying
exports, sugar still represents more than half of export earnings. Sugar
prices, traditionally highly volatile, are expected to remain depressed for
several years, whiLe other traditional exports (ferronickel, coffee, cocoa,
tobacco, and bauxite) are expected to grow slowly in the medium term. While



- 5 -
gold and silver exports are expected to expand, as well as tourism earnings,
and the country could develop new exports, such as agro-industrial products,
the balance of payments outlook is not likely to change significantly until
the mid-1980's. On balance, export earnings over the next decade are likely
to fluctuate considerably and can be expected to lag behind import growth
if an effort to improve social conditions is to be sustained. Therefore,
the country will continue to need a substantial resource transfer over the
medium term.
17.       The urgently required improvement of social conditions is expected
to lead to a shift in the composition of public development outlays towards
agriculture and the social sectors, i.e., towards sectors with a relatively
high local cost component. It may not be possible, therefore, to achieve
the necessary transfer of development assistance if the latter is limited
to the foreign exchange component of development projects. Given this
situation, it is desirable to Include some local cost financing in external
official loans.
18.       Because the authorities have pursued prudent debt management
policies, they have some untapped borrowing capacity from private sources.
But they could draw from these sources only in moderate amounts, if overall
debt terms are to remain sufficiently soft in the face of poor prospects in
the world sugar market. To the extent that new commercial borrowing is kept
at moderate levels and a suitable balance is maintained between conventional
and concessionary loans, the Dominican Republic can be considered creditworthy
for some Bank lending.
Eligibility for Third Window Lending
19.       The foregoing paragraphs (11 through 18) present material which is
relevant to the consideration of Third Window financing for the Dominican
Republic. In summary, the country is considered eligible for this type of
financing on the basLs of the following criteria:
(a) Poverty: Although the GNP per capita is shown at about US$460
in 1972 (Bank Atlas figure), most non-financial indicators of the
level of economic and social development show the Dominican
Republic at par with other Latin American countries in the
US$320 to US$360 per capita income level (see Annex I, p. 5).
(b) Performance: The Dominican Republic is making a substantial
development effort in relation to its resource base and economic
potential. The Government is pursuing growth-oriented policies
designed to provide new employment opportunities, attempting to
correct the imbalances between the urban and rural population and
promoting the diversification of the country's foreign exchange
earnings.
(c) Creditworthiness: The Dominican Republic is creditworthy for
limited amounts of Bank lending. Its external debt and debt ser-
vice are at moderate levels, although its overall borrowing should



- 6 -
continue to be on relatively soft terms given the critical dependence
of the balance of payments on sugar exports and the depressed out-
look for world sugar prices.
(d)  Alternative sources of finance:   In the past, the bulk of the
Dominican Republic's borrowings has come from IDA, USAID, and IDB.
The country is no longer eligible for IDA financing, USAID has
sharply reduced its lending program, while IDB lending is expected
to remain at recent levels. As indicated in paragraph 15, the
Government is prudently limiting its recourse to borrowing on
commercial terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
20.       Since the Bank Group began operations in the Dominican Republic in
1969, the country has received three IDA credits totalling US$22 million and
four Bank loans totalling US$59 million, making a total for the Bank Group
of US$81 million. At the end of June 1976, the Bank and IDA held about
US$70 million, including about US$40 million not yet disbursed. One loan of
$25 million, made in 1969 for the Falconbridge ferronickel project, has been
fully disbursed.
21.       Two IDA credits were made in FY71:    US$4 million for an Education
Project and US$5 million for a Livestock Development Project. A third IDA
credit for US$13 million was approved in FY73 for an irrigation project (Yaque
del Norte) which is being jointly financed with IDB. Two Bank loans were made
in FY75: one for US$21 million to finance a tourism project and another one
for US$8 million to finance a Second Education Project. The latest loan, US$5
million on Third Window terms for a Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Proj-
ect, was approved by the Executive Directors in July 1976. IFC has made one
investment in the Dominican Republic: a loan and an equity commitment for
US$7.4 million in FY74 for a cement project, which has been fully disbursed.
Execution of Bank Group-financed projects has been, on the whole, satisfactory.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC
investments as of June 30, 1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.       When the Bank Group began to lend to the Dominican Republic in the
late sixties, the country's precarious economic and financial situation required
that all external assistance be on highly concessionary terms. Therefore,
with the exception of the Falconbridge ferronickel project, an enclave export
project, all lending up to fiscal year 1973 was on IDA terms. In view of the
considerable economic progress achieved by the country in recent years, the
Dominican Republic is no longer eligible for lending on IDA terms. However,
for the reasons explained in Part I, the Dominican Republic will continue to
require some external financing on concessionary terms.



23.       Bank Group lending to the Dominican Republic has been primarily
directed at redressing the three major obstacles to economic and social develop-
ment: the vulnerability of the balance of payments, higlh rates of rural under-
employment and urban unemployment, and weakness of the institutions respon-
sible for sectoral policies, project preparation, and project execution. The
ferronickel, livestock, and tourism projects are aimed at strengthening the
Dominican Republic's balance of payments. The livestock and tourism projects
have at the same time strengthened sectoral institutions; the Road Maintenance
and Reconstruction Project is expected to improve the national road maintenance
capability. The education projects are directed at upgrading the capabilities
of the labor force, thus helping to resolve the underemployment and unemploy-
ment problems. The Yaque del Norte Irrigation Project will assist both to
improve the standards of living of the rural population as well as to increase
production in a potentially rich agricultural area.
24.       The Dominican Republic's population density ranks among the highest
in the hemisphere, and the net population growth rate would also be among the
highest were it not for substantial emigration to the United States and Puerto
Rico. The Government has begun an active, though limited, family planning
program with the support of the United Nations Fund for Population Activities
and USAID, and has requested Bank assistance to complement the activities of
these agencies. The Project is designed to improve the efficiencv of the
Dominican Republic's family planning program through the strengthening of the
public health system.
25.        Sugar exports are likely to remain the Dominican Republic's principal
source of foreign exchange earnings in the foreseeable future. The State
Sugar Council, which is responsible for some 60 percent of the countrv's
sugar output, is considering, with the assistance of Bank staff, a project
designed to increase field and factory productivity. Implementaton of this
project would assist the Dominican Republic to maintain its competitive posi-
tion in the world sugar market and to make more effective use of its limited
land resources.
26.       The U.S. Government has in the past been the Dominican Republic's
major source of external financing, mainly for budget support and for projects
in agriculture, education, health, and for industrial credit. However, as
noted above, this support has been declining sharply. The IDB has been
active in power, irrigation, water and sewerage, industrial and agricultural
credit, and higher education, and has made one loan for ports development.
Future lending by the USAID is expected to be concentrated in health, agricul-
ture and rural development, while IDB expects to continue lending in the
sectors in which it has been active in the past.



- 8 -
Table i: External Assistance to the Dominican Republic, 1953-1976
(USS million; commitments, net of cancellations)
U.S.
IBRD/IDA /a     IDB      Government /b
Lending '953-65                               -          12.0         47.7
Lend.ng 1966-76                            76.0         174.0        245.8
Lend ing by Sector:
Power                                       -          67.0         16.6
Education, HeaLth, and Housing           12.0           3.4          9.3
Agrictulture, Livestock, and Fishing      18.0         45.2          26.5
Industry and Tourism                     46.0           7.0         27.9
Water and Sewerage                          -          27.5             -
Transportation                              -          35.5            _
Other                                       -           0.4        213.2 /c
Total                                 76.0         186.0        293.5
/a   A US$5 million loan for a Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project was
made in July 1976; the loan has been signed but is not yet effective.
/b   USAID and PL480; excludes PL480 grant funds.
/c   Mainly budget support.
27.       The Bank Group's share in che Dominican Republic's publicly guaran-
teed external debt outstanding and disbursed amounted to 11 percent at the
end of 1975. The Bank Group's share of public external debt service was
11 percent. Its share in the Dominican Republic's external debt and debt
service is likely to remain below 15 percent by the end of the 1970's. The
service of public external debt in 1975 was equivalent to about 3.6 percent
of foreign exchange earnings, i.e., exports of goods and non-factor services
plus transfer receipts. Though some increase in this ratio can be expected,
it should not exceed 10 percent in the early 1980's, provided the Government's
present policy of restricting its borrowing on commercial terms is continued.
PART III - THE POPULATION PROBLEM1
28.       The population of the Dominican Republic almost doubled in the 20
years preceding the 1970 census; at 3.3 percent, its rate of natural increase
in 1970 was one of the highest in the world. Emigration, mainlv to North
America, has reduced population growth to 2.8 percent annuallv. However, tile
still high rate of population increase requires that substantial government
funds be devoted to finance the needed social services. At the present time,
an estimated 49 percent of the population is illiterate, with illiteracv in
rural areas reachiing 60 percent.  Health and nutrition standards are low and
the administrative machinerv for services to improve them .s inadequate.
Although the Government has undertaken ambitious hoisirng, water supply and
sewerage programs, these have been insiiffic ient to meet Ieeds, especially in
rural and semi-rtirli areas.



- 9 -
29.       Social stability as well as economic growth are jeopardized by high
rates of population growth. Despite recent economic expansion, unemployment
and underemployment persist. Tentative estimates suggest that for the country
as a whole up to one-quarter of the labor force may be unemployed and a
recently concluded ILO study indicates that in 1973, 20 percent of the Santo
Domingo labor force was unemployed. The labor force, on the other hand, con-
tinues to grow at about 3 percent annually.
30.       Demographic trends in the Dominican Republic do not portend a
significant decline in population growth rates. The population's age struc-
ture (48 percent was under age 15 in 1970) provides a built-in momentum for
continued high birth rates and improvements in health standards can be
expected to result in a decline in death rates. Urgent steps are therefore
required to bring about a decline in fertility rates by extending family plan-
ning assistance, particularly in rural areas where 60 percent of the popula-
tion lives and where family planning assistance is most deficient.
Government Policies
31.       The Government has encouraged several voluntary agencies to provide
family planning assistance since the early 1960's. In 1968, it established
the National Council for Family Planning (CONAPOFA), the official agency
responsible for planning population programs, coordinating the activities of
all public and private agencies in the field and organizing family planning
services within the official health delivery system. Family planning receives
firm and open support from the Government; several of its agencies provide
advice and assistance in this field. Among these are the main agencies
responsible for health services and social welfare, including the Secretariat
for Public Health and Social Assistance (SESPAS), the Social Security Institute,
and the Office of Community Development. The State Sugar Council, which
employs a large labor force, and the armed forces also provide family planning
assistance.
Family Planning Programs to Date
32.        Five Government organizations and one privately sponsored agency
offer family planning services through clinics. Currently, CONAPOFA operates,
in SESPAS facilities, 205 of the 237 clinics providing family planning assist-
ance. The remaining clinics are operated by the armed forces, the State Sugar
Council, the Social Security Institute, the national police, and the Dominican
Association for Family Welfare, a private agency. In addition, four clinics
are operated by doctors in private practice. The effectiveness of these
clinics varies considerably, depending on the availability of trained staff,
the caseload and staff motivation.
33.       Shortly after it was created, CONAPOFA established that a reduction
of birth rates from 47 per thousand to 38 per thousand should be a national
target for 1973. It was estimated that, in order to achieve this goal, some
20 percent of women of fertile age would have to be reached with family plan-
ning assistance and advice by 1973. The chosen objective has proved difficult
to attain: birth rates were still at about 45 per thousand by 1973 and recent



- 10 -
estimates indicate that only about 6.5 percent of fertile women were prac-
ticing contraception in 1975, too small a proportion to have a significant
impact on the fertility rate.
34.       There are many obstacles to a wider use of family planning methods
in the Dominican Republic. Sixty percent of the population is rural, educa-
tion levels are low and marriages take place at an early age. The great
majority of women of child-bearing age live in areas where family planning
services are either not available or are inadequate because clinics open at
inconvenient hours and/or do not have trained staff. Though an extension of
family planning will require a concerted effort on many fronts to increase
motivation and knowledge of techniques, the most promising strategy under
present circumstances is to strengthen family planning assistance through the
Government's general health services and, in particular, to offer family plan-
ning advice and services to mothers of child-bearing age together with maternal
and child health care. This strategy would help couples limit the number of
their children while improving their nutrition and health standards.
Health Services
35.       To put such a strategy into effect, steps must be taken to improve
the quality of health services. Much greater emphasis should be given to
services in rural areas and to preventive (rather than curative) services;
severe manpower constraints should be reduced by expanding the use of auxiliary
medical personnel, and SESPAS' management should be reorganized and strength-
ened. The Government is developing plans to carry out these improvements
with the technical assistance of the Pan American Health Organization and
USAID. The Project, as well as a recently initiated Health Sector Project
which is being financed by USAID, will further assist in carrying out needed
reforms.
36.       With the assistance of the Pan American Health Organization, a
program to decentralize the administration of health services was initiated in
the 1960s; its objectives are to improve administration at the field level and
extend services to rural areas. This system has proved successful in other
countries, but decentralization through regionalization has proceeded slowly
in the Dominican Republic, mainly due to insufficient delegation of responsi-
bility and lack of adequately trained staff.
37.       There are serious health manpower problems which directly affect
the provision of family planning services. They include severe shortages of
nurses and auxiliaries, over-production of doctors in relation to the
absorptive capacity of the present health care system and a marked geographic
maldistribution of all health personnel. The main consequences are a heavy
"brain drain" of doctors that wastes educational investment, and lack of
health services in rural areas.
38.       The availability of trained nurses and nursing auxiliaries is essen-
tial to the delivery of low cost health services and to the expansion of the
family planning program. Of the 2,436 nursing staff in the health care system



- 11 -
of the country only 15 percent are graduate nurses with 3 or 4 years of pro-
fessional training after completing high school. The rest are nursing auxil-
iaries with 9 months of training after primary school. About half of those
auxiliaries were, until recently, "practical" (untrained) staff serving in
rural clinics and hospitals. Only 25-30 nurses graduate annually from the two
nursing schools; this is mainly due to the relatively high cost of studies and
the rather poor potential which the career has offered until now. The Govern-
ment, however, increased the salaries of health personnel in 1975, and has
agreed to review pay scales from time to time to ensure that they provide
sufficient incentive for people to enter and remain in the nursing profession
and to serve in rural areas (Section 3.12 of the Draft Loan Agreement).
39.       To improve the availability of health personnel, the Government has
developed plans to train nursing instructors, increase the output of trained
nursing personnel of all categories, establish an intermediate category
of nurses (technical nurses) which could be quickly trained, provide better
health facilities in rural areas in order to encourage trained personnel to
serve in such areas, and require medical and nursing students to serve in
rural areas as part of their training. The number of graduate nurses should
be doubled by 1980 in order to fill the supervisory and administrative posi-
tions required for expanded health and family planning services. The Govern-
ment proposes to establish a fellowship program as part of the Project to
train graduate nurses, technical nurses and auxiliaries in existing schools,
and it will provide those institutions with teaching equipment and material
and vehicles. Twenty tutors were already trained in pedagogical methods
In a semester course, completed in November 1975, conducted as part of the pre-
paration of this Project. The Government has agreed that in granting fellow-
ships under the Project it will require each fellowship beneficiary to sign a
contract with SESPAS to ensure that upon completion of the fellowship the
beneficiary will work for SESPAS, in the location set forth in such contract,
for a period of at least two years; repayment of the cost of the fellowship
would be required if the contract were not fulfilled (Section 3.08 of the
Draft Loan Agreement).
40.       Recognizing the impracticability of requiring that all nursing
personnel in supervisory positions be graduate nurses, a new level has been
established by the Government: the technical nurse will be granted a diploma
after completing four years of basic secondary studies and two years of nursing
studies at the secondary level. This program is being carried out by the
Secretariat of Education as part of the secondary education curriculum reform
introduced under the IDA-financed First Education Project and extended under the
Second Education Project. The first technical nurses will graduate in 1978, and
it is expected that about 315 will have graduated by 1980.
41.       The Government has also begun an intensive program to train auxilia-
ries and to upgrade the "practical" (untrained) nurses to at least the auxiliary
level. Auxiliaries will be trained to provide elementary health care, including
first aid, pre-natal and pediatric check-ups, vaccinations and family planning
services. Training of auxiliaries who would work in rural health clinics and
health sub-centers would include IUD insertion and the detection of oral con-
traceptive contra-indications. It is intended that about 1,250 such auxiliaries



- 12 -
should be trained at four existing and two future Nursing Auxiliary Training
Centers over the period 1975-80. To make the training target possible, the
Government intends to shorten the training period for nursing auxiliaries from
9 months to 6 months, enabling training centers to provide two courses a year.
42.       In order to increase the relevance of medical and nursing training
to the Republic's health needs, the Government intends to reach agreement with
four universities, three with medical programs and one with a school of nursing.
The agreement will provide that the universities (i) assign medical and nursing
students to field service in rural areas including those in Regions I and V
and (ii) modify their curricula to emphasize preventive and community health
services, including family planning. In addition, the agreements with the
medical universities will have provisions to the effect that these would help
train SESPAS' staff in community health services. The government has agreed
to conclude such agreements within six months of loan effectiveness. Assur-
ances were also obtained that the Government will cause the nursing school run
by SESPAS to carry out a program similar to that of the university (Section
3.07 of the Draft Loan Agreement).
43.       At present, SESPAS has limited capability for design of health
services, resource planning and organization of programs. The Secretariat has
competent staff, but it is overburdened, and the staff's capability to carry
out new tasks is limited. The Government has undertaken to reorganize the
Secretariat so as to permit a more efficient utilization of the available
professional expertise, and to strengthen the professional staff. An impor-
tant component of the Health Sector Project being financed by USAID provides
technical assistance to bring about the necessary organizational improvements.
The Government has agreed to take the necessary steps to reorganize and
strengthen SESPAS within 12 months of loan effectiveness (Section 4.05 of the
Draft Loan Agreement).
Training in Family Planning
44.        Little training in family planning has been provided up to the
present time to personnel in the health care system and people working in
agencies concerned with social affairs. CONAPOFA has recently provided
limited courses for nurses and doctors, but coverage has fallen far short
of requirements. In order to improve the ability of social workers and
paramedical personnel to counsel and assist in family planning, the Govern-
ment intends to extend such training as part of the Project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.        Initial discussions with the Government on a possible population
project were held in 1973. Preparation missions visited the Dominican
Republic in mid-1974 and the Project was appraised in November 1974. The
Government deferred further action until early 1976 when it requested the
Bank to send a Mission to update the Project and to consider certain changes
introduced by the Government. An updating mission was in the Dominican



- 13 -
Republic from February 17 to 27, 1976. Negotiations were held in Washington
from August 2 to 4, 1976. The Dominican delegation was headed by Mr. Carlos
Rojas Badia, Secretary of Public Health and Social Assistance. Annex III of
this report summarizes the proposed Loan and Project. An appraisal report
(No. 752b-DO) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Objectives and Strategy
46.       The Project is designed to assist the Government develop a compre-
hensive program, to be carried out through its health service system, aimed at
reducing fertility rates while enhancing the health of the population, parti-
cularly of mothers and children in rural areas. Because of the constraints
imposed by the acute shortage of trained personnel, improvement in clinical
facilities and services would be concentrated in two of the six Health Regions
of the Republic initially (Region I in the West and V in the East), and would
be extended to other Regions at a later stage as trained health personnel
become available and experience is gained in the comprehensive approach to
family planning and health. Regions I and V have been selected for this
purpose because they are currently the most deficient in adequate health
services. Furthermore, the extension of health services in those Regions
would complement current Governmental regional development plans.
47.        In order to prepare for an extension of family planning and pre-
ventive health services throughout the health care system, the Project would
help increase the number and quality of nursing personnel nationwide through
training and technical assistance programs benefitting SESPAS, CONAPOFA, the
universities and nursing schools.
48.       The Project is consistent with the Government's overall strategy for
Improving health and family planning services and with related ongoing projects
in the health sector. Its main components are described below.
Project Description
49.        The Project would include the construction and equipping of 26 rural
health clinics in Regions I and V and one health sub-center in Region V, in
locations strategically selected to provide services to the rural and semi-
rural population which now have only minimal access to health and family
planning services. In addition, radio-communication equipment and vehicles
would be financed to ensure rapid referral of emergency cases from the rural
clinics to major hospitals. The Project would also finance travel and other
allowances for medical and nursing supervisory staff in Regions I and V and
advisory services to the two regional health directors and respective medical
and nursing supervisors. These components would enable the establishment of a
comprehensive health delivery system in those Regions, with due emphasis on
preventive care and family planning activities. In additon, several national
universities would field medical and nursing students in the rural areas
including Regions I and V to render basic health services along with the
regular SESPAS staff (see para. 42 above).



- 14 -
50.       The Project's training and technical assistance components would
emphasize programs to strengthen the national health and family planning
systems. The training component would include fellowships for auxiliary,
technical and graduate nurses, and for planning and programming staff of
SESPAS/CONAPOFA; equipment, teaching materials and vehicles for nursing
schools and for CONAPOFA; and tutors and lecturers' travel allowances and
fees for courses and seminars given by SESPAS, CONAPOFA and other partici-
pating agencies (see paras. 40-42 above). Technical assistance financed under
the Project would include advisory services to universities, CONAPOFA and to
SESPAS on health services delivery, information systems and statistics; on
design, management and operation of re-oriented community health care and
family planning services; on research on family planning programs; for curri-
culum reform so that community health care and family planning are adequately
covered at the university level; and for project preparation and implementa-
tion, including travel allowances for six family planning training coordi-
nators and support staff (one team for each of the six Health Regions).
Operating costs for a program of community-based distribution of contraceptives
in rural areas and urban slums would also be financed under the Project.
Project Implementation
51.       The Government has given assurances that it will acquire the right
to use all sites for project construction, in locations acceptable to the
Bank, within three months of loan effectiveness (Section 3.05 of the Draft
Loan Agreement). Responsibility for construction of the physical facilities
included in the Project and for coordinating all technical assistance and
training activities will rest with a Project Implementation Unit which has
been established within SESPAS. The Regional Health Directors will be res-
ponsible for Project execution in their respective Regions. The Project
Implementation Unit is composed of a Director, who is also the Director of
the International Assistance Division of SESPAS and who reports directly to
the Secretary of Health; a Deputy Director; a Training Coordinator, and an
Architect. Salary support for Project Unit officers would be financed up to
50 percent by the proposed loan over a period of three years. To plan the
execution of the Project and review its progress, the Secretary of Health will
call a meeting at least every four months of the senior officials of SESPAS,
CONAPOFA, other Government agencies dealing with social affairs and represent-
atives of universities (Section 3.01 of the Draft Loan Agreement).
52.        It is envisaged that family planning services would be offered
within the context of a comprehensive community health care program. In
Regions I and V, the Project would implement a delivery system representing
a shift from the present emphasis on expensive curative services, to preven-
tive, community-based health services, including family planning. To ensure
the participation of social workers in the Project, the Government has given
assurances that, within three months of loan effectiveness, it will cause the
Office of Community Development, State Sugar Council, the Dominican Agrarian
Institute, and the Department of Agricultural Extension of the Secretariat of
Agriculture to assist in the implementation of the Project. The Government has
also agreed to enter into an agreement with the Social Service of Dominican



- 15 -
Churches, so that the Service will assist the Government in the distribution of
contraceptives and in carrying out family planning education programs (Section
3.10 of the Draft Loan Agreement).
53.       SESPAS would be responsible for operating the rural health clinics
and the Regional Health Sub-Center. In order to ensure that health service
administration in Regions I and V is improved as part of the decentralization
policy which the Government has adopted, the Government has given assurances
that it will consult the respective Health Directors before appointing, trans-
ferring and dismissing staff, and that the Health Directors will be provided
with an adequate budget and be given autonomy on day-to-day financial matters.
Assurances were also given that new positions will be created to operate the
new facilities in Regions I and V, and that qualified staff will be appointed
to such positions (Section 3.06 of the Draft Loan Agreement).
54.       To ensure that graduates of the Nursing Auxiliary Training Centers
(see para. 41) and other nursing training facilities will be suitably employed,
especially in rural areas, the Government has agreed that, beginning in 1977,
it will create the necessary positions within SESPAS (Section 3.09 of the
Draft Loan Agreement).
55.        In order to assess the impact of the Project on family planning, it
is essential that program evaluation be carried out continuously and systema-
tically. The Government has agreed to continue to carry out an evaluation of
its family planning program (Section 3.11 of the Draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing Plan
56.       Total project costs are estimated at US$7.5 million, including con-
tingencies of US$1.4 million (a breakdown of project costs is given in Annex
III). Foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$2.4 million, or about 32
percent of total costs. The proposed loan of US$5.0 million would cover the
foreign exchange costs and US$2.6 million of local costs, including $0.4
million of operating costs (50 percent of Project Unit administrative costs,
travel allowances for supervisory health personnel and 80 percent of the
operating expenditures of the community-based program for distribution of
contraceptives). Local currency financing is justified by the country's
economic situation (see para. 17). Other project costs, estimated at US$2.5
million, would be financed by the Government.
57.       The proposed loan would include retroactive financing not to exceed
US$83,000, to cover expenses incurred by the Government since March 1, 1976 to
start project preparation and train staff. SESPAS would establish a separate
Project Account which would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and to which the Government would make monthly advance
deposits (Sections 3.01 and 4.03 of the Draft Loan Agreement). Establish
ment of the Project Account and deposit by the Government in the account of
US$300,000 equivalent would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 5.01
of the Draft Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
58.        The Project includes 92 man-months of consulting services to pro-
vide technical assistance. Of this total, 68 man-months will be for senior
advisors at a total cost of about US$198 thousand, or US$2,900 per man-month.
Twenty-four man-months of associate advisors (who could be graduate students
in a health field) are also contemplated. The total cost of these advisors is
estimated at about US$40 thousand, or US$1,700 per man-month. The cost of
these consultants is in line with the prevailing cost of the type of expertise
required.
59.        Recurrent costs related to the Project after the third year of
operation, when the Government would have assumed full responsibility for
salary and Project Implementation Unit operation expenses, are estimated at
RD$400,000 per annum, or approximately 2 percent of SESPAS' projected recurrent
expenses. These additional expenses would not adversely affect the Govern-
ment's fiscal position.   The Government would undertake to finance the cost of
medical and nursing staff in rural health facilities in Regions I and V and
the services of CONAPOFA's regional training coordinators and their staff for
at least 15 years from the date of the Loan Agreement (Section 4.04 of the
Draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
60.        Contracts for over US$200,000 or equivalent for civil works and over
US$80,000 for furniture and equipment for the clinics and the sub-center,
special equipment (audio-visual and radio-communication equipment and teaching
aids) and vehicles, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding according to Bank guidelines. Contracts for civil works of less than
US$200,000 but not exceeding US$400,000 in the aggregate, and for furniture
and equipment, special equipment, and vehicles of less than US$80,000 but not
exceeding US$200,000 in the aggregate, would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Contractors for civil works would be prequalified.
Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a prefer-
ential margin of 15 percent of the CIF cost of competing imports, or the
current applicable import duty, whichever is lower.
61.        Disbursements would be made on the basis of 100 percent of the cost
of technical assistance, research, professional fees, and project preparation
costs; 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of imported vehicles and
special equipment; 80 percent of total costs of training and seminars, the
community-based distribution program, and supervision travel allowances; 60
percent of the total cost of furniture and equipment; 30 percent of the cost
of civil works which represents the foreign exchange component of such works;
and 50 percent of Project Administration costs during project execution.
Project Justification
62.        Reduced population growth will make it more feasible for the Govern-
ment to achieve development goals, in particular to increase educational
levels, improve health and nutrition and lower unemployment. The Project
would be part of a national family planning effort aimed at reducing the



- 17 -
total fertility rates, from 7.1 in 1970 to 3.4 in the year 2000, so that
total population would be 8.8 million by the year 2000, instead of 12.3 mil-
lion which would result if fertility remained constant. The family planning
effort is expected to account for over 80 percent of the desired fertility
reduction and socio-economic development would account for the remainder. The
Project, through the improvements it would make to health and family planning
service delivery, and creation of demand for family planning, would be expected
to contribute directly to over one-fourth of the fertility reduction resulting
from the family planning program. In the short run, if the assumptions about
the number of family planning acceptors and contraceptive mix are fulfilled,
it is estimated that, as a result of the measures introduced by the Project,
the combined crude birth rate in Regions I and V could be as low as 41 per
1,000 in 1980, down from 47 per 1,000 in 1970.
63.        The Project would also assist in bringing about improvements in the
delivery of health services by improving the quality and increasing the number
of health personnel. It is estimated that in Regions I and V the Project
would make it possible to provide effective health and family planning services
to about 800,000 people by 1981, compared with 115,000 that could be expected
without the Project. Institutional improvements in health services, initially
concentrated in Health Regions I and V, would serve as a useful model to
extend such benefits to other rural areas at a later stage.
Risks
64.        The major risk to the success of the Project is the institutional
weakness of SESPAS. A previous USAID-funded family welfare project encountered
serious difficulties mainly with respect to the staffing of the physical facili-
ties provided thereunder.
65.        This risk should be substantially reduced as a result of the Govern-
ment's decisions to strengthen SESPAS' organization and management (para. 43),
increase salaries of nurses (para. 38), expand nurse training courses (para.
39-41) and require that medical and nursing students undertake field service
(para. 42).
66.        Recognizing that the Project constitutes a new approach to health
delivery and family planning in the Dominican Republic, and that there is an
acute shortage of health personnel in the Dominican Republic, the Project is
concentrating, as an initial stage, in two Health Regions. As SESPAS's capabi-
lities are strengthened, the Project approach will be replicated in other parts
of the country.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.        The Draft Loan Agreement between the Dominican Republic anld the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article T11, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement and the text of the draft resolution approv'ing



- 18 -
the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Features of the Loan Agreement of special interest are referred to in paras.
38-39, 42-43, 51-55, 57 and 59 above. A special condition of effective-
ness is the establishment by the Government of the Project Account with an
initial balance of US$300,000 equivalent (Draft Loan Agreement, Section
5.01).
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and with the established criteria for Third Window
loans.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
August 31, 1976



Page 3. of 5
TABLE 34k
ODMINICAN REP         - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KRZ)-------------------------
---------------                        D~~~~ODMINICAN REP                    REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL        48.7                                          MOST RECENT
AGRIC.        214.1                       19 60      1 970   ESTIMATE           NICARAGUA       JAMAICA         SPAIN'-
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                         2     ---0.0  3,80.0    720.0               L~160.0      770.0      1560.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATIStIZ-S
POPULATION (MID-TR. MILLION)                3.0         14.1        14.7 /               1.8         1 .9        3 3. 6
POPULATION DE-NSITY
PER SQUARE KR.                           63.0        83.0        96.0 /t              1 '.0       170.0        67.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND           158.0                   1714.0                                         97.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDC ABIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND          149.9       147.3         45.8               149.3        38.5         21.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE -ER THOUSAND            18.7        13.4&        11.0                16.8         8.6          8.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE 0/TIGO)          1.0          103.0 /a     1o6.0                S 4.        32.2        2 7.9
LIVE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH 1 YRS)    1491         55.14       57.8                50.6         67.8        70.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    .          3. 5        3. 5                 3.3         2 .7         1. 4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z3
TOTAL                                     3.6 /b      29 /9        2.V9/af,            2.7 /a      1.6 /a       1.1I
URBAN                                     6.:1        5.6          6.7                 6.:0        6. 2         2. 0
UR989N POPULATI1ON I(1 OF TO TAL)          00.0        4 0. 0       4 2 .0              4 5.0       37 .0        5 9. 1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 10) 14 YCARS                          67 .3       47T.5         ..47.0                         45. 9       2 7.A8
LS TO 64 TEARS                           49 .7       4 9.4          .5 0 .0                       48. 5        6 2. 5
65 TCARS AND OVEN                         3 .0        3. 1                             3. 0        5.46         9. 7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                        1.0         1.0           .                  1.0          1.1         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENOE'SCY RATIO                  1 .9 /c     1. 9/S.                          2 .1         1 .71.
FAMILY PLANNINZ
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATI YE. THOU)              .         36.8           .                 18.9        6:9.8
USERS (Z OIF RARRIED WOMEN)                .                      6.5 /b
EMPLOY MENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)             8020.0      1100.0                            50 0.0      40 0.0/ I 119 00. 0
LAROR FORCE IN AGPICJLTURE It)             61 .0       55 .5                            5 1.0       3 3. 0       2 4. N
UNEMPLOTED (C OF LAROR FORCE)                 .        1 4. 0/d     20.0 Lc             16 .O/c     1 4.0         2. 0/
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
O OF PRIVATE INCOME REC-D R1-
HIONEST 5% OP HDUSOOLOS                     .        2 6. 3 /t                        42.4 /d
)UWST 20% OF WUSHMW                        ..        54.36 ..4.47
LODdE  20% 07 HOUSES=                      .          4. 34t                           3. 1
LOWET 140% OF BD)SETJ                      .         12.4   I       .81/
DISTKB3IfOR OF LAND CMIIESNIF
Z OWINED AT TOP 101 OF OWNERS                .         62. 7 
O OWNED AT SMALLEST 10X OWNERS               ..         1.8.                               ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PCR PHYSICIAN                 1600.0 /,   2100.0      9V4O1. C             2060.0      2 630 .0      7 90. 0/b
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            61 9007C    39.0         1872.0 /d           4 860.0     1720O.0/b    14 30. 0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL AED               440.07W8    350.0        360.0               410.0       240.0        220.0
PER CAPITA 3UP'LT OF-
CALORIES (0 OF REQUIREMENTS)             92.0        91.0         94.0               106.0       103.0        107.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                  64.0        50.0         48.0                70.0        56.0         01.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PLLS,              .         2 9.0           .3 3 .0                      29.0/2       40. 0
CEATA RATE C/tHOJ) AGES 1-4                            17.0...                                                    0. 9
EDUCATION
AD.JUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                           99.0 /g    107. 0/      108         8.0 /a ooI           101.0       131.0 /c
SECCNOART SCHVIOL                        13.0 Z      19.O0        20.00j              18.oj7-      214.0       57.o07
TEARS OF SCMOD..ING PPOVIDEO
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                 12 .0       1 2. 0       1 2. 0              12.0         1 2. 0      1 3. 0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
EZ OF SECONDART)                         44.0         5.0          3.0                 9.0          9.0        20.0
ROULT LITERACT RATE (II                      .          50.0        51.0                5 3.0        86.0/d      94. 0
HOUSING
PERSO;NS PER ROOMo (AVERAGE)                 1 .6          ...
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (1)                          9  0/                                                       .o/
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                       20S           ....                                       iaog
(1 O7 ALL DWELLINGS)                     20 .0         ...                                         27.0
RURAL OWELLINGS CONNECtED
TO ELECTRICITY (0)                        3 .0         ...
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)             34.0         38.0        40.0                55.0        376.3       214.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU Po,)               4.0         10.0        11.0                17.0         38.0        70.0
ELECTRICItyT (KWH/YR PER CAP)              113.0       227.0       331 .0 Li            3143.0      8 25. 0    1 6 27. 0
NEWSPRINT (KG/TM   PER CAP)                 0 .6         1.0         0.6                  1.8         4 .3         5. 8
.--   - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - -  -- - -  - - - -  - - -  - - - - -  - - -  - - -  - - - -  - -
SEE 4OTES AND DEFINITIONS ON RE-VERSE



0 D }tl'':: t i;2tT: ji0ii ' lliifr~~~83}
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: O  T 
S X  D   |  O   E ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~4
~ F  ez  O   o  u   r  <>   X  %, a ,   s, E  <  E  < :  >   * LA
_  _  1   W   E  -  O   _  ~ ~~~  O   O   6
S @ < >  ffi C  v w M |X C C cC >, no W ; bAH 0 e O z > H ~ *IoR
3 7 f              _=     e * W a - - u > 
W-,~~~~~~~~ . . .' .g .1 M:.; .'t  '



ANN EC I
Page 3 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                    ANNUAL RATE OF GRO'rH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.      %                       1960 -66         19614 -70         197CL75
GNP at Market Prices        3,704.1      100.0                      14.3              3.8
Gross Domestic Investment     917.5      214.8                      10.8              5.7              16.e
Gross National Saving         821.L       22.2                     -15.2              C.1              17.5
Current Account Balance       -6C.2      -1.6
Exports of Goods, NFS       1,003.2       27.1                      -4.7              5.C              12.0
Imports of Goods, NFS      -1,007.0      -27.2                     11.i               2.6              12.6
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                 Labor Force/                 V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.                       M3n.       %                  us $         %
Agriculture                   691.0     18.2               0.66     52.8                 1,017       34.5
Industry                      884.7     23.3               0.18     1L.14               14,s15      i6T.8
Services                    2,221.1     58.5               0.1,1   32.8                  5,0117     178.14
Unallocated
Total/Average
379        100.0              1.25       ,0                  ,C37      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                           Central Government
(RD$ Mln.j        % of GDP                  ( RD$Mln.)         % of GDP
1975         1975      1972-74               1975       L975        1972- 74
Current Receipts                 692.9         18.2         17.5               6L5.5       17.C          15.7
Current Expenditure              296.8           7.8        10.3               22S.C        6.c           7.7
Current Surplus                  396.1        .10-.          7.2               1416.5      11.C
Capital Expenditures             2614.3          7.C         7.4                236._       6.2           6.3
External Assistance (net)         55.14          1.5         1.7                 9.8        C.,           C.2
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                1970        197         1972       1973        1974        1975
(Million RD$ outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                   283.7       333.5       410.8      517.9       755.6       856.1
Bank credit to Public Sector            213.1       248.3       268.4      302.6       387.2      337.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector           174.9       211.3       275.8      375.7       561.7      673.5
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        19.1        20.0        20.7        22.3       26.1        22.5
Consumer Price Index (1969 - 100)       103.8       108.3       116.8       134.4      152.1       174.1
Annual percentage changes ins
Consumer Price Index                      3.8         4.3         7.8        15.1       13.2        114.5
Bank credit to Public Sector              7.3        16.5         7.7       13.2        28.0       -12.8
Bank credit to Private Sector           33.0         20.8        30.5       36.2        49.5       19.9
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1 Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. 'Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not ayailable
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMTS AND CAPITAL bLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                              MERCHANDISE EXPaRTS
1M       12 L      197N                                 Average 1970-73       1974
(Millions US $)                                      US $ Mln   %     S $ Mln   1%
Sugar                    175-9     g .1   348.2    517 7
Exports of Goods, NFS         513.0     729.6   1,003.2       Ferronickel                L3.5    12.6    93.1    14.6
Imports of Goods, NFS        -564.6    -917.0  -1,007.0       Coffee                     33.4     9.7    454.     7.1
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    -51.6    -87.        -3.8       Tobacco                     8.7     5.4    4739     67.5
Factor Payments (net)          -76.8    -89.9     -92.7        Bauxite                   15.2     4.4    17.8      2.8
Interest on Public debt)       -7.3    -12.9      -17.6       Minor Agricultural         8.3      2.4     9.1     1.4
VAbrkers Remittances  2/         ..       ..        ..        All other commodities      22.7     6.7    35.8     5.7
Net Transfers                   30.5     35.0      36.3              Total                              100.0 3   ;
Balance on Current Account     -97.9   -2742.3   0   .2
EXTERNAL DEBT. DCEMBER 31. 1974
Net Public MLT   Borrodwng      13.3     76.14     55.4
Disbursements               (30.7)   (89-7)    (89.2)                                                   US $ Mln
Amortization                (17.14)  (13.3)   Q33*8)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed          359.1
Direct Foreign Investment       34.6     53.6      50.5            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt             288.2
Short Term Capital             29.6     170.5      16.1            Total outstanding & Disbursed          647T:-
Other items n.e.i               19.3    -54.0      -2.2
Increase in Reserves (+) _      28.9       .2   -5    9.6        DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1974-
(- = increase)                                                                                          h
Gross Reserves (end year)       87.5     91.7     151.3
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            3.6
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt  2/         12.0
Total outstanding & Disbursed          1T53
IBRD/IDA LENDING,  (March 31, 1976) (14illion US$):
IBRD       IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                                  -
Outstanding & Disbursed              20.8         9.5
Through  - 1971                Since  -  1971                 Undisbursed                          27.8       12.5
US $ 1.00   HD$ 1 .00          us R  1.00 S $  $ 1 .00        Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        48.6        22.0
RD $ 1.0  = US $ 1.00         RD $ 1.00 = US $ 1.00
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services,
2   Included under Net Transfers.
2   Includes Direct Investment Incame
not available
not applicable
Country Programs I
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office
May 25, 1976



ANMNEX I
Page 5 of 5
INDICATORS OF INCOME LEWEL
DOMINICAN                    EL
REPUBLIC     ECUADOR     SALVADOR      HONDURAS    PARAGUAY
GNP per cap (1572) j      460          320          330           300          370
Birth rate 2/               45.         41.8          0.0          49.3         42.0
Death rate j                11.0         9.5          8.o          1 4.6         9.0
Infant mrortality rate 3   104          78           57           115           67
Child mortality rate C      17          15           10             9            6
Life expectancy             58          58           65            70           62
Adult literacy rate (%)     51          69           60            52           75
Open Unemployment (%)       20         N.A.          10             8            3.5
j   Abrld Bank Atlas.
2/  Per thous2nd pcpulati.on.
3/  For thousand aged O - 1.
/   1'er thousavld aged 1 - It.
Source:  iconcrnic and 0Social Data Division, EAPL.
Note:  Data refeI to P'test available year.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (AS AT JUNE 30, 1976) 1/
Loan or                                                       US$ Millions
Credit                                                 Amount (less Cancellations)
Number     Year       Borrower           Purpose       Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
One loan fully disbursed                               25.0      -         -
DO-235      1971   Dominican Republic    Education       -      4.0       0.3
DO-245      1971   Dominican Republic    Livestock       -      5.0       0.4
DO-352      1973   Dominican Republic    Irrigation      -     13.0       11.5
DO-1051     1974   Central Bank          Tourism       21.0      -        19.8 '
DO-1142     1975   Dominican Republic    Education      8.0      -         7.9
Total                                      54.0     22.0
of which has been repaid                6.5      -
Total now outstanding                      47.5     22.0
Amount sold
of which has been repaid                 -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /1          47.5     22.0
Total Undisbursed                                             39.9
/1   Prior to exchange adjustments.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS AT JUNE 30, 1976)
Type of              Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor                      Business             Loan   Equity    Total
1974     Cementos Nacionales S.A.      Cement                6.0     1.4      7.4
Total Cross Commitments                            6.0      1.4     7.4
Less Cancellations, Ter-
minations, Repayments,
and Sales                                         _        _       _
Total Commitments now held
by IFC                                           6.0      1.4     7.4
Total Undisbursed                                   _        _
1/   A US$5 million loan for a Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project was
made in July 1976; the loan has been signed but it is not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION   I/
Credit No. 235:      Education Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of February 18,
1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 17, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The Project is about nine months behind schedule, due principally
to staff changes in the Ministry of Education and shortage of counterpart
funds which disrupted construction work. Adequate local counterpart funds
have now been allocated. Construction work of the remaining five project
schools is progressing satisfactorily and is expected to be completed before
the end of 1976. Procurement of furniture and equipment for the project
schools and the technical assistance and fellowship programs have been com-
pleted. The loan should be fully disbursed by the new Closing Date of
December 31, 1976.
Credit No. 245:      Livestock Development Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of
May 19, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Sub-loan funds were fully committed in August 1975, about eight
months later than anticipated. Delays resulted from a downturn in lending
activity during the election year of 1974. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by the end of 1976. Preliminary indications are that significant
productivity increases have been achieved as a result of the Project and a
survey has been initiated to collect data on the impact of the Project
in a systematic manner. Results of pasture trials carried out under the
Project are to be analyzed during the first half of 1976. A study of the
dairy processing industry financed under the loan is being evaluated.
Credit No. 352:      Yaque del Norte Irrigation Project; US$13.0 Million Credit
of January 17, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: January 2,
1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Parallel financing for the Project is being provided by IDB. The
selection of supervising consultants was the main cause for delays in effec-
tiveness. The consultants have completed final designs and tender documents
for the works to be constructed under the first contract, which will be
financed by IDB. The schedule for signature of the first construction con-
tract is contingent on IDB authorization which will depend on the progress
in acquiring rights-of-way. It has now been estimated that the rights-of-way
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balance evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
would be acquired by early 1977, and in the meantime, the process of pre-
qualification, invitation to bid, and negotiation of a contract would be
completed. A special office for land acquisition and settlement has been
established in the project area which should facilitate project execution.
Loan No. 1051:       Puerto Plata Tourism Project; US$21.0 Million of
November 6, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 7,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Site preparation works which were behind schedule have recently
resumed and it is anticipated that the lost time will be recovered. Detailed
engineering studies and preparation of bidding documents for all Project com-
ponents are progressing.
Loan No. 1142:       Second Education Project; US$8.0 Million Loan of
July 17, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: October 8, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Architectural designs for project agricultural and vocational train-
ing institutions are being reviewed and construction is expected to begin in
August 1976. Equipment bid proposals for existing secondary schools are under
review. A draft law for the national vocational training scheme has been
prepared with technical assistance from ILO.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC - POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 The Dominican Republic.
Amount:                   US$5 million, equivalent.
Terms:                    Standard Third Window terms of 25 years, including 7
years of grace, with interest at 4.9 percent per annum.
Project Description:      Shift of emphasis from curative to preventive health
services, including family planning, in Regions I and
V and preparation for future extension to the other
Health Regions. Establishment of a strong program of
family planning, training and motivation in the whole
country through provision of special equipment,
vehicle and travel allowances for six family planning
training coordinators and support staff and financing
of operating costs for field worker training and for
conferences and seminars. Improvement of clinical
services and facilities through construction and
equipment of 26 rural health clinics and one health
sub-center, provision of special equipment, vehicles,
training activities, fellowships and travel allowances.
Operating costs for a program of community-based
distribution of contraceptives in rural areas not yet
covered with health and family planning services.
Expenses for project preparation, project administra-
tion and external auditing services. Technical
assistance for health service delivery, health admin-
istration, information systems and statistics,
research, maintenance training program, physical
facilities evaluation, procurement, and curricula
modification. Provision of equipment, vehicles
and fellowships to nursing schools to alleviate
nursing perennial shortages.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Estimated Cost:                                             (Millions of US$)
Percent of
Base Line
Local  Foreign   Total     Cost
Civil works:
a health sub-center
and 26 rural
clinics                   1.2      0.5     1.7        28
Professional fees         0.2       -      0.2          3
Furniture and
equipment                 0.3      0.3     0.6        10
Special equipment          -       0.4     0.4          7
Vehicles                   -       0.3     0.3          5
Technical assistance      0.1      0.3     0.4          7
Supervision allowances,
cost of training and
seminars, and community-
based distribution        2.1       -      2.1        34
Project Implementation
Unit                      0.3       -      0.3         5
External Auditors          -       0.1     0.1         1
Base line costs           4.2      1.9     6.1       100
Contingencies
Physical                0.1      0.2     0.3
Price                   0.8      0.3     1.1
TOTAL                     5.1      2.4     7.5
Financing Plan:           The proposed loan of US$5 million equivalent would
finance the foreign exchange cost of US$2.4 million
and about US$2.6 million of local costs.    Retro-
active financing up to US$83,000 would be
provided to cover expenses incurred by the Govern-
ment since Mlarch 1, 1976 for project preparation
and training staff. The balance of project costs
would be met by the Government.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Estimated                                          - (IBRD Fiscal Year) -
Disbursements:                                   1977   1978  1979  1980
--- (US$ million) ----
Annual                     0.2   1.9   1.8    1.1
Cumulative                 0.2   2.1   3.9   5.0
Procurement
Arrangements:           Contracts for civil works of US$200,000 or more and
for US$80,000 or more for furniture and equipment,
special equipment, and vehicles would be awarded
under international competitive bidding. Contracts
for less than these amounts and up to an aggregate
of US$400,000 for civil works and US$200,000 for
furniture and equipment, special equipment and vehi-
cles, would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with the
Borrowers' normal procedures which are acceptable to
the Bank. Domestic manufacturers of furniture and
equipment would be allowed a preferential margin of
15 percent of the CIF cost of competing imports or
the current applicable import duty, whichever is
lower.
Technical
Assistance:             Sixty-eight man-months of senior and 24 man-months
of associate advisory services for health ser-
vice administration, comprehensive community health
research, curricula modification, program evaluation,
and facility maintenance and four 12 months fellow-
ships and 6 man-months of study tours to project staff,
on health and family planning program management.
Appraisal Report:         Number 752b-DO, dated August 31, 1976
Population Project Department.






MAY 1976
La~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Al nt bel                      c e a n 
MONTE CR15   J- 0uera\
/T \ no LasCamas ~~~~~~~~~~PUERTO PLATA,a At/an cOce.n
PpIIloSaICedOVla/ D LS,da   H l   oO1 i ODoueblaa Hna an a 
Send   I]~  A,ov  .lnc  'OC,f                       -,  t     >un   MaCa BOn,tar z
CaeEOtllo0  ~f L   a AO;r a  ,;AroSlnc                          IHt I  G4 ) rRiiI A D                     0   I  20  30  00  50
4 O                  ElpTh  RoLoO Aija Niio  Sf Ax  ,               HEl l~VV  _T  r< L QSbgls  HgEI VasnalcO I?NAOUA  KIlLOMEtERS
c J  D L            I..imo,                        DE FMACORIS'O                 D
-  !  1'                 li:         '''I<oeL,fl,OCl  SflCA  S N  __ PA!
I-  ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-B
CX {O/ F ; /H'- ' ' -  -  ' L~i'  S >,  I  _ + c ,; , 11  XdT l,  ~  I  |  |  +  Ir  :  u  I . -
A                                                El E.y.b  NGUA                                KIOMETER
-:  ItI                                                               f n  a .       4s, ;  -__                                       g ,; AN"  4   AN  0, TL.
d ,   ll^i                       FR,;A ,                    -                                !
PI)npicl:                                     *      ADE   Al.T.L _A
I  -  .                 B'        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aeoeaa~~~~~~~Vil R   -  ' 
\              -                                        4.>v& ARA H O 11 A yg  D>3MINICAN REPUBLIC
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-               J
aEP~~1              aI,.LES              I                                         >rVTol OATO  FPRPSD  N  XITN  EALHFCLTE.f  lGoT 
t   A         @/mquioq        ITERTD  OPTASs        jHSIA  S  Ai   ANODC""':.  -'I DIISO  EONARE .  .          *OfM tC \  AA
ti. .      F   \     aIRnOS  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ii- ~ ~ ~ ~Pam
1 :          "0'               $H    SUB-ENTER HHSPITA DOmINICAN REPUBLIC  M   Aonal                                      i
A'  /EDERNALES  POlO
LOCATION OF PROPOSED AND EXISTING HEALTH FACILITIESN
SECRETARIAT OF POUBLIC  HE|ALTH  DOMINICAN  INSTITUTE  OFUNIT                   / STAT
P  U A ALES               I    INTEGRATED HOSPITALS  1SOCIA  SEURT             DIISO..UNAIE              01'MdC
Ceiqaille   I            ik~~~~~~~~, ~HOSPITAL CLASS "A'    DUEGNDAARIESARO
oAg- aN                  Ca SPECIALIZED HOSPITALS                ;__  EG_ ONAL  DIVISIONaDS
I  .  ENERALE HOSPITALS  A  HOSPITAL CLASS "B'  C77,P ROV INCIAL  BOUNDARIES 
' HEALTH SUB-CENTERS  A  HOSPITAL  CLASS 'C  .~- MAIN ROADSI
ELTIRRAL CLINICS    L~ POLYCLI NICS           -AREASea
-                          --INTEONATIONAL ~~~~~~~~~~ ~    ~~BOUNDARIES  aela
SANITARY CENTERSELaCO                                                           laaa
00 PROPOSED  DUB-CENTER                                                              ,
0 C  PROPOSED  RURAL  CLINICS                              'RT  a,,a  a5pO aa  PACIFIC OEN PNAA CLMI



