Report No. 752b-DO                                                         FILE  Copy
Appraisal of a Population and Family
Health Project Dominican Republic
August 31, 1976
Population Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 r RD$1.00
A.  ABBREVIATIONS
ADPBF            -   Asociaci6n Dominicana Pro-Bienestar de la Familia
(Dominican Association for Family Welfare)
CAAE             =   Centros de Adiestramiento de Auxiliares de Enferme4fa
(Nursing Auxiliary Training Centers)
CBD              =   Community-Based Distribution of Contraceptives
CEA              =   Consejo Estatal del Az6car
(State Sugar Council)
CODIA            =   Colegio de Ingenieros y Arquitectos
(College of Engineers and Architects)
CONAPOFA         =   Consejo Nacional de Poblaci6n y Familia
(National Council for Family Planning)
ENE                  Escuela Nacional de Enfermerfa
(National Nursing School)
GODR             =   Government of the Dominican Republic
ICB              =   Internatiunal Competitive Bidding
IDSS             =   Instituto Dominicano de Seguros Sociales
(Dominican Social Security Institute)
IEC              =   Information, Education and Communication
IMR              =   Infant Mortality Rate
INES             =   Instituto Nacional de Educaci6n Sexual
(National Institute for Sex Education)
INTEC            =   Instituto Tecnologico de Santo Domingo
(Technological Institute of Santo Dominto)
IPPF             =   International Planned Parenthood Federation
IUD              =   Intra-Uterine Device
MCH/FP           =  Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning
ODC              =   Oficina de Desarrollo de la Comunidad
(Office of Community Development)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A.   ABBREVIATIONS (cont'd)
ONAPLAN          =   Office for National Planning
PAHO             =   Pan American Health Organization
PIU              =   Project Implementation Unit
SESPAS           =   Secretarfa de Estado de Salud P'ublica y Asistencia Social
(Secretariat of State of Public Health and Social Assistance)
SSID             =   Servicio Social de las Iglesias Dominicanas
(Social Service of Dominican Churches)
UASD             =   Universidad Autonoma de Santo Domingo
(Autonomous University of Santo Domingo)
UCMM             =   Universidad Cat6lica Madre y Maestra
(Catholic University Mother and Teacher)
UNDP             =   United Nations Development Programme
UNFPA            =   United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNPHU                 Universidad Nacional Pedro Henriquez UreTia
(National UniverSbiy Pedro Henriquez Urena)
USAID            =   United States Agency for International Development
WHO              -   World Health Organization
B.   DEFINITIONS
Birth Rate       =   Annual births per 1,000 population
Death Rate       =   Annual deaths per 1,000 population
Age-Specific          Set of 6 or 7 rates obtained by dividing the number of
Fertility Rates  =   annual births to mothers in each age interval from
15 to 45 or 49 ycars by the corresponLding female
population in the same interval.
Total Fertility       Sum of age-specific rates, each multiplied by 5
Rate                  (usual age interval in years).  It is interpreted as
births per woman or per 1,000 women of child-bearing
age (15-49 years). It is a more effective measure than
the general fertility rate, since it takes into account
age distribution of mothers.
Rate of Natural  =   Difference between the crude birth and death rates
Increase
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosud without World Bank authorization.



B. DEFINITIONS (cont Id)
Dependency Ratio        =   Persons of "dependent" ages (those under 15 years
of age and age 65 and over) per person of ??working
ages" 05-64 years).
Infant Mortality        =   Annmal deaths of infants aged less than one year
Rate                        per thousand live births.
Graduate Nurse          =   Nurses who have completed 3 or 4 years of nursing
education after completion of secondary school.
Technical Nurse         =   A new category of nursing personnel (who will
graduate in liceos); course will consist of two
years of nursing after four years of secondary
studies.
Nursing Auxiliary           Health worker with 6-9 months of nursing training
after completion of the eight years of education.
Practical Nurse         =   Nurses without formal training except experience.
Liceos                  =   Secondary Schools.
Rural Clinics           =   Health facilities located in a rural area covering
an estimated population of 2,500-3,000 staffed by
one or two nursing auxiliaries and/or practical
nurse and visited by a physician once a week.
Health Sub-Centers      =   Health facilities with both outpatient and in-
patient services; they have 10 to 30 beds mainly
for deliveries and pediatric cases.
Health Centers          =   Health facilities located in provincial capitals,
providing mainly outpatient services.
Integrated Hospitals        For curative services and the prevention of disease,
for health promotion and rehabilitation.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: BASIC DATA
Area   (in  Km   )  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   48,734
Density (per Km ) 1974  ....  .  .  .  .  .    ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  94 -
Density per arable land (Km ) 1972  ... .      .    ..... .  .  .  .  .  .   .  232
Population (in millions) Mid 1974 (est.)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.56
Birth Rate (per 1,000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47.5-/
Death Rate (per 1,000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.5 -
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104.0 -/
Rate of Natural Increase. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.3%-/
Life Expectancy (1959-61) ................... . Men  57.15a/
Women  58.59 -
Total Fertility Rate. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.1-/
Age Structure (%)                                                            b/
Under 15 years  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  48%-
15-64 years ....  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  49%-/
65 and over . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3%b/
Women 15-49 years (in millions) 1974  ... .  .    .... .  .  .  .  .  .    . 1.02 b
Proportion Married (1970)         ............. . 66%  l d/
Family Planning New Acceptors (in thousands) 1974 . . . . . . . . . . 38.1 -/
Percentage of Rural Population (1970)      .......... . 60%-/
Literacy Rate (10 years and over) ....  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . Male  697
Female  67%
Adult Literacy rates (15 years and over)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51% -
Unemployment Rate (Santo Domingo) 1973.                                  20I-
Population Per Physician  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,100 -/
Population Per Hospital Bed ........    ..........  ..   .  350 -/
Population Per Nursing Person .......    ...........  .   .  3,930-/
Dependency Ratio (age)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.04
GNF (in US$ millions at 1973 market prices)    ..2,310
GNP Per Capita 0JS$) 1973        ..520&/
a/  United Nations Demographic Yearbook 1974, Based on 1970 Census data.
b/  1970 Census Data.
c/  Data for 1973.  Health Sector Assessment for the Dominican Republic (Feb. 1975).
d/  Half of these live in consensual marriage.
e/ Population Council. Reports on Population/Family Planning 'Factbook', Oct. 1975.
f/  International Labour Organization "Generaci6n de empleo, producci6n y crecimiento
economico - El caso de la Rep'ublica Dominicana", Geneva, 1975.
g/  World Bank Atlas, 1975.






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
TABLE OF CONT7'i'4S
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I.   INTRODUCTION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                1 . . .
A.    Background  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 1
B.  The Population Problem  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
II.   HEALTH SERVICES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
A.    Background  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ...  .  .  .  .  .  3
B.  The Secretariat of Health . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
C. Health Manpower . . . . .                                         6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
III.   THE NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM  . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
A.  Participating Agencies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
B.  Program Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
C.  Family Planning Program Performance . . . . . . . . . . .   12
IV.   THE  PROJECT   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  14
A.  Objectives and Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
B.  Project Components  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
C.  Detailed Project Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
V.   PROJECT COST, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENT AND
IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
A.  Cost  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  26
B.  Proposed Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
C.  Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
D.  Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
E.  Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
F.  Accounts and Audit  . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission which visited the
Dominican Republic from November 4-23, 1974, and an up-dating Mission conducted
from February 17 to 27, 1976 at the Government's request to re-initiate discussions
on this project, after an interruption of almost one year, while terms of project
financing were being reconsidered.   The first mission consisted of Mrs. M. N.
Maraviglia (Population Specialist), Mrs. T. V. Tiglao (Education and Training
Specialist), and Mr. H. W. Franckson (Architect), all from the Bank; Mrs. A.
Debuchy, Architect/Health Planner (Consultant), Mr. M. Le Mandat, Architect (Con-
sultant), and Miss N. Gordillo, WHO/PAHO Nurse Educator (Consultant). The second
mission consisted of Mrs. M. N. Maraviglia and Mrs. T. V. Tiglao, with the parti-
cipation of Miss N. Gordillo (WHO/PAHO-DR).



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
VI.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31
VII.   AGREEMENTS  REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   . . . . . . . . . .    32
ANNEXES
1.    Demographic Analysis
2.    1973 Expenditures in Health Care by Institution and Estimated
Target Population
3.    Secretariat of State of Public Health and Social Assistance (SESPAS)
Organizational Chart
4.    Existing Health Facilities in the Dominican Republic (SESPAS and
IDSS) by Region and by Type
5.    Training of Nursing Personnel
6.    The National Council for Family Planning (CONAPOFA)
7.    Comprehensive Health Care
8.    Technical Assistance and Training Courses in the Project
9.    Program of Community-Based Distribution of Contraceptives
10.    Project Implementation
11.    Civil Works
12.    Costs of Non-Construction Project Components
13.    Financing Plan - By Type of Expenditure
- By Functional Category
14.    Estimated Disbursements
15.    Estimated Project Effects in Regions I and V, 1975-1981
MAP
IBRD 11188 Dominican Republic - Location of Proposed and Existing Health
Facilities



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
Appraisal of a Population and Family Health Project
Summary and Conclusions
i.        This report appraises a population and family health project in the
Dominican Republic for which a Bank loan of US$5.0 million equivalent on Third
Window terms is proposed. This three-year project has been designed to assist
the Government in the development of a comprehensive health/family planning
program. Through this program, the health and welfare of the population,
particuiarly of mothers and children living in rural and semi-rural areas,
would be enhanced.   The long-term result of this program would be a significant
reduction in the rate of population growth. During preparation and appraisal
of this project, due attention has been given to the present and prospective
assistance from other donor agencies, particularly the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) and the United Nations Fund for Population
Activities (UNFPA). Coordination among donors has been effected through close
and frequent consultation.
ii.       The Dominican Republic is experiencing an exceptionally high rate of
natural population increase.   A considerable net emigration has kept the annual
growth of population just under 3% in recent years. However, if the high birth
rate (47.5 per 1,000 in 1965-70) and the death rate (14.5 per 1,000) continue at
current levels, the present population of more than four million would double in
about 22 years. The young population structure (48% under the age of 15) means
a high dependency ratio (1.04), large investments in health services and educa-
tion, and a built-in momentum for continued rapid population growth. A rela-
tively unchanged literacy rate (2% increase between 1960-1970) indicates the
educational systemi is already experiencing difficulty in keeping pace with the
population growth. Unemployment and underemployment are high (about 40%). The
need for fertility decline is especially urgent because of the rapidly increas-
ing rates of unemployment and increasing aspirations for better educational
opportunities and more complete health services   The prospect of further mor-
tality reduction makes the need for fertility decline more urgent.
iii.      The project proposes that family planning services be offered within
the context of a comprehensive community health care program; delivery of these
services would be primarily through the health delivery system of the Secretariat
of State of Public Health and Social Assistance (SESPAS). SESPAS is the Government
agency responsible for providing health services to approximately 68% of the
population. However, it was recently estimated that SESPAS delivered health
services to only 37% of the population;  other Government agencies serve about
15% and the private sector takes care of 17%,  This leaves about one-third of
the population with no health services.L/ The Government recognizes that to ex-
pand the health delivery system, the present emphasis on expensive, curative
1/ USAID Health Sector Assessment for the Dominican Republic, February 1975.



- ii -
services must be shifted to an emphasis on preventive, community-based
health services. To effect this change, SESPAS must first undergo a re-
organization and strengthen its management; a USAID health loan signed in
October 1975, includes technical assistance for this. SESPAS' existing
facilities will be expanded from the urban centers to the rural areas. New
channels will be developed outside of SESPAS for delivering health services
at the village level by drawing on other health-related agencies.   Paramedi-
cal health workers will be trained to staff the new clinics; they will also
go into the villages, both to educate the people on preventive health measures
and totreat the sick.
iv.       Voluntary organizations were responsible for introducing the concept
of family planning in the early sixties. The Dominican Association for Family
Welfare (ADPBF), founded in 1966 and affiliated with the International Planned
Parenthood Federation (IPPF), has been the country's main non-Governmental or-
ganization concerned with family planning. Another private organization, the
Social Service of Dominican Churches (SSID), began  promotion of family plan-
ning in 1962 and formal programs of community-based distribution of contracep-
tives in 1972. Official action came in 1968, with the establishment of the
National Council for Family Planning (CONAPOFA) by Presidential Decree. The
delivery of family planning services, while the principal responsibility of
CONAPOFA, is shared by other Governmental and non-Governmental agencies, the
most important of which is SESPAS.
V.        The existing family plann:ng program has not had a significant effect
on fertility to date (only 6.5% of fertile women currently practice contraception).
Chief among the constraints limiting the possible impact of the family planning
program are:  (a) the population is predominantly rural and poorly educated;
(b) the near-universality of marriage (2/3 of all eligible women are either
married or live in consensual unions)   and early age at marriage; (c) high in-
fant mortality; (d) family planning facilities that are usually inaccessible,
inconvenient, inadequately staffed and inadequately equipped; and (e)health
personnel who are inadequately trained (or overtrained) and distributed un-
evenly throughout the population. Those who suffer the most from these limita-
tions are the rural poor.   With technical assistance from the Population Council
and financing from UNFPA, CONAPOFA is currently attempting to reduce these con-
straints by using paramedical staff to deliver family planning services. How-
ever, intensified training efforts are required to extend these services to a
greater portion of the population. Additional family planning services are
being created by SESPAS with assistance from CONAPOFA; these efforts, too, need
more support.
vi.       The proposed project includes the construction and equipping of 26
rural health clinics in Regions I and V and one health sub-center in Region V,
in locations strategically selected to provide services to the rural and semi-
rural population which now has only minimal access to health and family plan-
ning services. It would finance a variety of training activities, fellowships
for local production of nursing personnel and travel allowances to improve



- iii -
service supervision of clinics in rural areas of Regions I and V. These
components would enable the establishment of a comprehensive health delivery
system in those Regions, with due emphasis on preventive care and family
planning activities. In addition, several national universities would field
medical and nursing students in these Regions to render basic health services
along with the regular SESPAS staff. The proposed project would, furthermore,
finance equipment, vehicles and fellowships, so that nursing schools and
technical and auxiliary courses may increase their output to alleviate present
nursing personnel shortages. Technical assistance financed by the project
would include (a) a total of 68 man-months of senior advisory services and
24 man-months of associate (mainly graduate level) advisory services (at an
average annual cost of US$35,000 and US$20,000 respectively, excluding in-
ternational and local travel expenses) for health service delivery, health
administration, information systems and statistics, research, curricula modi-
fication, maintenance training program, facilities eval' iion, and procurement,
and (b) four 12-month fellowships and six months-of study tours. Operating
costs for several training programs and seminars would also be part of project
financing. In order to assist CONAPOFA in immediately establishing a strong
program of family planning, training and motivation in the whole country, the
proposed project would finance allowances for six family planning training
coordinators and support staff (one team for each of the six Health Regions),
operating costs for training about 400 community workers in family planning,
and operating costs of conferences and seminars to educate about 130,000
persons in family planning over the three-year period. Seminars for about 300
teachers of teacheis, to be conducted by CONAPOFA, would also be included in
this project. In addition, the project would finance operating costs for a
program of community-based distribution of contraceptives in rural areas of
the country not yet covered with health and family planning services, to be
implemented by the Social Service of Dominican Churches under the supervision
of CONAPOFA and in coordination with the Government's family planning services.
vii.      The Government has established a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
in SESPAS to oversee project administration, accounting, construction, procure-
ment and training, and it has appointed, under terms and conditions that were
acceptable to the Bank, the Project Director, Deputy Director, Architect and
Training Coordinator. During negotiations, the Government agreed that, in
order to review project progress and plan its execution, the project staff,
the Directors of Health Regions I and V and senior officials from CONAPOFA, the
Technical Secretariat of t;.e Presidency and the universities and other agencies par-
ticipating in the project, will meet at least every four months during the
execution of the project, under the Chairmanship of the Secretary of Health
and Social Assistance. The Government also agreed to make the appointments
of all consultants to be used in the project under terms and conditions accept-
able to the Bank. The establishment of a project account and the initial
deposit of an amount equivalent to not less than US$300,000 is a condition of
loan effectiveness.
viii.     Total project costs are estimated at US$7.5 million equivalent. The
proposed loan of US$5.0 million equivalent (67%) would cover US$2.4 million of
foreign exchange and US$2.6 million equivalent of local costs on project grounds;



- iv -
the Government would contribute US$2.5 million equivalent (33%). The Bank
loan would include retroactive financing not to exceed US$83,000 to cover
expenses incurred by the Government since March 1, 1976 to start project
preparation and train staff.
ix.       All contracts over US$200,000 for civil works, and all contracts
over US$80,000 for furniture, equipment, special equipment and vehicles will
be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. Contracts for
civil works not exceeding US$200,000 and in aggregate not exceeding US$400,000,
and contracts for vehicles, furniture, equipment and special equipment not ex-
ceeding US$80,000 and in aggregate not exceeding US$200,000, will be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally. In all cases, con-
tractors for civil works will be prequalified. Domestic manufacturers of
furniture and equipment will be accorded a margin of preference equal to 15%
of the c.i.f. cost of competing imports or the applicable customs duties,
whichever is lower.
x.        It is expected that the project, through the improvements it would
make to health/family planning service delivery and creation of demand for
family planning, would contribute directly to over one-fourth of the fertility
decline to be achieved by the family planning program during the next 25 years.
In the short run, by 1981, services in the project areas would be provided to
48,000 contraceptive users, and the delivery system would be about three times
as effective as at present. The project would assist, too, in improving over-
all family planning program performance through assistance to CONAPOFA's
training program and promotion of family planning through the community workers.
The project would also make major contributions to improvement and expansion
of the health delivery system, through training and improved supervision; a
wider set of health benefits, particularly to rural mothers and children,
would result.
xi.       The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$5.0 million equivalent to the Government of the Dominican Republic on
standard Third Window terms.



I. INTRODUCTION
A. Background
1.01      This report appraises a population and family health project de-
signed to help the Government of the Dominican Republic (GODR) achieve its
goal of slowing down the country's high rate of population growth. The
country has had an official population policy since 1968, when the Government
established a special inter-agency authority to deal with the problem and be-
gan offering family planning services through Governmental health facilities.
Government efforts have been supplemented by a number of private activities
and are being supported financially by external assistance from the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID), the United Nations Fund
for Population Activities (UNFPA), and, in the private sector, by the Inter-
national Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF), the Church World Service,
and other donors. Despite these efforts, program performance has not yet
achieved much momentum and today only about 6.5% of the eligible couples are
active users of modern services, notwithstanding considerable evidence of un-
satisfied demand. Improved performance will depend primarily on better or-
ganization and administration of health and family planning services, a shift
in the concept of health care, with greater emphasis on rural and preventive
activi4ties a restructuring of health occupations (especially within the nursing
profession), and a considerable expansion of health manpower.   The Government
recognizes these problems and has started to deal with them. The project will
assist the Government in introducing the needed changes; although some project
activities will be nation-wide in scope, the major effort, intended as a first
stage, is concentrated on two of six Health Regions (Regions I and V).
B. The Population Problem
1.02      The population of the Dominican Republic in the 1970 census was four
million, having doubled in the last 20 years.  On the basis of census data, the
birth rate in 1965-1970 was estimated at 47.5 per 1,000, and the death rate at
14.5 per 1,000. producing a rate of natlural increase of 3.3Z, among the highest
in the world.L'  The average number of children born to women by the end
of their reproductive years was 6.8 on the basis of the 1970 census. The infant
mortality rate (IMR) is still high, around 104 per 1,000 live births, one of
the highest in Latin America and about four times that found in developed coun-
tries. In rural areas the IMR was almost 130 per 1,000 live births.2/ Such a
high infant mortality rate presents an obstacle to creating a desire for birth
limitation.
1/ Data from a survey undertaken in 1974 as part of the USAID-sponsored Health
Sector Assessment show that the birth rate in 1973 was 45 per 1,000 and the
death rate was 15 per 1,000.
2/ USAID Health Sector Assessment for the Dominican Republic, February 1975.



.- 2 -
1.03      The popilation is young w-th 48% under the age of 15, resulting in
a dependency ratio of 1.04--twice that typical of developed countries.  This
age str"'cture implies a need for heavy expenditures on health services and
education; it also provides a built-in momentum for continuing rapid popula-
tion growth. According to the 1970 census, the literacy rate was 68% for 10
years or older, an increase of only two points since 1960. The slow improve-
ment of the literacy level in the last decade is due principally to the
inability of the educational system to expand rapidly enough to offset popu-
lation increases.
1.04      Despite rapid economic expansion, unemployment and underemployment
are persistent throughout the econoEy. From 1960 to 1970, the labor force
increased 3% annually with urban labor increasing by 5.5% per year. The ILO
has estimated unemployment and underemployment at 40% in the whole country, 1/ a
problem more serious than in most other Latin American countries. Since the
labor force is expanding faster than employment opportunities, high unemploy-
ment and underemployment can be expected to continue in spite of the Govern-
ment's efforts to reduce it.
1.05      Two illustrative population projections show the alternative trends
in the next quarter century under the following assumptions of fertility
decline:
Projection A:        almnst constant high fertility during
the period;
Projection B:        moderately rapid decline in the total
fertility rate to about 73% of the 1970
value by 1980, and to 47% by 2000.
1.06      In both projections, life expectancy is assumed to increase from
52 to 60 years for males and from 55 to 63 years for females by the year
2000. Projection A estimates the population trend in the absence of a
family planning program and serves as a basis to measure the fertility
reduction needed to achieve Projection B (Annex 1 contains detailed
tables). The alternative projections are as follows:
Population Projections                   Per 1000 Population
Natural
Birth Rate    Death Rate       Increase
Year   (A) Constant   (B) Declining        A      B        A     B        A    B
1970     4,000,000       4,000,000       47.5  47.5    14.5  14.5       3.3  3.3
1980     5,700,000       5,300,000       50.2  39.1    11.8  10.9        3.8  2.8
1990     8,400,000       7,000,000       47.2  33.7      9.6   9.1       3.8  2.5
2000    12,300,000       8,800,000       46.9  27.0       8.2   7.9      3.9  1.9
1/   International Labor Organization, "Ceneracion de empleo, produccion y
crecimiento economico - El caso de la Rep'ublica Dominicana,"  Geneva,
1975



-3-
1.07      These estimates serve to underline the serious implications of
delays in reducing fertility. The assumption of constant fertility up to
the year 2000 gives an upper limit of 12.3 million persons in that year --
three times that of the 1970 population figure. The lower population total
(8.8 million) would be realized if couples practised family limitation to the
extent of having almost four million fewer births during the next 24 years.
1.08      The need for fertility decline in the Dominican Republic is, there-
fore, especially urgent because of high unemployment, rising aspirations for
improved standards of living, and prospects of further improvements in life
expectancy.
II. HEALTH SERVICES
A. Background
2.01      An understanding of the health services in the Dominican Republic is
essential to assess their potential and the changes which would be required in
order that they may serve as an effective basis for the family planning services.
The Secretariat of State of Public Health and Social Assistance (SESPAS) is the
main Governmental health agency; it is responsible for providing health services
to low-income families, persons not on social security, and gersons who are not
in the Armed Forces -- approximately 68% of the population.l   However, it was
recently estimated that SESPAS delivered services to only 37% of the total
population (1.7 million in 1973). The Dominican Social Security Institute (IDSS)
provides medical services to persons on social security, the State Sugar Council
(CEA) to sugar workers and the Armed Forces to its personnel and their families
(in total, about 15% of the population). The private sector is assumed to take
care of about 17% of the country's population. The one-third of the population
not served is principally composed of low income, rural families. SESPAS has
limited trained staff and its facilities are concentrated in urban areas.
Furthermore, the nature of services rendered by the agencies differs greatly;
this is indicated by the average expenditure per person, which, in 1973, varied
from about RD$1 for CEA, and RD$7 for SESPAS, to RD$67 for the IDSS, and RD$70
for the private sector (Annex 2). Of total health expenditures on personal
health services in 1973 (RD$107 million), about 50% were in the private sector,
and only 20% were channelled through SESPAS.
2.02      Health services currently provided by SESPAS are oriented around hos-
pitals. This is an expensive means of delivering health care; over 80% of
SESPAS' expenditures in 1972-73 were for curative health care services. The
Government plans to emphasize the use of paramedical health workers operating
in simple rural clinics and paraprofessionals working in the communities.
1/ Source of information on coverage and cost of health services: USAID
Health Sector Assessment for the Dominican Republic, February 1975.



The rural clinics would be linked (via radio communication and vehicles) to
strategically located health centers and hospitals for referral of difficult
medical problems. SESPAS also plans a shift in emphasis towards preventive
health care (vaccinations, maternal and child health care and health and
nutrition education) and diagnosis of health problems at the level of the
community.
B. The Secretariat of Health
2.03      SESPAS is administered by a Secretary of Public Health and Social
Assistance, appointed by the President of the Republic. The Secretariat is
divided into two sub-secretariats -- one for Health and one for Social Assis-
tance (the organizational chart is given in Annex 3). The Secretary is ad-
vised by a Technical Council. The Pan American Health Organization (PAHO)
also provides advice.  SESPAS provides healt1  services through 244 facilities
of various types which include 84 hospitalsl with 6,945 beds, and around
160 outpatient facilities (Annex 4 presents a distribution of health facili-
ties by Region). In 1975, the staff was formed by 830 doctors, 250 registered
nurses, and about 1,300 nursing auxiliaries (elementary school plus six
months' training). There were also dver 1,000 "practical" (untrained)
nurses working in SESPAS' services; they are being upgraded through training
to nursing auxiliaires through a p-rogram that is expected to be completed by
mid-1977.2/ Both physical facilities and staff are unevenly distributed
throughout the country, concentrated in Santo Domingo and a few large urban
centers.  Most rural centers are operated by auxiliary personnel, who are
supposed to be supervised weekly by doctors or nurses; however, in most
places supervision of services is higkhly inadequate.
2.04      During the 1960's SESPAS, with help from PAHO, initiated a region-
alization plan for its health services. The country was divided into five
Health Regions and each Region was fur ther divided into areas. In late 1975,
Region IV in the Southwest was subdivided, thus creating a new Region I. The
health area, which is the basic operational unit for services, has one inte-
grated health center or base hospital -- which constitutes the headquarters
of the Area Director -- in addition to three or four sub-centers and five or
six rural clinics (an organizational chart for Regional offices is included
in Annex 10). The following table shows the structure and staffing pattern
of the comprehensive health care system being partially implemented in Health
Region II and which will be made possible through this project in Health
Regions I and V.
1/ Hospitals and other establishments with beds.
2/ As of April 1976, SESPAS had up-graded 1,060 "practical" nurses to auxiliar-
ies and it was planning to complete this training program in three more
semesters, through 18 courses of 15 students each.



-5-
Health Care
Level       Service Provided        Type of Facility        Personnel Needed
Primary     Health promotion        Rural clinics           Per Rural Clinic:
Specific protection    (1 per 12,000 pop.    1 Nursing Auxiliary
Preventive care          - 1OKm radius)        1 Clerk (assistant)
Community Organiza-   2 Medical/Nursing students
tions               1 Paraprofessional (pro-
motor/community worker)
per 450 pop.
Secondary   Supervision to pri-    Health Center            Per Health Sub-Centerl/
mary level              Health Sub-center      (30 beds/outpatient)
Early diagnosis         General Hospital       2-3 doctors
Specific treatment      ("Area" headquar-      1 Graduate nurse
ters - 1 facility      16 Nursing Auxiliaries
per 4-5 rural          7 other health profes-
clinics)                 sionals
Maintenance staff
Tertiary    Curative Services        Specialized Hospi-    Specialized Doctors
Disability limita-      tals                   General Practitioners
tion                    General Hospitals      Graduate Nurses
Nursing Auxiliaties
/  A General Hospital with a varying staffing pattern according to number of
beds, may also serve as "area" headquarters. A Health Center is an outpatient
facility located in a provincial capital with services in several medical
specialities.
2.05      Regionalization has proceeded slowly, mainly due to lack of administra-
tive capability, inadequate delegation of responsibility from the central level
to the Regions and the areas, and lack of Regional autonomy in day-to-day finan-
cial matters. In order to be fully effective it is essential that the Regional
Directors be given authority and responsibility for day-to-day management of the
health services and for implementation of the project in their respective Regions,
and be provided with an adequate budget for efficient day-to-day operations.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that it intends
to confer upon the Directors of Regions I and V the above authority and responsi-
bilities.  In addition, the Government agreed to cause the health personnel
working in such Regions to be paid wages only upon performance of their respective
assignments and to consult with the Directors of Health Regions I and V before
making any personnel appointments,transfers and dismissals and creating new
positions in their respective Regions.



- 6 -
2.06      Planning, programming, organization and management of staff and
physical resources are areas in which SESPAS requires strengthening. The
Government recognizes this need, and is taking steps to improve its manage-
ment. A Director for Administrative Reform has been recently appointed,
with some supporting staff. PAHO/WHO has provided technical assistance to
define terms of reference for management consultants and the selection of a
firm of management consultants is to be completed within a month's time, as
part of the USAID-financed health project. These actions would be requisites
for the successful extension of the experiences of the proposed project in
Regions I and V to other parts of the country.
C. Health Manpower
Existing Situation
2.07      There are five critical problems of health manpower which directly
affect the provision of family planning services:
(a) There are serious imbalances within the occupational structure of
the nursing profession -- far too few nursing auxiliaries and regis-
tered nurses;
(b) There is a severe shortage of nursing tutors, so that the capacity
for training nurses cannot be expanded significantly until more
tutors are properly trained;
(c) Physicians and registered nurses are maldistributed geographically;
they are heavily concentrated in urban hospital service, leaving
many rural posts unfilled;
(d)  Government pay scales for health personnel are very low, making it
difficult to expect full-time work, as many employees must hold
outside employment; and
(e) There is an over-production of doctors in relation to the absorptive
capacity of the present health care system; consequently, a heavy
"brain drain" wastes the educational investment.
2.08      The Government recognizes these problems and is prepared to work to-
ward satisfactory solutions within the context of existing resource limitations.
With the assistance of studies and advice from PAHO, USAID and more recently
the Bank, the Government has developed plans to: (a) step up the output of
nursing personnel of all categories, (b) establish a new intermediate category --
the technical nurse, (c) distribute nursing training facilities more evenly
throughout the country in order to encourage personnel to stay in rural areas,
and (d) assign medical and nursing students to provide six months of service in



- 7 -
rural areas as part of their training. (A description of project components
designed to assist implementation of these plans begins with para 4.12.) In
addition, as part of this project's preparation, the SESPAS entered into ar-
rangements with the Autonomous University of Santo Domingo (UASD) to conduct
a semester course (completed in November, 1975) on pedagogical methods. Twenty
tutors, needed for project activities, completed the course.
2.09      Salaries for SESPAS nursing staff were increased during 1975.  During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that it will review
the salary levels for nursing personnel from time to time and it will revise
them if necessary in order to insure: (a) that salaries will provide sufficient
incentives for people to enter and remain in the nursing profession, and (b)
that salaries are structured to provide sufficient incentive for services in
rural areas.
Physicians
2.10      Four new medical schools have been created since 1965;  consequently,
the country now has the second highest ratio of medical students to population
in Latin America (12 per 10,000). This investment is not efficient because the
country cannot absorb all graduates into the health system. Many physicians
will continue to emigrate or shift to other occupations. The Government could
take advantage of this situation by using the services of medical (and nursing)
students under a carefully planned and super-vised program. Through the pro-
posed project at least three Dominican Universities with schools of medicine
would have their medical students doing field practice in Regions I and V.
The Technological Institute of Santo Domingo (INTEC) and the Universidad
Nacional Pedro Henriquez Ureta (UNPHU) have both agreed to participate. These
universities would, on the basis of those experiences, review and if necessary
modify the curricula of their medical schools to introduce the concept of com-
munity-based health care with emphasis on preventive and family planning ser-
vices.0 During negotiations agreement was reached with the Govzernment that
within six months from the date of loan effectiveness it will sign agreements
with at least three universities to the effects described above.
Nursing Personnel
2.11      There are not enough nurses to staff health facilities adequately.  The
Government plans, with the assistance of the proposed project, to increase the
number of graduate nurses, to introduce a new category of "technical nurses"
(four years of basic secondary studies plus two years of nursing training), to
phase out the practical (untrained) nurses referred to in para. 2.03 and to in-
crease the number of nursing auxiliaries.   The existing number of nurses in
each category and the planned increase up to 1980 are given in the following
table (details on categories of nursing personnel and on training facilities
are given in Annex 5).
1/ The INTEC already has a curriculum especially oriented toward community-based
health services and it would use the field experience to make further cur-
ricular improvements as necessary.



-8-
Present      Planned Increase      Target
Nursing Categories               NuTrber        (1976-1980)        for 1980!-
Graduate (professional)
Nurses                          :368              324               692
Technical Nurses                    -                316               55921
Nursing Auxiliaries              2,068             1,240             3,308
Total                       2436              1880              4 559
1J As stated in the Health Plan for 1976-80.
2/ Due to the delay of over one year in initiating courses, the planned in-
crease is now 243 less than the original target.
2.12      The number of graduate nurses in the country (368) is the lowest per
capita in Latin America (less than one per 10,000 population compared to the
average of about 2.3 for Latin America).  Only 25-30 nurses graduate annually
from the two nursing schools (the National Nursing School (EN-E) operted by
SESPAS and the Universidad Cat6lica Madre y Maestra (UCMM).  The UASD started
a nursing school in June 1976. The Bank project would contribute 50%6of the-
annual increases needed to reach the Government's goal of about 700 graduate
nurs6s in 1980, by financing local fellowships in existing schools.
2.13      The program to train the intermediate grade of "technical nurses" is
under the Secretariat of Education as part of the Education Reform Program.
This course of study will be offered initially in one, and by 1978, in three
secondary schools. The project would support this program by providing teaching
equipment, materials and vehicles (equipment and materials for the nurses'
training program were provided under the first Bank-assisted Education Project).
2.14      Nursing auxiliaries are a key to the delivery of low-cost health ser-
vices and an expansion of the fami]y planning program.   For auxiliaries ren-
dering basic health care in rural clinics (first aid, pre-natal and pediatric
check-ups, vaccinations, family planning), a two-way radio communication system
would be provided through this project; auxiliaries could then consult the health
center or hospital and call ambulances in emergency situations.
2.15      There is a need to accelerate the training of new auxiliaries and there
are plans to increase their number from about 2,000 to 3,300 in the next five
years. This increase will require stepping up the training of graduate nurses
and technical nurses, who will be needed for supervision in increasing numbers.
It is estimated that about 230 to 270 auxiliaries will be graduating yearly be-
tween 1976 and 1980.



-9-
III. THE NATIONAL FAMILY PLAN;NING PROGRAM
A. Participating Agencies
Background
3.01      The first family planning activities in the Dominican Republic were
sponsored by the Social Action Council of the Dominican Evangelist Church in
1962. In 1966 the Dominican Association for Family Welfare (ADPBF) was for-
mally established by the same group: it soon extended family planning services
to 26 localities, using private doctors. In 1968, the Association began re-
ceiving assistance from the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF).
In that same year the Government established, by Presidential Decree, a national
family planning program intended to reduce maternal and infant mortality, abor-
tions and population growth.    A new agency, the National Council for Family
Planning (CONAPOFA), was created and, initially, made responsible for studies,
research, analysis and publication of population-related matters. A later
regulation (December 1969) gave CONAPOFA the added responsibility of advising
the SESPAS in establishing a family planning service program. Since that time,
CONAPOFA has been engaged mainly in the direct provision of those services,
using the health facilities and staff (sometimes paying them for additional
hours of work) of five Government agencies and one private organization.
3.02      Five differentGovernment agencies and one privately-sponsored agency
offer family planning services through clinics.l/ Currently (August 1976)
CONAPOFA operates, in SESPAS' facilities, about 86% of the clinics providing
family planning services. The other Government agencies offering services are
IDSS, CEA, the National Police and the Armed Forces; the private agency is ADPBF.
There are 237 family planning clinics in operation;- CONAPOFA plans to in-
crease the number of these clinics to 258 by the end of 1976. The contraceptive
methods offered in these clinics are the Intra-Uterine Device (IUD), oral con-
traceptives, condoms, foams and vaginal tablets. Clinics do not offer male or
female sterilization as methods of fertility control. There are also two Govern-
ment agencies (the Secretariat of Agriculture and the Office of Community
Development--ODC) and three voluntary organizations that are active in family
planning education and motivation work, and two national universities which pro-
vide technical and research assistance to the program.
CONAPOFA
3.03      Since its creation in 1968, CONAPOFA has been the official agency re-
sponsible for planning the population program, coordinating the activities of
all public and private agencies active in the field, and organizing family
1/ A "family planning clinic" is a health facility (hospital, health center or
rural clinic) which offers family planning services on a part-time or session
basis, in addition to other services such as care of the sick, first aid, im-
munizations, pre-natal and routine child health care and nutrition education.
2/ Of the 237 clinics in operation, 23 are in Region I, 68 in Region II, 40 in
Region III, 42 in Region IV, 25 in Region V, and 39 in the Nucleo Central
(See Annex 6, p. 5). Four of the 237 clinics are operated by doctors in
private practice.



L -
planning services within the official health delivery system. It is an inter-
agency body,II and has a full-time staff of 35 professionals organized into
four divisions:  ad7inistration; medical; research and evaluation; and informa-
tion, education, communication (IEC) and training. (Details on CONAPOFA's
Divisions are presented in Annex 6).
3.04      The Executive Secretary is appointed by the President and assumes
the total responsibility for decision-making. He has the authority to select
and discharge his staff, subject to the approval of the President.  Insuffi-
cient delegation of responsibility has, in the past, hampered effective func-
tioning of the organization as well as limited opportunities for the CONAPOFA
staff to exercise initiative and responsibility in its work. The need to im-
prove internal coordination and to promote staff morale has been recognized
by the Executive Secretary. Management consultants were recently engaged to
develop a reliable system that would minimize these organizational constraints.
The appointment of a full-time administrative officer in late 1974 was another
positive step.
3.05      CONAPOFA's Medical Division at the central level is responsible for
providing technical supervision for the clinical family planning work of all
medical and paramedical personnel.   The regional supervisory team consists of
one doctor, one nurse and one social assistant who report to the National Medi-
cal Division Supervisors. Better cooperation between the CONAPOFA supervisory
teams and the health personnel of SESPAS is needed.
3.06      CONAPOFA's Evaluation Division focuses on assessing the impact of the
family planning program. A new statistical system, developed with UNFPA finan-
cing, has enabled CONAPOFA to identify priorities in establishing new clinics.
The Research Division is responsible for undertaking studies to help establish
program priorities, research on the effectiveness of various communication stra-
tegies and research on attitudes towqard birth control methods.   There is a need
for considerable expansion of this D)ivision's activities. This project will
enable the development of a research plan and the implementation of research
activities, including the analysis of data from the National Fertility Survey.
3.07      Since ADPBF is the agency primarily involved in information, educa-
tion and communication (IEC) services for the national family planning program,
the new IEC/Training Division of COIZAPOFA is assuming a complementary role, and
will coordinate the activities of ADPBF with other agencies as the IEC services
expand. Administration of the training and motivation programs in family plan-
ning is also the function of this Division. Since its establishment, CONAPOFA,
1/ The members are the Secretary oi Health (Chairman); the Secretaries of Labor,
Agriculture and Education; the Executive Director of the ADPBF; the Director
of the Maternal and Child Health Division of SESPAS; and the Executive Secre-
tary of CONAPOFA.



- 11 -
initially with the assistance of ADPBF, has trained 907 health personnel in
family planning; this is approximately 16% of the existing health personnel.
Due to limited financial and human resources, training in family planning pro-
ceeded at a slow pace during the first seven years of the program. Conse-
quently, the backlog to be trained was about 6,000 in 1976. The Bank project
would support CONAPOFA's training and motivational activities.
Agencies Working in Motivation-Education
3.08      The ODC and the Secretariat of Agriculture participate in community
development programs through their social promoters and extension workers.
With the assistance of CONAPOFA for training, and under its coordination, they
are starting to engage in some motivational work for family planning.
3.09      Three private organizations are making important contributions to
the program.   Their family planning activities, however, are limited by mana-
gerial and financial constraints. The ADPBF operates a nation-wide radio pro-
gram on responsible parenthood and family planning, and handles production of
material for IEC purposes. The National Institute for Sex Education (INES) is
mainly responsible for sex education, including family planning, for teachers,
community leaders, parents and students.
3.10      In 1971, the Social Service of Dominican Churches (SSID) (an organi-
zation affiliated with the Church World Service, which includes the
Evangelist Church) adopted a policy in support of family planning activities
In 1972, it started a program of motivation/education and community-based dis-
tribution of contraceptives in three provinces. The Bank project would finance
operating costs for a community-based distribution of contraceptives program to
be implemented by the SSID under the supervision of CONAPOFA.
B. Program Financing
Family Planning Program
3.11      Before the establishment of CONAPOFA, the then-existing private
family planning activities were funded almost entirely by external private
grant assistance, some of which continues (e.g., ADPBF received over US$180,000
in 1972 -- and the SSID, over US$37,000 in 1974 -- from the Family Planning
International Association). USAID provided US$572,000 to the Government in 1968
and US$97,000 in 1970. In addition, in 1969, USAID. signed a US$7.1 million
health loan to assist the expansion of maternal and child health services
(para. 3.13).
3.12      In June 1973, UNFPA signed an agreement with the Government for a
grant of US$1.9 million for a four-year Program of support to the national
family planning program. Under this agreement the Government is contributing
counterpart funds of an equal amount. The Population Council, New York, is
providing advisers to CONAPOFA in evaluation and medical services for this pro-
ject.



- 12 -
USAID Health Assistance
3.13      The 1969 US$7.1 million USAID health loan helped finance construc-
tion of health facilities for SESPAS (47% of total loan), equipment (31%),
training (15%), technical assistance (3%), special studies (2%) and mass
media programs (2%). The principal problems encountered by this project were
related to programming and management.   The phasing of the construction of
clinical facilities with staff training was not well coordinated; this re-
sulted in understaffing of new facilities. In addition, clinics were often
not located near the people they were to serve and construction took con-
siderably longer than planned.
3.14      Funds from the loan were used in 1974 for a Health Sector Assessment.
It was carried out by a group of Dominicans and several USAID advisers, and
resulted in a comprehensive report published in February 1975. This assessment,
undertaken almost concurrently with the preparation and appraisal of the pro-
posed project, has been an important contribution to the understanding of the
current health/family planning situation in the Dominican Republic; its findings,
conclusions, and recomnendations provided a useful background for the final
formulation of this project. They were also used by USAID to define the health
project to be financed by the new loan (signed in October 1975 for US$4.8 mil-
lion) aimed at:
(a) Low-cost primary health care through the use of lay workers;
(b)  A nutrition program including nutrition education, which would
have as priority target groups young children and pregnant women
(this component is attached to the Secretariat of Agriculture);
(c) A sample collection of vital statistics designed to improve the
statistical information system; and
(d) Various technical assistance and training activities designed to
assist the Government in the reorganization of SESPAS (along the
lines specified in Annex 8, Section A, III) and conducive to an
effective health delivery system.
3.15      The proposed Bank-assisted project and the activities of other donors
are all parts of the comprehensive Government family planning and health pro-
gram. Coordination among donors has been effected through close and frequent
consultations. Particularly, complementarity between the USAID project and the
proposed Bank project has been discussed in detail between the staffs of the
institutions.
C. Fami-ly Planning Program Performance
3.16      At the start of its activities, CONAPOFA established explicit de-
mographic objectives. However, events have shown that these were far too op-
timistic, even after subsequent revision. For example, CONAPOFA's First Five-
Year Plan (1969-73) targeted a decline in the birth rate from 47 to 38 per thousand.
Early in 1973, the goal was reset as a birth rate of 42 per thousand by the end



- 13 -
of that year. The study of the health sector by USAID in 1974 estimated the
birth rate in 1973 at 45. While the original plan called for 20% of women
in fertile ages to be using contraceptives by 1973, after four years of
operation this target was pushed forward to 1976. Even this revision seems
far beyond reach in view of a recent (June 1975) finding that only about 6.5%
of the fertile women were active users of family planning services.
3.17      There are many constraints to family planning in the Dominican
Republic which help explain the present low practice of contraception. The
country is still predominantly rural, educational levels are low, infant mor-
tality is high, and marriages and common-law unions occur at an early age; all
of these factors contribute to high fertility rates. The great majority of
women live in areas where they do not have ready access to services, and where
services are accessible, hours are often inconvenient, waiting periods are long,
and the choice of methods somewhat restricted. There is in all likelihood
an unmet demand for family planning services in the country.
3.18      During the first two years of the program about 40% of the new ac-
ceptors selected IUDs, another 40% the pill, and about 20% other less effec-
tive methods. In recent years, pills have been the method chosen by the major-
ity of new acceptors.  In the last semester of 1975, only 8% of-the new accep-
tors chose the IUD. This trend is unfavorable to program performance since the
IUD has proved to be the most effective form of contraception among reversible
methods.   Trained personnel and suitable clinic facilities are needed for IUD
insertion and a shortage of these has influenced the choice of devices among
new acceptors.
3.19      The strategy that would most likely lead to better program performance
would be to increase the supply of maternal and child health (MCH) services and
facilities, through which pre-natal and post-partum family planning would be
emphasized. This would include enforcing the eight-hour a day regulation for
clinic services, making the clinic hours more convenient, expanding the number
of service points, and training staff in both human relations and dinical pro-
cedures.   The extension of service points and the strict enforcement of eight-
hour clinic sessions is directly related to the need for additional personnel,
particularly nursing personnel and facilities, which the proposed project would
help provide.
3.20      In view of the scarcity of doctors in rural areas, CONAPOFA has re-
cently, with the assistance of the Population Council and UNFPA, introduced the
utilization of paramedical staff for direct family planning services. During
1974, it provided a few nurses with special training to prescribe the pill and
insert IUDs. More graduate nurses and nursing auxiliaries need to be trained to
extend the family planning services to a greater portion of the population. The
proposed Bank loan would assist by helping to finance training, equipment,
materials and facilities.



- 14 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives and Strategy
4.01      This three-year project is designed to assist the Government in
developing a comprehensive health/family planning program that would, in the
long run, significantly reduce the rate of population growth while enhan-
cing the health and welfare of the population, particularly of mothers and
children living in rural and semi-rural areas. The lack of a viable organiza-
tional structure for the delivery of basic health services has been a serious
constraint to the establishment of a strong family planning program. In
September 1973, the SESPAS proposed a health policy stating the objective of
shifting the emphasis from curative to preventive health activities, giving
priority to the most vulnerable population groups (defined as children under
15 and mothers) and giving more facilities to the rural population, rather
than continuing the concentration on hospital-oriented curative services prin-
cipally in the urban areas.   This shift would result in an improved health
status of the population, which would in turn produce considerable savings in
curative services.
4.02      In order to accomplish a reorientation of the existing health pro-
grams, the Government has decided to expand SESPAS' existing services and
facilities, extending them outward from the urban centers, and to develop simul-
taneously niew channels outside of SESPAS for delivering health services to the
village level by drawing on such groups as the National Malaria Eradication
Service and CONAPOFA. Additional rural clinics would be built by SESPAS and
staffed with trained auxiliary health workers who would go from the clinics
into the villages both to educate people in preventive health measures and to
treat the sick. The USAID loan to the Dominican Republic, signed in October
1975, includes the financing of a low-cost community health program trying to
provide preventive health services to the rural village population using prin-
cipally semi-autonomous organizations such as the National Malaria Eradication
Service. These activities will be absorbed within the regular SESPAS services
when those have developed the requisite managerial and administrative capabili-
ties.
4.03      The proposed project would support the expansion and improvement of
SESPAS' facilities and services focusing on Health Regions I and V, as a first
step to a nation-wide improved comprehensive health delivery system (Annex 7
describes the concept of comprehensive health care).
4.04      In order to implement the shift of emphasis from curative to preven-
tive services (including family planning) in Regions I and V and to prepare for
future extension to the other Health Regions, the proposed project would include
components at the national level intended to: (a) increase significantly the
number and quality of nursing personnel, (b) assist CONAPOFA to establish im-
mediately a strong program of staff training and public motivation in family



- 15 -
planning in the whole country, and (c) assist local universities in reviewing
and making relevant modifications in the curricula of health professions, and
in undertaking training in health administration and other continuing education
programs for health/family planning staff.
4.05      The Government recognizes the need for reorganizing and considerably
strengthening SESPAS at the central level as a requisite for expanding health
services and for replicating the experiences of Regions I and V in other Regions
of the country, as well as for making effective use of other international assis-
tance in community health services and family planning.   Changes in SESPAS'
structure would include the creation of a planning and programming department
under which one unit for human resources and another for planning physical facil-
ities would be located. Also,. the staff and functions of the Maternal and
Child Health Unit would be expanded. In late 1975, SESPAS appointed a senior
official to direct the planning of the reorganization. As a first step, SESPAS,
with the assistance of PAHO/WHO and in fulfillment of USAID loan requirements,
has defined advisory service needs in administration and has received proposals
from several management consultant firms. The selection of the firm which will
advise them in the administrative reform will be completed in one month's time.
Financing for these activities is provided through the USAID health loan (see
Annex 8, Section A, III). During negotiations, assurances were received from
the Government that it intends to continue pursuing these activities and to im-
plement its reorganization no later than one year after loan effectiveness.
B. Project Components
4.06      The project consists of the following specific components:
I. Clinical Services and Facilities
(a)  In Regions I and V, construction, equipment and furniture for
eleven rural clinics in Region I and for one health sub-center
and 15 rural clinics in Region V;
(b) In Regions I and V, radio-communication equipment to connect rural
clinics and sub-centers with hospitals and ambulance services, and
about 35 vehicles;
(c) In Regions I and V, travel allowances for medical and nursing super-
visory staff, nominal allowances for auxiliaries working in difficult
areas and allowances for medical and nursing students posted in rural
clinics;
(d) Operating costs for a program of community-based distribution
of contraceptives in rural areas and urban slums (partly in Regions I
and V), to be implemented by the SSID under the supervision of CONAPOFA;



- 16 -
(e)  At the central level, project preparation and Project Implementa-
tion Unit expenses; and
(f) Technical Assistance-l/
(i)  Twelve man-months of senior and 12 man-months of associate
advisory services to the Regional Directors of Health Regions I
and V, for administration and for estabLishing a statistical
information and program evaluation system;
(ii)  Twelve man-months of senior and 12 man-months of associate ad-
visory services to the local universities, the Regional Health
Directors and the medical and nursing supervisors of Regions I
and V, for the management and operation of re-oriented compre-
hensive community health/family planning services;
(iii)  Ten man-tmonths of senior advisory services and 36 man-months -of
research services to CONAPOFA and local universities, to design
and carry out research on the determination of additi  a  pro-
gram efforts, effectiveness of various strategies and determi-
nants of reproductive behavior and to analyse the data from the
National Fertility Survey;
(iv)  Twenty-four man-months of advisory services to the Project
Director, to design a study for evaluating utilization of
buildings, to establish procurement procedures, and to organize
a training program in maintenance; and
(v) External auditing services.
II. Training Activities
(a) Nursing and Auxiliary Personnel Creation:
(i)  850 six-month fellowships for basic training21f of auxiliaries
in the national Nursing Auxiliary Training Centers (CAAEs);
(ii)  440 two-year fellowships for basic training of technical nurses
in secondary schools (liceos);
(iii)  168 three-year fellowships for basic training of graduate nurses
in national nursing schools;
(iv)  Four minibuses (to be assigned to nursing schools and liceos,
through SESPAS);
(v)  Equipment and teaching material for three national nursing
schools; and
1/ Terms of reference for consultants are presented in Annex 8, Section A,I.
2/ Basic training refers to officiaLly-approved programs leading to a degree
or qualification.



- 17 -
(vi) Equipment, teaching materials and books for the Nursing
Auxiliary Training Centers and for three courses for techni-
cal nurses in national   liceos.
(b) Comprehensive Health Care and Family Planning Training:
(i) Audiovisual equipment and teaching material for CONAPOFA's
family planning training program in each of the six Health
Regions;
(ii)  Six vehicles for CONAPOFA;
(iii) Travel allowances for six new Regional training coordinators
of CONAPOFA and their staff; and
(iv)  Travel allowances and fees for tutors and lecturers for courses
and seminars given by SESPAS, CONAPOFA and other agencies.l/
(c) Technical Assistance:
(i) Ten man-months of advisory services to national medical schools,
to revise curricula to include comprehensive community health
care and family planning, and to national nursing schools, to
reorient their programs to make them responsive to the country's
needs; and
(ii) Four 12-month fellowships abroad and six months of study tours,
to SESPAS' and CONAPOFA's planning and programming staff.
C. Detailed Project Features
Experimental Community Health Program in Regions I and V
4.07      In view of the shortage and uneven distribution of health personnel
in the country and the constraints imposed by the lack of a viable organizational
structure for the delivery of basic health care, the service and physical facil-
ities components of the project would concentrate, as an initial stage, in
Health Regions I and V,2/ to implement the integration of family planning services
with an effective health system (rather than attempting to cover the entire
country at one time). These Regions were selected by the Government because they
are currently the most deficient in adequate health facilities; / a large propor-
tion (an estimated 40%) of the nearly one million people living in these two Regions
1/ A detailed list of courses is presented in Annex 8, Section B.
2/ Health Region I, recently created by subdividing the previous Region IV into
two parts, isin the Southwest, bordering with Haiti, and comprises the fol-
lowing provinces: Estrelleta, San Juan, Azua and Peravia. Health Region V
includes the east side of the country and is formed by the provinces of San
Pedro de Macoris, El Seibo, La Romana and La Altagracia.
3/ In Region I, SESPAS operates six hospitals, five sub-centers and eleven rural
clinics; IDSS operates three polyclinics. In Region V, SESPAS operates six
hospitals, six sub-centers, six rural clinics and two health centers; IDSS
operates two hospitals and one polyclinic.



- 18 -
do not have access to any health service. Furthermore, the extension of ser-
vices through the project, particularly in Region I, would complement current
national plans for integrated regional development. The Office for National
Planning (ONAPLAN) is now working, with UNDP assistance, on the design for a
program of integrated rural development in the Southwest, which requires the
concerted efforts of several sectors (i.e., agriculture, education, health,
etc.); within that framework, the project is welcomed as a needed complement
by ONAPLAN and the UNDP.-
4.08      Both Regions are predominantly rural, with high birth rates. Region I,
with about half a million population has two towns with around 40,000 inhabi-
tants each and one with 30,000 inhabi.tants.   The rest of the population live in
small towns of less than 10,000. The Region is backward and agriculturally poor.
However, most of the typical Dominican crops (except for sugar cane) can be
grown under irrigation in this Region, and extensive areas have good potential
for considerably improved production with proper irrigation and application of
efficient farming techniques. The present plans for integrated development
take this potential into account. Region V, in the Southeast, is characterized
by a concentration of sugar plantations and the presence of transient Haitian
workers who come to cut sugar cane. The socio-economic status of a large part
of the population is low. Region V contains one city of about 80,000 people,
four large towns of about 30,000-40,000 each, and seven small towns of perhaps
3,500 each. The remaining 200,000 population live in rural locations and do
not have access to any health services.
4.09      Under the proposed project, eleven rural health clinics in Region I
and 15 rural health clinics and one health sub-center in Region V would be
built, equipped and staffed to serve selected rural locations. Each of the two
Health Regions would be provided with a two-way radio communication system.
The sub-center would consist of an out-patient unit and a maternity ward with
30 beds, staffed with two or three doctors, one graduate nurse, 16 nursing
auxiliaries, seven other health professionals (e.g., pharmacist, laboratory
technicians, dentist), one statistician, and support and maintenance staff;
it would provide outpatient consultation eight hours daily, for sick people,
prenatal and child health care, immunizations, family planning advice and ser-
vices and nutrition demonstrations. Living accommodations for the doctors and
nurses would be part of the compound. The sub-center, to be located in a city
of 40,000 (Hato Mayor), would have a daily workload of 100-120 persons; of-this
number it is expected that 50% to 60% would be women and children. Family plan-
ning talks would be given by a promoter to women visiting the sub-center for
any reason. In addition, family planning services would be available during
all hours of clinic service.
4.10      The 26 rural clinics would be located in villages of about 2,500 to
3,000 persons living within a 5 Km radius and about 12,000 persons in a 10 Km
radius. Each clinic would be staffed by a nursing auxiliary, an assistant who
would also be in charge of keeping records, and two full-time resident medical
students who would give both curative and preventive care. Housing for the staff



- X 9 -
would also be provided.   These clinics would be open eight hours a day to
the public and would provide first aid and treatment for simple cases and
the following preventive services: pre-natal and routine pediatric checkups,
family planning services and vaccinations. The workload would be about 40
patients daily, of which it is expected that 50% to 60% would be women and
children.   The project would provide travel allowances to doctors and nurses
for supervision visits, nominal allowances to auxiliaries working in rural
clinics and living allowances to medical and nursing students posted in rural
clinics.   The auxiliaries would keep the clinics open eight hours daily and
would undertake preventive health care and family planning work in the com-
munity. During negotiations, the Governmentagreed to cause the SESPAS, in
consultation with the Directors of- Health Regions I and V, to staff adequately
the facilities included in-the project with trained and qualified personnel.
It also agreed that it will pay wages only to the staff that are performing
duties in their assigned posts, and will assume all recurrent costs during the
project period , and for at least 15 years thereafter, as required for the ef-
ficient operation of its health services.
4.11      Staff from both types of facilities would undertake home visits -- pre-
ventive health work -- on a rotational basis. Each staff member could take
care of 50 to 75 households, visiting each home an average of 1.5 times per
month. They would: (a) maintain a simple record of the members of each family;
(b) promote family planning and issue contraceptives (condoms and pills); (c)
weigh pre-school children each month; (d) promote child feeding and hydration
guided by a weight chart; (e) assemble children and others for immunization at
annual intervals; and (f) refer patients to medical facilities as required.l/
IUDs would be inserted by supervisory staff (doctors, nurses) who would visit
the rural clinics weekly. Field workers from the ODC, the CEA, the Dominican
Agrarian Institute and the Department of Agricultural Extension of the Secretariat
of Agriculture would act as health and family planning promoters and would perform
a part of the above-listed functions to assist the health staff, by coordinating
the home visits with them. The distribution of families and motivational func-
tions between the promoters and the health staff would need to be clearly de-
fined to avoid duplication and overlap. The monthly work schedules would be
prepared by the health team with the assistance of their supervisor.   The com-
munity-based health system in Regions I and V would be monitored and evaluated
through an information system to be established through this project. Techni-
cal advisory services would also be provided. (Terms of reference for techni-
cal assistance for the management and operation of this community diagnosis
program are included in Annex 8.) During negotiations the Goverrment agreed
to take the necessary measures to cause the above-mentioned agencies to parti-
cipate in the project.
1/ Basic to all these services is educating the people to assume more respon-
sibilities for their personal, family and community health.   The staff
could increasingly involve community leaders, on a volunteer basis, to
assume some of the above-mentioned functions.



- 20 -
4.12      Several medical schoolsi} have indicated their willingness to par-
ticipate in a program with the SESPAS which would consist of fielding their
medical students for specific periods to provide health services following
the concept of community-based health care. They would also use these ex-
periences to review and, if necessary, revise their curricula. During nego-
tiations, agreement was reached with the Government that, within six months
after loan effectiveness, the Government would enter into agreements with at
least three Dominican universities with medical schools to undertake, inter
alia:
(i) to assign their medical students for field practice in Regions I
and V for such- periods of time as shall be necessary to ensure
the continuity of the health services in such Regions;
(ii) to train SESPAS' field personnel in community-based health
services; and
(iii) to review and, if necessary, to revise the curricula in their
medical schools to reflect the emphasis on preventive and com-
munity health services including maternal and child health care.
4.13      UCMM's Nursing School has indicated interest in participating in a
similar program with their nursing students. During' negotiations, agreement
was reached with the Government that, within six months after loan effective-
ness, the Government would enter into an agreement with at least one Dominican
university with a nursing school, whereby such university shall undertake inter
alia:
(i) to assign its nursing students to work in rural clinics for such
periods of time as shall be necessary to ensure the continuity of
health services in rural areas; and
(ii) to review and, if necessary, to revise the curricula in its nursing
school to introduce the concept of community-based health care,
emphasizing preventive serviees, including maternal and child
health care.
4.14      The Government also agreed during negotiations to cause SESPAS' nursing
school (ENE) to undertake the actions indicated in para. 4.13 (i) in Regions I
and V and to undertake the steps indicated in para. 4.13 (ii).
4.15      About 40 medical and 20 nursing students would be working in Regions
I and V at all times. Third-year medical students from t-he Instituto Tecnol6-
gico de Santo Domingo (INTEC) and medical and nursing graduates from the other
schools would do their field experience working in rural clinics and sub-centers
providing comprehensive curative and preventive care (including family planning)
1/   The interested schools at the time of the Bank missions were the INTEC and
the UNPHU.



-21 -
together with the nursing auxiliary as explained in para. 4.11. The facul-
ties of the universities would provide supervision to students and contribute
to retraining SESPAS field personnel in community health.   The project would
provide housing for a totdl of 60 students in 26 rural clinics and one sub-
center.
4.16      The project activities described above (paras. 4.11-4.1j5 would assist
in the provision of comprehensive community health and family planning services
to about 200,000 people (or 33,000 families) by end-l977, abou-t500,0O0 pje6ople (or
82,500 families) by end-1978  and about 800,000 people (or 134,000 families)
by end-1981. The benefits of the project would reach 90% of the Regions'
rural population and parts of urban and suburban areas (see paras. 6.01-6.05
for estimated project effects). Family planning activities would (a) by end-
1977 reach directly 40,000 fertile women of whom 6,000 (15%) would be expected
to be contraceptive users;  (b) by end-1978 it would reach directly 100,000
fertile women of whom 22,000 (22%) would be expected to use family planning;
and (c) by end-1979 it would be reaching 120,000 women of whom 30,000 (25%)
would be using the serviees. The crude birth rate in the two Regions would be
expected to decrease from 47 in 1973 to 41 in 1980 mainly as a direct result of
these services.
Training and Research Proiect Activities of National Scope
4.17      Several components of national scope have been included in the pro-
posed project to facilitate the future expansion of an effective health and
family planning service delivery system throughout the entire country.  These
components are intended to:
(a)  Alleviate the shortages of nursing personnel by almost doubling
their number by '1980;
(b)  Reorient the medical and nursing students to enable national uni-
versities to graduate'nurses and physicians who will 'be better pre-
pared to meet the country's service needs; and
(c)  Strengthen the current family planning training, motivation and
research programs of CONAPOFA so that this agency will be able to 
make a full contribution to an expanded delivery system in two to
three years' time.
4.18      In order to alleviate the shortage of nursing personnel in the
country, the proposed project would provide equipment, teaching material, books,
vehicles and about 168 fellowships of three-year duration to increase the pro-
duction of graduate nurses in the national schoolsl' from an annual output of
40 graduates in 1976, to 70 by 1979 (Annex 5, Table 3 gives details on grad-
uate nurse projections). SESPAS is currently unable to fill all vacancies for
graduate nurse positions; this increased production would easily be absorbed by -
the Government (SESPAS, IDSS) and the private sector.
1/ There are now three nursing schools - one in Santiago, in the Universidad
Catolica Madre y Maestra; one under SESPAS, the Escuela Nacional de Enfer-
merfa; a third school started in June 1976, at the Universidad Aut6noma de
Santo Domingo. The SESPAS school might eventually (1978-79) be absorbed by
two universities; this is being planned in an orderly manner, so that it will
not affect the production of nurses. Equipment and resources from that school
would in time be transferred to the respective universities by the SESPAS.



- 22 -
4.19      The project would also assist in producing sufficient numbers of
technical nurses, a new category of nursing professional to be trained in
liceos in a two-year course, after four years of secondary education (see
para. 2.13). To this end, the project would finance equipment, teaching
material, and vehicles for initiating courses in three liceos during 1977-
79, and 440 two-year fellowships for candidates from areas where this per-
sonnel is needed.
4.20      Nursing auxiliaries are a key to the delivery of low-cost health
services and the expansion of the family planning program. The production of
this personnel would be stepped up through this project (from 200 completing
the six-month course in 1976, to 270 in future years). The project would
finance 850 fellowships of six-months' duration for the students in the CAAEs
and would provide these centers with equipment, teaching material and vehi-
cles.
4.21      As part of this project's preparation, the SESPAS entered into ar-
rangements with the UASD, which conducted a semester course (completed in
November 1975) in pedagogical methods to prepare 20 tutors needed for all the
training activities described above.,
4.22      During negotiations, the Governmentagreed to take the necessary
measures to ensure that each fellowship recipient described in paras. 4.18-4.20
signs a contract with SESPAS to the effect that, upon completion of the studies,
the recipient will work in the services of that agency, in the location agreed
at the moment of contract signing, for a period of at least two years; the
contract will specify that failure to fulfill this obligation would result in
cancellation of the fellowship and obligation to repay the cost of the fellow-
ship to the Government.i
4.23      During negotiations, the Goverrnment agreed that during the period of
five years starting January 1, 1977, it will create positions within SESPAS for
graduate and technical nurses, throughout the country, but mainly in rural areas,
such that employment is ensured for the graduates of the fellowship program in-
cluded in the project.
4.24      The universities participating in the proposed project should be able
to translate the experiences of the health-based community program of Regions I
and V into suitable curricula for all their medical and nursing students. The
agreements referred to in paras. 4.12 and 4.13 (that would be signed by SESPAS
with the universities participating in the project ) should contain provisions to the
effect that those universities would review and, it necessary, modify curricula as
appropriate. In order to assist in this curriculum modification, the proposed
project would finance ten man-mnonths of technical advisory services under terms
of reference included in Annex 8.



- 23 -
4.25.     As noted, the project would include components intended to com-
plement the current family planning training, motivational and research pro-
grams of CONAPOFA to enable this agency to Tmake a full contribution to an ex-
panded delivery system.   The proposed project would finance courses on com-
munity health care and family planning for about 400 community development and
other field workers throughout the country which would be implemented by ODC,
the CEA, the Dominican Agrarian Institute and the Department of Agricultural
Extension of the Secretariat of Agriculture, with assistance from CONAPOFA.
After this training the field workers would be motivators within the communities
where they perform their regular development work. They would also incor-
porate population and family planning as topics in group discussions, through
which they would reach over 130,000 persons, including military personnel and
community leaders from all over the country.
4.26      One important function of CONAPOFA as the coordinating agency of the
national family planning program is the administration of training and motiva-
tion programs. Since its establishment in 1968, CONAPOFA has trained 570 staff.
The backlog not trained was over 6,000 in 1976. This function has been ham-
pered by over-centralization and lack of staff. This agency should have field
staff to plan, organize, monitor and, if necessary, conduct family planning
training programs for the different agencies. In response to this need, the
proposed project would finance travel allowances for six family planning train-
ing coordinators and their staff; a team would be assigned to each of the six
Health Regions in the country. The functions of the coordinators and their
staffs would include:
(a) assessing family planning training needs for all agencies in the
respective Region;
(b) defining the roles of the various categories of personnel in family
planning and the skills they would need to acquire and set priorities;
(c) helping to prepare and organize and, if necessary, conduct training
programs under guidelines provided by CONAPOFA; and
(d) evaluating training programs.
4.27      The proposed project would also include financial assistance to CONAPOFA
for conducting one national and nine regional seminars to facilitate discussions
on population and family planning among teachers of normal schools (teachers of
teachers) throughout the country. These seminars would be conducted during the
three years of the project for about 300 teachers in anticipation of the eventual
introduction of family life and population education in schools.   The decision
for the timing of these latter activities rests with the Government through its
Secretariat of Education.
4.28 ,   As explained in para. 4.02 the Government has decided to expand
SESPAS existing services, extendingithem outward from the urban centers and
shifting the emphasis from curative to preventive health activities, giving



-24-
priority to the most vulnerable groups (defined as children under 15 years
and mothers). It has also decided to develop new channels -- through the USAID
loan -- using lay health promotors. However, the implementation of this
policy nation-wide will take at least five years. In the meantime, in order
to make family planning services available immediately in selected rural and
urban slum areas not covered by hea'lth services, this project would finance
the program of a private organization -- the SSID -- for community-based dis-
tribution of contraceptives (CBD) using voluntary lay distributors (details of
this.component are presented in Annex 9). As health services become available
in the areas served by the CBD program, the latter would transfer its regular
family planning u4sers to the Governmient program and it would, move its activi-
ties to other localities lacking basic health aervices. In January 1977, the
CBD program would begin in 200 local.ities of over 2,000 population, loca-
ted in eight provinces (four of which form part of the project areIas).  -the ad-
ministration of the CBD program consists of a Program Director; 1 medical ad-
visor, 1 assistant to the Director, I secretary and 8 provincial coordinators
(11 salaried staff); and 200 voluntary distributors who receive, as incentive,
15 cents per contraceptive unit sold at 25 cents each (1 pill cycle, 1 foam can,
12 condoms). Contraceptives are donated to the program by the Church World
Service.   The CBD program is now serving about 9,000 regular users.  The goal
for the program, as part of this project, would be to recruit 125 nlew acceptors
per province, monthly, and to serve the regular users. The objectives of this
component are:
(a) To distribute non-clinical contraceptives without professional
supervision;
(b) To distribute pills prescribed by doctors or paramedical personnel
and to refer cases to CONAPOFA/SESPAS' clinics;
(c) To distribute all types of contraceptives to private family planning
services located in child care and nutrition clinics spo'nsored by
the SSID;
(d)  To distribute all types of contraceptives to the famil y planning
services operating in medical outpatient clinics sponsored by the
SSID; and
(e) To promote family planning voluntary services among private doctors,
nurses and auxiliaries.
4.29      During negotiations the Government agreed to enter into an agreement
with the Social Service of Dominican Churches (SSID) to the effect that th.at
agency will undertake a program of community-based distribution of-contracep-
tives and promotion of family planning methods in pre-selected areas of the
country not covered by basic health services.



- 25 -
4.30      As noted, the proposed project includes construction of and equip-
ment and vehicles for 27 health service facilities in Regions I and V. At
the present time there is no system of maintenance of health facilities and
equipment in the country. In order to ensure proper maintenance of build-
ings and equipment, both in the case of the new project and existing health
facilities, and in anticipation of future expansions of the system, the pro-
posed project would provide technical assistance for organization of in-ser-
vice training in maintenance for six engineers (one in each Health Region)
and other related health staff, under terms of reference presented in Annex 8.
Maintenance functions within SESPAS would be institutionalized and would be-
come a permanent activity under the responsibility of a future "Physical
Facilities Planning and Maintenance Division" (para. 5.10 and Annex 10).
Research and Evaluation
4.31      CONAPOFA recently created Evaluation and Research Divisions (para.
3.06 and Annex 6). A new statistical system has been established to collect,
process and analyze family planning information from clinics.   The new system
represents a considerable improvement over the original system. The Research
Division is responsible for undertaking studies to help establish program
priorities and research on the effectiveness of various communication stra-
tegies and on attitudes toward birth control methods.  However, there is con-
siderable latitude for expanding this Division's functions to make full use of
research capabilities available in national universities. The project would
include technical advisory services for assisting CONAPOFA and local universi-
ties to prepare a research program for the former and to design research
focused on studying, inter alia: (a) sociological factors bearing on-the health/
family planning delivery system; (b) the impact of various economic conditions
on that system; (c) the effectiveness of the health team under various stra-
tegies for delivering health/family planning services; and (d) the degree of
utilization of health facilities (both existing and new) with a-view to more
efficient criteria for location and design for future facilities. The project
would finance implementation of research projects in these areas, as well as
an analysis of the data from the National Fertility Survey.
4.32      For evaluation of the family planning program and the project, re-
spectively, the proposed project would rely on the present statistical system
of CONAPOFA and the new health statistical system to be initiated in Regions
I and V.  During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will con-
tinue to carry out the evaluation of its family planning program through the
CONAPOFA's statistical system and that it will augment the information from
that system with surveys as appropriate to achieve the following:
(a)  An evaluation of program efforts or inputs (including personnel-
hours, cost, contraceptives distributed);
(b)  An evaluation of intermediate results against the Government's estab-
lished targets (including number of acceptors, continuing users,
active clients, couple-years of protection);



- 26 -
(c) Evaluation of program efficiency (relation of intermediate re-
sults to various physical or financial inputs represented by
cost per person served, per acceptor, etc.);  and
(d)  Evaluation of effect on fertility decline, as measured by age-
specific fertility rates.
4.33      Provisions for evaluating the project activities in Regions I and V
are described in para. 4.11 and in Annex 8, Section A , I.
4.34      This project would finance an evaluation study of project facilities
and programs to be initiated by July 1977, which would also serve as a basis
for the design of facilities needed for further expansion of the system. The
main objective of this evaluation wculd be to relate capital and operating
costs to: (a) staffing patterns and worktime, (b) facilities used for various
functions, and (c) the amount of services delivered.   The terms of reference
for this study are given in Annex 8, Section A , I.
V. PROJECT COST. FINANCING. DISBURSEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Cost
5.01      Total project costs are estimated at US$7.5 million equivalent, dis-
tributed as shown in the following table. Detailed project costs are shown
in Annexes 11 and 12.
5.02      The estimates of construction cost are based on data prepared by Govern-
ment agencies, discussions with professional associations and recent experience
of private firms and foreign aid agencies. Allowances have been included for
provincial differences.   Ten percent of the base-line cost of construction and
equipment as of June 1976 has been allowed for physical contingencies. Allowances
were also made for price escalation during the project period; price escalation
rates estimated for construction and related fees are 13% for 1976 and 12% yearly
for 1977-79.  For furniture, equipment, special equipment, training and super-
vision costs, the price escalation rates are 9% for 1976 and 8% yearly for 1977-79.



- 27 -
Dominican Republic - Population and Family Health Pro ject
Proiect Costs
(in thousands      IUS$ = lRD$)
Local    Foreign   Total    FEC
I. Civil Works
A.  Sitework and Construction
1 Health Sub-Center                          390       168        558
26 Rural Clinics (Regions I and V)           852       365      1.217
Sub-Total A                                1,242       533      1,775      30%
B.  Professional fees                            203        -          203      0%
C.  Furniture and Equipment                      241        311       552      56%
Sub-Total I                                1,686       844      2,530      33%
II. Non-Construction Components
D.  Special lEquipment                           -          401       401    100%
E.  Vehicles                                     -          298        298    100%
F.  Technical Assistance
SESPAS                                      9       270        279
CONAPOFA                                   75        29        104
Sub-Total F                                   84       299        383      78%
G. Prpject Preparation, Travel and Adminis-
trative Costs
ki)  Project preparation                    113        -          113       0%
(ii)  Travel allowances                       433       -          433       0%
(iii)  Tutors' fees; students' stipends   1,364          -        1,364       0%
(iv)  Community-based distribution            231       -          231.      0%
(v)  Project Implementation Unit            284        -          284       0%
(vi)  External Auditor                        -          50         50    100%
Sub-Total G                                2,425         50     2,475       2%
Sub-Total II                               2,509     1,048      3,557
Base Cost                                          4,195      1,892      6,087      31%
Contingencies:
(i)  Construction, physical                  169        84        253
(ii)  Construction, price                     390       195        585
(iii)  Non-Construction, physical              -           70        70
(iv)  Non-Construction, price                 418       120        538
Total Contingencies                          977        469     1.446      32%
GRAND TOTAL                                         5.172     2          .533       31%



- 28 -
B. Proposed FinancinR
5.03      The project would be financed by a loan of US$5.0 million equivalent
(67%) and a Government contribution of US$2.5 million equivalent (33%). The
proposed loan would cover US$2.6 mi'llion equivalent of local costs on project
grounds, to assist the Government in establishing an effective delivery
system for basic health and family planning services in rural areas (Annex 13).
The loan would be on standard Third Window terms. The Bank loan would include
retroactive financing not to exceed US$83,000 to cover expenses incurred by
the Government since March 1, 1976 to start project preparation, including
training of staff, technical assistance, site selection and acquisition and
work on detailed design of physical facilities.
5.04      Recurrent costs related to the project after the third year of
operation for salary and project unit operation expenses, are estimated at
RD$400,000 per annum, representing approximately 2% of the projected SESPAS
current expenditures or 0.1% of the projected public expenditures for that
date.
C. Procurement
5.05      All contracts over US$200,000 equivalent for civil works, and over
US$80,000 equivalent for furniture and equipment, special equipment and
vehicles required for the project would be awarded on the basis of Internation-
al Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" (August, 1975). Contracts for civil
works not exceeding US$200,000 and in aggregate not exceeding US$400,000, and
contracts for vehicles, furniture and equipment and special equipment not ex-
ceeding US$80,000 and in aggregate not exceeding US$200,000 will be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures that are
satisfactory to the Bank. In all cases, contractors for civil works will be
prequalified. Foreign contractors and suppliers will not be precluded, from
bidding.
5.06      To the extent practicable, procurement will be based on bid packages
by geographical zones prepared in such a way as to achieve the most efficient
competition. The buildings included in the project are not likely to attract
international bidders due to their location in rural areas and their simple
type. The size of contract packages simultaneously covering civil works and
built-in furniture will range from approximately US$100,000 to US$1,000,000
equivalent. Bidding documents for all contracts over US$200,000 will be sent
to the Bank for review. Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment will
be accorded a margin of preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. cost of competing
imports or the applicable custom duties, whichever is lower.



- 29 -
5.07      Equipment should be standardized for all health buildings.  This
will ensure that health personnel will operate the same type of equipment
on which they have been trained. It will also economize maintenance and -
spare-parts supply.
5.08      The Government will prepare and submit to the Bank for comment,
promptly and upon their preparation, the architectural drawings and outline
specifications for the buildings and equipment included in the project, to-
gether with up-dated cost estimates.
D. Implementation
Proiect Implementation Unit
5.09      The Government has established a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
to administer and coordinate all activities related to the implementation of
the project.   This unit is, in part, a continuation of the task force estab-
lished by the Government in mid-1974 to assist in project identification
and preparation. (An organizational chart and job descriptions for the senior
PIU staff are given in Annex 10.)
5.10      The PIU is administratively within SESPAS.  Its senior staff (the
Project Director, the Deputy Director, the Architect and the Training Coordinator)
have been appointed under terms and conditions acceptable'to the Bank. The
Project Director is responsible for overall management of project operatioos.
He will be assisted by a Deputy Director who will act in the Director's absence.
The PIU has the following functions; (a) administration and accounting; (b) con-
struction; (c) procurement; and (d) training.  The construction and training
groups are intended to develop, after project completion, into permanent divi-
sions of SESPAS, in charge of, respectively: (a) Physical Facilities Planning
and Maintenance; and (b) Human Resources Development (as part of a future Plan-
ning and Programming Department). The PIU is also intended to assist SESPAS
and CONAPOFA in the development of future projects.   The project would finance
50% of the administrative costs of the PIU.
5.11      The PIU will be supported in its operations by various consultants
(draft terms of reference are included in Annex 8). During negotiations, the
Government agreed to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment will be satisfactory to the Bank. The PIU
will submit quarterly reports on project progress to Government authorities
and the Bank.
5.12      The Government agreed that in order to review the progress of the
project and to plan its execution, it will cause the Project Director, the
Deputy Project Director, the Directors of Regions I and V and senior officials
of CONAPOFA, the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency and the universities
and other agencies participating in the project to meet at least every four
months, under the chairmanship of the Secretary of Health and Social Assistance.



- 30 -
5.13      Project buildings have been designed by private architectural
firms selected on the basis of a design competition. The PIU may, after
consultation with the Bank and on advice of the College of Engineers and
Architects and the executive architects, contract additional engineers,
architects or consulting firms to supervise the implementation of the con-
struction work, and its furnishing and equipping.
5.14      Criteria for site selection have been outlined during project pre-
paration (Annex 11). The location of all sites should be acceptable to the
Bank. Sites for the health sub-ceznter and for the 26 rural clinics will be
located centrally in the communities and near other social facilities for
easy access. Almost all of them are on land that belongs to the Government
(three have already been donated by private agencies); therefore, no de-
lays are anticipated. To date, for all sites in Region V (16) acquiiition
procedures are underway. In Region I, all sites (11) have been selected;
SESPAS is currently undertaking surveys, soil analyses, and acquisition pro-
cedures. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will
acquire all sites for this project no later than three months after loan ef-
fectiveness.
E. Disbursements
5.15      The proposed loan of US$5.0 million equivalent would cover 67% of
the total project cost of US$7.5 million equivalent. The balance of US$2.5
million equivalent would be provided by the Government. The loan would be
disbursed over a period of three years. The amounts to be disbursed by type
of expenditure are as follows:
(a)  100% 'of total expenditures for technical assistance (including ex-
ternal auditors), professional fees (both local and foreign),  re-
search, and project preparation costs; also 100% of the foreign
expenditures of vehicles and special equipment;
(b)  80% of total expenditures for training, seminars, supervision and
the community-based contraceptive distribution program;
(c)  60% of total expenditures for fu-initure and equipment;
(d)  30% of total expenditures for civil works, representing the esti-
mated foreign exchange component; and
(e)  50% of PIU administrative costs.  Disbursements for administrative
costs would be made against a certificate of expenditure, the
documentation for which would not be submitted for review, but
would be retained by the Government and made available for inspection
by the Bank during the course of project supervision.



- 31 -
Assurances were received from the Government during negotiations that it
will assume financing of all regular programs initiated through this pro-
ject. Any savings after the completion of this project could be applied
to financing of components similar to those included in the project, sub-
ject to prior agreement between theGovernment and the Bank.   An estimated
disbursement schedule is included in Annex 14.
F. Accounts and Audit
5.16      During negotiations assurances were received from the Government
that it will open a separate bank account for SESPAS, with an initial balance,
by date of loan effectiveness, of no less than US$300,000 equivalent, and that
it will replenish this account monthly up to a balance adequate to meet the
estimated project expenditures in the ensuing month, with deposits to be in
any case in amounts equivalent to at least US$75,000.   SESPAS would
be responsible for keeping financial records of all expenditures under the
project and for submitting reimbursement applications to the Bank. During
negotiations, the Government agreed to contract the services of an indepen-
dent auditing firm acceptable to the Bank to audit all the accounts and finan-
cial statements of the SESPAS related to the project at least annually, and
will furnish the Bank with certified copies of such statements no later than
three months following the close of each fiscal year.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
6.01      A decline of 47% in the total fertility rate -- from 7.1 in 1970
to 3.4 in the year 2000 -- was assumed as a reaaonable possibility by the Bank
mission with the concurrence of theGovernment.        It is expected that family
planning practice would increase outside the program as a result of general
socio-economic development and it would contribute to one-sixth of the de-
sired fertility decline. The national family planning program would need to
contribute to the remaining desired decline. The population in the year 2000
would then be 8.8 million, nearly double the present number, but about 3.5
million lower than the 12.3 million that would result if fertility remained
constant.
6.02      The project, through the improvements it would make to health/
family planning service delivery and creation of demand for family planning,
would be expected to contribute directly to over one-fourth of the fertility
decline that the national family planning program would have to achieve in
the next 25 years, if the population is to reach a level close to 8.8_million
by 2000. This contribution would be a result of the establishment of an
effective service delivery system in Regions I and V. In the short run,
by 1981 the project areas would provide services to 48,000 contracep-
tive users, and the delivery system would be about three times as



- 32 -
effective as at presentlV (Annex 15). Other important but non-quantifi-
able effects of the project would be the result of (a) improvements in
overall family planning program performance through intensified family
planning training by CONAPOFA, and (b) increased demand for services in
all Regions through intensified promotion by field workers of family plan-
ning and contraceptive use.
6.03      The project would make a major contribution to institutional im-
provements and to the increase in the number and quality of health/family
planning manpower. The project would directly contribute to doubling the
health personnel by 1980. It would also contribute significantly to a re-
structuring of the occupations within the health profession, the introduction
of a continuing program of in-service training on a decentralized basis, and
improved coordination among the agencies providing health, family planning
and community services.
6.04      A wider set of health benefits, particularly improvement in mater-
nal and child health, would result from changes assisted by the proposed pro-
ject.   These benefits would accrue primarily to the rural population, which
now have considerably less access to health services than the urban population.
In Regions I and V the proposed project would enable the provision of effective
health and family planning services to an estimated 800,000 of the rural and
semi-rural population by 1981.
6.05      Finally, a slowing of population growth will make the realization of
all major development goals easier, particularly the attainment of increased
educational levels, improved health and nutrition, lower unemployment and in-
creased per capita incomes. For example, if fertility should continue at pres-
ent levels, the country would have about 2.5 million school-aged children in
the year 2000; if the targets cited in para. 6.01 are met, there will be one
million fewer school-aged children. The resulting savings could contribute
significantly to the improvement of educational standards. A decline in popu-
lation growth would eventually reduce the number of people requiring employ-
ment as well, thereby, contributing to lower rates of unemployment and under-
employment.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  The Governmentwill reorganize and strengthen-the SESPAS with the
assistance of management consultants as required, and it will take
steps to implement a reorganization, to be operational no later
1/ By 1980 it is estimated that the combined crude birth rate in Regions I
and V could be as low as 41 per 1,000, from 47 in 1970, because of im-
provements introduced in the services by the project.



- 33 -
than one year after loan effectiveness, paying special attention
to the areas mentioned with the objective of achieving an effec-
tive health delivery system and replicating the experiences of
Regions I and V in the whole country (para. 4.05);
(b) The Government will employ consultants for this project whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
will be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.11);
(c) For the purposes of reviewing the progress of the project and
planning its execution, the Government will cause the Project
Director, the Deputy Project Director., the Directors of Health Regions
I and V and senior officials of CONAPOFA, the Technical Secretariat
of the Presidency and the universities and other agencies parti-
cipating in the project to meet at least every four months, under
the Chairmanship of the Secretary of Health and Social Assistance
(para. 5.12);
(d)  The Government will take the necessary steps to: (i) confer upon
the Directors of Health Regions I and V authority and responsibility
for day-to-day management of the health services and implementation
of the project in their respective Regions; (ii) provide these
Directors with such budgetary resources as shall be required
for the efficient day-to-day operations of their respective Regions;
and (iii) cause the personnel working in such Regions to be paid
wages only upon performance of their respective assignments (para.
2.05);
(e) The Government will consult with the Directors of Health Regions I
and V, as appropriate, before making any personnel appointments,
transfers and dismissals, and creating any new positions in their
respective Regions (para. 2.05);
(f) The Government, in consultation with the Directors of Health Regions
I and V, will adequately staff the facilities included in the pro-
ject with trained and qualified personnel,and it will assume all re-
current costs during the project period and for at least 15 years
from the date of the Agreement,  as required for the efficient
operations of its health services (para. 4.10);
(g)  Within six months after loan effectiveness, the Government will enter
into agreements with at least three Dominican universities with
medical schools, whereby such universities will undertake inter alia:
(i) to assign their medical students for field practice in Regions I
and V for such periods of time as shall be necessary to ensure the



- 34 -
continuity of health services in these Regions; (ii) to train
SESPAS' field personnel in community-based health services; and
(iii) to review and, if necessary, to revise the curricula in
their medical schools to reflect the emphasis on preventive and
community health services including maternal and child health
services (paras. 2.10 and 4.12);
(h) Within six months after loan effectiveness the Government will
enter into an agreement with at least one Dominican university
with a nursing school, whereby such university shall undertake
inter alia: (i) to assign its nursing students to work in rural
clinics for such periods of time as shall be necessary to ensure
the continuity of health services in rural areas; and (ii) to
review and, if necessary, to revise the curricula in its nursing
school to introduce the concept of community-based health care,
emphasizing preventive services, including maternal and child
health care (4.13);
(i) The Governmentwill cause SESPAS' nursing school, within six
months after loan effectiveness, (i) to assign its students for
field practice in Regions I and V for such periods of time as
shall be necessary to ensure the continuity of health services;
and (ii) to review and, if necessary, to revise its curricula to
introduce the concept of community-based health care, emphasizing
preventive services, including maternal and child health care
(para. 4.14);
(j) Every year, during a period of five years starting as of January
1, 1977, the Government will create within SESPAS such positions
throughout the country, mainly in rural areas, for graduate nurses
and technical nurses as necessary to ensure employment for the
graduates of the fellowship program included in the project
(para. 4.23);
(k) TheGovernment will assume 50% of the administrative costs of the
PIU during the project period (para. 5.15);
(1)  Within three months after loan effectiveness, the Government will cause
ODC, the CEA, the Dominican Agrarian Institute and the Department
of Agricultural Extension of the Secretariat of Agriculture, to
participate in the project (para. 4.11);
(m)  The Governmentwill enter into an agreement with the Social Service
of Dominican Churches to the effect that that agency will under-
take a program of community-based distribution of contraceptives and.
promotion of family planning methods in pre-selected areas of the
country not covered by basic health services (para. 4.29);



- 35 -
(n) The Government will continue to carry out the evaluation of its
family planning program under terms of reference which shall
include those set forth in para 4.32;
(o) The Government will cause each fellowship recipient described in
paras. 4.18-4.20 to sign a contract with SESPAS to the effect
that, upon completion of the studies, the recipient will work in
the services of SESPAS, in the location agreed at the moment of
contract signing, for a period of at least two years; failure
to fulfill this obligation would result in cancellation of the
fellowship and obligation to repay the cost incurred to the
Government (para. 4.22);
(p) The location of all sites for facilities to be built through this
project should be acceptable to the Bank and should be acquired by
the Government no later than three months after loan effectiveness
(para. 5.14);
(q)  The Government will open a separate bank project account for
SESPAS with an initial balance, by date of loan effectiveness, of
no less than US$300,000 equivalent, and it will maintain this
account's balance at a level adequate to meet every quarter's pro-
ject expenditures during the project period with monthly deposits
to be in any case in amounts equivalent to at least US$75,000
(para. 5.16);
(r) The Government will contract the services of external auditors ac-
ceptable to the Bank to audit all accounts and financial statements
of the SESPAS project account at least annually, and will furnish
the Bank with certified copies of such statements no later than
three months following the close of each fiscal year (para. 5.16);
and
(s) The Government will review, and revise as necessary, the salary
scale for nursing personnel from time to time to ensure (i) that
salaries will provide sufficient incentives for people to enter
and remain in the nursing profession    and (ii) that salaries are
structured to provide sufficient incentives for services in rural
areas (para. 2.09).
7.02      The Government has officially established the Project Implementation
Unit within SESPAS (para. 5.09), and the Director, Deputy Director, Architect
and Training Coordinator of the Project Implementation Unit have been appointed
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.10).
7.03      A condition of effectiveness of the loan is the opening of a separate
bank account for the project with an initial balance of no less than US$300,000
equivalent (para. 5.16).
7.04      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$5.0 million equivalent to the Government of the Dominican Republic on
standard Third Window terms.






ANNEXES
Table of Contents
1.   Demographic Analysis
A. Vital Registration
B. Demographic and Socio-Economic Background
C. Population Projections
D. Tables
2.   1973 Expenditures in Health Care by Institution and
Estimated Target Population
3.   Secretariat of State of Public Health and Social Assistance
(SESPAS) Organizational Chart
4.   Existing Health Facilities in the Dominican Republic (SESPAS
and IDSS) by Region and by Type
5.   Training of Nursing Personnel
A. Training Programs
B. Training Targets
C. Tables
6.   The National Council for Family Planning (CONAPOFA)
A. Organization
B. Training in Family Planning
C. Family Planning Clinics by Agency and Health Region
7.   Comprehensive Health Care
8.   Technical Assistance and Training Courses in the Project
A. Technical Assistance
B. Training Courses
9.   Program of Community-Based Distribution of Contraceptives
10.   Project Implementation
11.   Civil Works
-   Cost Estimate
-   Health Facilities in Regions I and V
-   Tentative Location of Project Facilities
-   Project Implementation Schedule
-   Criteria and Preparation for Site Selection
12.   Costs of Non-Construction Project Components
13.   Financing Plan - By Type of Expenditure
- By Functional Category
14.   Estimated Disbursements
15.   Estimated Project Effects in Regions I and V, 1975-1981






ANNEX 1
Page 1
DEMOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS
A. Vital Registration
1.        Birth and death registration and morbidity reporting in the
Dominican Republic are deficient. The most reliable mortality and fer-
tility measures are those calculated from the census data. On that basis,
the birth and death rates for the period 1965-70 were estimated at 47.5
and 14.5 per 1,000 respectively. Crude birth rate estimates during the
past three decades have ranged from 45-50 per 1,000 inhabitants. A fer-
tility survey, carried out as part of USAID's health sector assessment,
placed the birth rate at 45 per 1,000 in 1973.
2.        Collection of vital statistics in the Dominican Republic is a
function of two offices: the Division of Statistics of SESPAS, for death
and morbidity, and the National Statistics Office, for birth, marriage and
divorce. Morbidity reporting is the responsibility of SESPAS and the Armed
Forces, but there is nothing to bind the IDSS and the private sector to sub-
mit morbidity reports. Even at SESPAS, there is considerable under-report-
ing; about half of the Secretariat's rural clinics do not submit the re-
quired monthly reports. It was reported that only 37% of death certifi-
cates are filed by physicians, the rest by mayors or sanitary inspectors.
Although by law all deaths should be reported, there is an estimated 50%
omission. There is a need for improved and unified collection of vital
events.
3.        As a result of the deficiencies found in the vital registration
system, the USAID is starting a system of sample data collection of vital
events in areas where the low-cost health delivery system of the National
Malaria Eradication Service is now operating. Also, the Government sent
statistical personnel abroad with fellowships and provided each Regional
Health office with a qualified statistical staff member. A fertility survey
undertaken in 1975 is now being analysed by the National Statistics Office and
results are expected in mid-1976.
B. Demographic and Socio-Economic Background
4.        The population of the Dominican Republic in the 1970 census was
4 million, having doubled in the last 20 years. The following table gives
figures for the past censuses:



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Year              Population               Average Annual Growth Rate
1920                894,665                           ---
1935              1,479,417                           3.4
1950              2,135,872                           2.5
1960              3,047,070                           3.6
1970              4,006,405                           2.8
As noted on the basis of census data, the birth rate during 1965-70 was 47.5
per 1,000 and the death rate was 14.5 per 1,000, producing a rate of natural
increase of 3.3%, among the highest in the world. However, because of emi-
gration, especially to the U.S., the average annual growth rate of the popu-
lation is close to 3% per year. The average number of children born to women
upon completion of their reproductive years was 6.8 for the period 1965-70.
Infant mortality rates are still high, around 104 per 1,000 live births. 1/
The population is young, with 48% under the age of 15, resulting in a high
dependency ratio of 1.04.
5.        The incidence of consensual marriage is high:  approximately 1/3
of all women live in such unions; another 1/3 are married and 1/3 are_un-
married or widowed. The fertility of the women living in consensual unions
is only slightly less than that_of married women.  This can be explained by
the permanent nature of most consensual unions.
6.        A national demographic study of the number of living children
born to women aged 15-49 found the following: for literat'e women who had
completed childbearing, the average number of children ever born was 7, com-
pared to 9 for illiterate women; completed family size was 7.6 for women who
worked, compared to 8.3 for women who did not. It was also estimated that
the average number of living children per family is 5 in urban areas, compared
to 8 in rural areas. Reasons for this disparity include greater knowledge of
contraception, increased participation by women in the labor force, increased
age at marriage and difficulties confronted by large families in urban areas.
Lower fertility among urban residents is an encouraging sign in terms of the
potential success of the family planning program. However, the high percentage
of rural population - 60% - gives an indication of the magnitude of the task
faced by the Government to decrease the growth rate.
7.        In 1970, 45% - 55% of the active labor force was engaged in agri-
culture, while only 8% - 12% was employed in industry. Despite rapid
1/  USAID Health Sector Assessment of the Dominican Republic, February
1975.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
economic expansion, unemployment and underemployment are persistent through-
out the Dominican Republic's economy (estimated at 40% in 1973) 1/. Al-
though there are relatively greater work opportunities in the capital city,
these opportunities are flooded by the migratory influx into the city.
8.        Since the labor force is expanding faster than increased produc-
tion can absorb additional workers into the economy, high unemployment and
underemployment are likely to continue in spite of the Government's efforts
to solve the problem. During the 1980's, the labor force will start to in-
crease at a high rate, even with declining fertility. A further drop in the
rate of growth of agricultural employment is expected, as well as increased
migration to urban areas, aggravating the urban unemployment problem. The
problem of unemployment in the Dominican Republic is more serious than in
most other Latin American countries, and its reduction must be a principal
part of any development program.
9.        According to the 1970 census, 68% of the population 10 years of
age or older were able to read and write. This represents an increase of
only 2.2% since 1960, when 65.8% were literate. The slow improvement in
literacy during the last decade is largely due to the inability of the edu-
cational system to expand rapidly enough to offset population increases.
Poorly and inadequately trained teachers, as well as crowded conditions
(an average of 62 students per classroom in 1969-70), contribute to the
problem. Although primary education is free and compulsory, only about
66% of the children 7 to 14 years of age were attending primary schools
in 1970. Of the total number of children of intermediate and secondary
school age, only 23% were enrolled in school. 2/
C. Population Projections
10.       Two illustrative population projections (Table 1) have been pre-
pared for this report to show the alternative trends in the next quarter
century under the following assumptions of fertility decline:
Projection A: almost constant high fertility during
the period;
Projection B: moderately rapid decline in the total
fertility rate to about 73% of the 1970
value by 1980, and to 47% by 2000. -
1/   ILO, "Generacion de empleo, produccion y crecimiento economico -
El caso de la Repu'blica Dominicana." Geneva, 1975.
2/   1970 Census.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
11.       In both projections, life expectancy is expected to increase from
52 to 60 years for males, and from 55 to 63 years for females, by the year
2000. Projection A estimates the population trend in the absence of a
family planning program. It serves as a basis to measure the efforts that
would be required in terms of family planning users, and the births that would
have to be saved to achieve a fertility decline similar to that illustrated
by Projection B. The age-specific fertility rates that would result from
those projections are included in Table 2.
12.       An examination of the educational sector graphically illustrates
the implications of these two projections. The elementary school-age popu-
lation (6-12) which, in 1970, was 860,000, would almost double by the year
2000, if a moderate fertility decline were realized. That group could reach
as high as 2.5 million children in the year 2000, given constant fertility
(Table 3).
13.       In order to continue providing elementary education of the current
quality, by 1980 the educational system (teachers, administrative staff, and
buildings and equipment) will need to be expanded by 20% to 25%. From that
time on, the expansions needed would differ considerably, depending on whether
the population's fertility is declining or not. For instance, based on
projections A and B, by 1990 this group will increase by 107% or by 49%,
respectively. The secondary school group will be 95% or 63% larger than in
1970, also depending on fertility trends. For the college age group, 17 to 20
years (which is also the group seeking entrance to the labor force), the
effect of a decline in fertility would be noticeable only after 1990;
however, the differences would be dramatic by 1995.
Implications for Program Targets
14.       In order to accomplish the more moderate population growth illus-
trated by projection B, the numbers of contraceptive users would have to
increase from the present 75,000, to 100,000 in 1980 and almost 200,000 in
1990 (Table 4).
15.       In 1980, according to these estimates, the family planning services
would have to be prepared to take care of about 400,000 visits per year, in
260 service outlets (Table 5).



Table 1
Dominican Republic Population Projections based on Assumptions of (A) Constantly
High Fertility and (B) Moderately Fast Fertility Decline
1970-2000
Population Proiections
(in millions)
(July 1)                   Birth Rate                     Death Rate          Rate of Natural
(Constant   (Moderately            per 1.000                        per 1.000            Increase  (           Infant Mortality
Year       Fertility)  fast decline)           A         B                      A         B          A            B         A           B
1970                 4.0                          47.5                             14.5                  3.30                  102.61-
1975       4.8                 4.7          49.3      41.0                   12.9--   12.1        3.6           2.9       94.8        94.8
1976       4.9                 4.8          49.5      39.7                   12.7      11.8       3.7           2.8       93.3        93.3
1977       5.1                 4.9          49.8      39.6                    12.5     11.5       3.7           2.8       91.8        91.8
1978       5.3                 5.0          50.0      39.5                    12.2     11.3       3.7           2.8       90.3        90.3
1979       5.5                 5.2          50.1      39.3                    12.0     11.1       3.8           2.8       88.8        88.8
1980       5.7                 5.3           50.2     39.1                    11.8     10.9        3.8          2.8       87.3        87.3
1985       7.0                .6.1          49.1      36.8                    10.7       9.9       3.8          2.7       80.0        80.0
1990        8.4                7.0          47.2      33.7                     9.6       9.1       3.8          2.5       74.1        74.1
1995      10.1                 7.9          46.6      30.4                     8.9       8.5       3.8          2.1       68.4        68.4
2000      12.3                 8.8          46.9      27.0                     8.2       7.9       3.9          1.9       62.7        62.7
a' I
1/ Based on 1970 Census data.



AMNNEX 1
Page 6
Table 2
Estimated Age-Specific Fertility Rates
1 975-2000
1975               1980                1990               2000
1970        A        B                              A                         7 Y A  . .    r
15 - 19       .129        Const.  .105       Const.  .094        Const.  .077       Const.  .061
20 - 24       .305        Const.  .249       Const.  .222        Const.  .183       Const.  .144
25 - 29       .331        Const.  .270       Const.  .241        Const.  .198       Const.  .156
30 - 34       .361        Const.  .246       Const.  .219        Const.  .181        Const.  .142
35 - 39       .227        Const.  .185       Const.  .165        Const.  .136        Const.  .107
40 - 44        .102       Const.  .083       Const.  .074        Const.  .061        Const.  .048
45 - 49        .026       Const.  .021       Const.  .019        Const.  .015        Const.  .012
Total rer-
tility Ratel/  7.1         7.1      5.8        7.1     5.2        7.1      4.3        7.1     3.4
1/ Live births per woman of reproductive age.



Table 3
Estimated School-age Population 1970-2000
Projections A and B
Elementary                               Secondary                              College
6-12 Years                              13-16 Years                           17-20 Years
A                  B                     A                B                      A                 B
Number  Percent/ Number  PercentL/    Number  PercentL/ Number  Percenttt/    Number  PercentAJ Number  Percents'
Year     (000's) Increase  (0O0's) Increase      (000) Increase  (0001s) Increase        (000's) Increase  (OOOts) Increase
1970       857       -       857        -          400      -        400        -          322        -       322       -
1980     1,062      24     1,023       19          519     30         519      30          486       51       486      51
1985     1,413      65     1,161       35          567     42         561      40          513       59       513      59
1990     1,758     105     1, 277      49          780     95         650      63          610       89       592      84
1995     2,111     146     1,399       63          975    144         716      79          809      151       649    102
2000     2,492     191     1,474       72        1,178    195         790      98        1,008      213       727    126
1/  Per cent increase over 1970.                                                                                    CD



Table 4
Estimated Contraceptive Users Needed to             PaN EX
Realize a Moderate Fertility Decline             Page 8
Women to      Couple-                           1/ % practic-
be protected      years        Contraceptive Users-  ing out-
Women          with         of pro-                    Within   side the
Year        15-49      contraceptionl2  tection2i     Total        Program3 Program
1975      1,063,000        477,100       97,399       75,024 V/    75,024       -
4976     1,104,000         514,700      121,008       80,621       80,621       -
1977      1,147,000        541,400      133,686       82,935       82,935       -
1978      1,189,000        569,100      147,524       85,249       85,249       -
1979      1,232,000        597,900      162,947       84,319        84,319      -
1980      1,274,000        626,300      178,605       97,387        97,387      -
1981      1,315,000        655,6oo      196,074      103,619        98,438      5
1982      1,355,000        684,800      214,651      117,042       111,190      5
1983      1,393,000        713,900      234,733      126,701       120,365      5
1984      1,430,000        740,900      255,o80      135,800       129,010      5
1985      1,463,000        766,300      277,501      147,654       140,271      5
1986      1,516,000        803,000      296,583      149,612       140,635      6
1987      1,570,000        840,700      316,791      165,216       153,651      7
1988      1,625,000        878,ooo      336,303      167,983       154,544      8
1989      1,679,000        915,100      355,231      179,986       163,787      9
1990      1,733,000        952,100      372,833      183,196       164,876     10
1991      1,786,000        988,700      397,491      211,520       190,368     10
1992      1,838,000      1,024,900      422,279      221,002       198,902     10
1993      1,891,000      1,062,000      446,691      230,485      205,132      11
1994      1,946,000      1,100,400      470,909      232,186      206,645      11
1995      2,001,000      1,139,100      493,605      247,420       220,204     11
1996      2,057,000      1,178,100      518,684      258,580       227,550     12
1997      2,113,000      1,217,000      542,581      267,448       235,354     12
1998     2,170,000       1,259,300      569,555      286,198      248,992      13
1999      2,226,000      1,300,300      595,048      291,376       250,583     14
2000      2,282,000      1,343,100      622,101      310,280       263,738     15
1/  Numbers needed in order to accomplish fertility decline assumed under
projection B.
2/  Actual number.
TI  It is assumed that from 1981 to 2000, about 5 to 15% of the users needed to
accomplish desired fertility decline, would be practicing contraception out-
side the program.
Note:  Estimates of contraceptive practice are based on a linear regression
function which links the level of fertility in a given year to the prevalence
of contraception practiced by women during year immediately preceding.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
Table 5
Estimated Family Planning
Client Activity
Number of Clinic           Number of Sessions            Number of Family
Visits per Year                per Year                  Planning Service
Year                 (1)                          (2)                   Outlets   (3)
1975                300,096                      25,008                        208 1/
1976                322,484                      26,874                        222
1977                331,740                       27,645                       226
1978                340,996                      28,416                        231
1979                337,276                      28,106                        231
1980                389,548                      32,462                        260
1981                393,752                      32,813                        260
1982                444.760                      37,063                        280
1983                481,460                      40,122                        290
1984                516,040                      43,003                        298
1985                561,084                      46,757                        312
1986                562,540                      46,878                        312
1987                614,604                      51,217                        316
1988                618,176                      51,515                        316
1989                655,148                      54,596                        316
1990                659,504                      54,960                        316
1991                761,472                      63,456                        320
1992                795,608                      66,300                        340
1993                820,528                      68,377                        345
1994                826,580                      68,881                        345
1995                880,816                       73,401                       .350
1996                910,200                       75,850                       353
1997                941,416                       78,450                       355
1998                995,968                      82,997                        360
1999              1,002,332                       83,528                       363
2000              1,054,952                       87,913                       366
Col. (1)  Contraceptive users within program (see Table 4) x average of 4 visits per yr.
Col. (2)  Col. (1) atI2 patieents per 4.5 hour clinic session.
Col. (3)  Col. (2) atl20-240 sessions per year (average of _2.3 sessions per week  up to
1980 and increasing to 3.5 sessions per week by 1985).
1/ By December 1975, there were 213 service outlets in operation.



ANNEX 2
1973 Expenditures in Health Care by Institution
and Estimated Target Population
Allocation of Financial      Estimated
Institution                       Resources         Target Population  Expenditures
A1ount(RD$)        %     Number        %  (RD$ per Capita)
Secretariat of Health
(SESPAS)                    21,425.,068       20.0   3,118,825    68.4           6.87
Social Security             13,000,000        12.2    192,918       4.2         67.39
(IDSS)
Armed Forces and Police      5,583,764          5.2     125,000     2.7         44.67
Sugar Council                  380,292           .4    350,000      7.7          1.09
(CEA)
Other Government            12,396,927         11.6       n.a.      n.a.         n.a.
Private Sector              54,000,000         50.6     775,598    17.0         6
Total                   106L786,051        100.0  4,562,,34    100.0         23.41
Source: USAID Health Sector Assessment for the Dominican Republic, February 1975,
p.146.
n.a.     Information not available.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECRETARIAT OF STATE OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL ASSISTANCE
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
DIRECTO  OF NAIONAL                  UB SECESARRADINISTRTIVPUSBLSCCRTARYTO
FNCSOCIAL ASSISTANCE 
TECHNURSL NOVISES  ML                          D IVIONO                                                 I      S
|   PAHO/WHO)       |G
_AC                                           C  MENT
MAINT                                    OP-ANI                       N
HEALTH                 ODC   RD                   TALT  ST                                           DIVRSION            TRNIPO             AHOIET                        HOME
| IVOLF MATERNA   lM  IIINO                                                                        I.OFHSIA                    ESNE                                             DIRE-CTOR OF SERVICE 
P a                                               CHILD HEALTH l 7 NURSING |  | MEDICAL CARE                                          IAl ASDISION    DA  SCAR  SISTANCE IN
J DEPT. OF   l    j   TUBERCULOSIS  |   j   DIV. OF HEALTH }                              j    ~~~~~~~~~~ACCOUNTING   l                 HL                        ETROF OBS.|
SCHOOL HYGIEE|           DVSO                .                            EDCTN         l                                   DIVISION       llPOETO                                             FMNR 
DEPT. OF DENTAL |II Lr                                =                  rN DIV. OF      l2                                     - :                                    RPHANS       L              NUSR        l
HYGIENE                                                                                                                      ,V l      SAISISN                        HOMEr                 m      HOEl
DEPT.OF        l          DVSOOF l_                                       DIOF                                                                                       D AS&|| PRHSN          AY CARE  L  SEWING l
DIEUTRITICS   l    7   PHARMACY                                         BLOOD BANK                                         DIVISION                                CENTER                        CENTER
j  DIVISION OF  l  I  PRINTING  |   | INSTITUTE                    FINANCIAL
OF FREPA-AI
7  NUTRITION  l  m  SECTION  |    l RATION OF MINORS riD
L  DIV. OF PSYCHIATRY  l                                  .                                  2     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~MAILING a B                                    SOCIAL       l
7 ANO MENTAL HYGIENE |                                                                       7     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FILING  1.7                                      ASSISTANCE l
|  HEALTH REGIONS                 l
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tl Ill--40



ANNEX 4
EXISTING HEALTH FACILITIES IN THE DCMINICAN REPUBLIC
(BESPAS AND IpSS) BY REGION AND BY TYPE
SESPAS1'                                          IDSSV
Reeton    Province                                                               S       CR           Sub-Total                EL    _ NC    PC    Sub-Total                   Total
Nucleo      Federal District                                         7      5      4      3      1         20             1      -      -     7          8                       28
Central    San Cristobal                                             I      I             7    _._-        13           _       1      2      -          3                       16
Sub-Total                                          8      6      8    10      1         33             1      1      2      7        11                       44
I          Peravia                                                  -      2      -     4      -           6                   -      -      1          1                        7
San Juan                                                 -     2      1      3      -           6            _      _      -      I         1                         7
La Estrelleta                                           -       1     2      3      -          6             -      -      -      -         -                        6
Azua                                                     -      1    _2      1                 4             - _    -      -    .           ILS
Sub-Total                                          -      6      5    11      -          22             -     -      -      3          3                       25
II          Santiago                                                 1      1      4      7      1         14             -      1     -      1          2                       16
Espaillat                                                -     2      -      4      -          6             -      -      -      1         1                        7
Monte Cristi                                             -      1     3      4      -           8            -      -      -      1         1                         9
Dajabon                                                  -     2      1      2      -          5             -      -      -      -         -                        5
Puerto Plata                                            -      1      4      9      1         1i s                  -      I      1         2                       17
Valverde                                                -                    4      -          5                           I      _         1                        6
Santiago Rodrigues                                      -       1     1      2    _t.          L                 _-                                                  4
Sub-Total                                          I      9    13    32       2         57             -      1      2      4         7                       64
III          La Vega                                                  -      3             6      -         10             -      -      1     1          2                       12
Sancheg Ramirez                                         -      I       !     1      -          4             -      -      I      -         1                        5
Duarte                                                  -      1      3      6      -         10             -      -      -      I         1                       11
Maria Trinidad Sanchez                                   -     2      1      2      -          5             -      -      1      -         1                        6
Saoana                                                  -      2             I 1    -          3             -      -      -      -         -                        3
Salcedo                                                 -       1                              4 -                                                                   4 -A4
Sub-Total                                          -     10      S    17      -         36             -      -      3      2         5                       41
IV          Barahona                                                 -      1      2     5      -           8             -      -     I      1          2                       10
Independencia                                           -      1      2      2      -          5             -      -      -      -         -                        5
Pedernales                                              -      I      -      4      -          5             -      -      -      -         -                        5
Baoruco                                                  -     2      -      _ 2_            4--                                                                     4
Sub-Total                                          _      5     4    13       -         22             -      _      I      1         2                        24
V           San Pedro de Macorin                                     -      2      2      2      1          7             -      -      1     1          2                        9
La Altagracia                                                  1      1      1      -          3             --                   -         -                        3
La Romana                                                _     I      I      l      1          4             -      I      -      -         I                        5
El Seibo                                                -      2      2      2     ,           6             _6
Sub-Total                                          -      6      6     6      2         20             -      1      1      1          3                      23
Grand Total                                              9    42    45    89        5        190             1      3      9    18         31                      221
1/  Data from Survey completed January 1975, by SESPAS,  In addition to the facilities shown here, there are 54 medical dispensaries as follows:
5 in Nucleo Central, 6 in Region I, 9 in Region II, 15 in Region III, 12 in Region IV. and 7 in Region V.
V   Data frm                  lo de ls Seauridad Social. 1974-1978 and Ij zgfe"              (do los Sarvicios Asistenciales Actuale. del IDSS y au posible
reorganfeation), by Arq. Julio Alfredo Nadal.  In cases of inconeistent data, the latter souice was used.  In addition to the facilities
shown here, there are 122 consultorios as follows: 40 in Nuclso Central, 5 in Region I, 23 in legion II, 18 in legion III, 10 in Region IV,
and 26 in leAion V.
KEY:  SESPAS
IBE:     Hospital Especialiaado/Specialized Hospital
HG,      Hospital General and Hospital Integrado/General ane Integrated Hospitals
SC:      Sub-Centro Sanitario/Health Sub-Center
CR:      Clinica Rural/Rural Clinic
CS:      Centro Sanitario/Heslth Center
IDSS
HA:      Hospital Class "A"  Facilities for specialized medicine, research and general nedicine
HB:      Hospital Class "B"  Facilities for general medicine, with no less than 100 beds
IC:      Hospital Class "C"  Facilities for general medicine, with no more than 100 beds
PC:      Polyclinic            Outpatient facilities  (those in Santo Domingo have a few beds)



ANNEX 5
Page 1
TRAINING OF NURSING PERSONNEL
A. Training Programs
Professional Nurses
1.        Nursing School of the Madre y Maestra, Catholic University (UCMM).
The graduate of this institution holds a bachelor's degree in nursing. He
or she has a broadly-based general education and basic training in the bio-
logical, physical, social and nursing sciences. He or she is qualified to
provide nursing care for the individual, the family and the community at the
primary, secondary and tertiary stages of preventive medicine. The nurse
holding this degree is qualified to act as an administrator of nursing ser-
vices, to train nurses and to carry out research work. Located in Santiago,
the UCMM requires a high school diploma for admission to the four-year pro-
gram. An average of 8-10 students graduate each year. The facilities are
adequate and the faculty is good, but a tuition fee prevents many from at-
tending the institution.
2.        National School of Nursing (ENE).  The graduate at this level is
qualified to do the same work as the holder of a bachelor's degree, except
that he or she lacks training in the administration of facilities with more
than 100 beds, in administration at the central or regional level, and in
regular training or research work. Located in Santo Domingo, the ENE re-
quires a high school diploma for admission to the three-year program. Ap-
proximately 150-200 students apply each year, and an average of 18-20 stu-
dents graduate each year. The facilities are obsolete and in poor condition.
Nursing Auxiliaries
3.        Nursing Auxiliary Training Centers (CAAE).  A nursing auxiliary
is a graduate of an officially approved training program. He or she has
an elementary knowledge of the biological, physical and social sciences,
and works under the supervision of a qualified professional nurse. The
auxiliary is qualified to provide nursing care for the individual, the
family and the community at the primary, secondary and tertiary stages of
preventive medicine in situations requiring simple decisions.
4.        There are currently four CAAEs in the Dominican Republic: two in
Santo Domingo, one in Puerto Plata, and one in San Pedro de Macoris. 1/ A
1/   SESPAS operates the CAAE in Puerto Plata and one in Santo Domingo.
The other Center in Santo Domingo and the one in San Pedro de Macoris
are operating in Vocational Schools of the Armed Forces.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
fifth CAAE will be opened in Bani in November 1976 in a Vocational School
of the Armed Forces and a sixth will open in Barahona in 1977. The institu-
tions require completion of the eighth grade for admission to the six-month
program. Approximately 300-600 students apply to each institution each year,
and approximately 40-60 graduate from each institution each year.
5.        Training Program for Practical (untrained) Nurses.  Training of
practical nursing personnel was stepped up in 1975 to upgrade the level
of nursing aide. For inclusion in this four-month program, a candidate
must have been employed as a practical nurse for at least three years (since
1972). Approximately 1,060 practical nurses have been trained through this
program since its initiation in 1973 up to April 1976. The SESPAS plans to
complete this program by end 1977, through 18 courses of 15 students each.
Technical Nurses
6.        Pursuant to Order No. 1/70, the Ministry of Education, Fine Arts
and Culture will introduce (in October 1976) a two-year training course in
the secondary school curriculum (after four years of basic secondary level
studies) which will lead to a technical nursing diploma. An inte-rministerial
committee is currently formulating the curriculum. This new level of nursing
personnel has been created to provide supervisory personnel at a lower cost;
the country could not afford to require all supervisory nursing functions to
be undertaken by graduate nurses.
7.        The current reorganization of nursing personnel and the regionali-
zation process have necessitated redefinitions of the functions of the nurs-
ing personnel (Table 1) and allowed the addition of new functional areas
(Table 2). These will serve as training guidelines, and should assist
efforts to increase the efficiency and status of the nursing personnel.
B. Training Targets
8.        Significant increases in nursing personnel at all levels are
needed to implement the comprehensive health care system and to provide
services to most of the rural population. The Division of Nursing of
SESPAS, therefore, has set ambitious but attainable targets for nursing
training in the country. These are presented in Tables 3-5.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Table 1
FDNCTIONS OF NURSING PERMNNEL
I.   Primary Level
Professional    Technical      Auxiliary
Nurse           Nurse          Nurse
A.   Promotion of Health and Preventive
of Disease
1.   General Activities
(a)  Principles of hygiene          E-R-S*             R-S            R
(b)  Mental health                  E-R-S              R-S            R
(c)  Sex education                  E-R-S              R-S            R
(d)  Accident prevention            E-R-S              R-S            R
(e)  Environmental sanitation       E-R-S              R-S            R
2.   Specific Activities
(a)  Prenatal care                  E-R-S              R-S            R
(b)  Child health                   E-R-S              R-S            R
(c)  Nutrition                      E-R-S              R-S            R
(d)  School hygiene                 E-R-S              R-S            R
(e)  Postnatal care                 E-R-S              P              P
(f)  Vaccination                    E-R-S              R-S            R
(g) Family planning                 E-R-S              R-S            R
(h)  First aid                      E-R-S              R-S            R
(i)  Procedures during epidemics   E-R-S               R-S            I
Interpretation Code
E    =    Teach (Ensenar)                 To explain and interpret the concept and
demonstrate the method of execution.
R         Enact (Realizer)                To execute personally with responsibility
for one's own action.
S    =    Supervise (Supervisor)          To observe, evaluate and guide so that exe-
cution is in accordance with what has been
taught.
P    =    Participate (Participator)    To take an active part, influencing the
process and its outcome but without responsi-
bility for the action.
C    =    Collaborate (Collaborator)    To be involved in the execution while fol-
lowing the directions of a supervisor.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
II.      Secondary  Level
Professional    Technical      Auxiliary
Nurse           Nurse          Nurse
B. Early Diagnosis and Prompt Treatment
1.   Outpatients (Maternal-Child,
Medical-Surgical)
(a)  Identification of needs        E-R-S              R-S            R
(b)  Interpretation of symptoms    E-R-S               R-S            R
(c)  Carrying out doctors'
orders                       E-R-S              R-S            R
(d)  Care and follow-up of
selected cases               E-R-S              R-S            R
(e)  Counseling of patients
and their families           E-R-S              R-S            R
2.   Inpatients
(a)  Identification of needs        E-R-S              R-S            R
(b)  Preparation of treatment
plan                         E-R-S              P              P
(c)  Execution of treatment
plan                         E-R-S              R-S            R
(d)  Evaluation                     E-R-S              P              C
(e)  Participation in medical
and surgical treatment       E-R-S              R-S            R
(f)  Normal confinements            E-R-S              R-S            R
(g)  Participation in treat-
ment of mental patients      E-R-S              R-S            R
(h)  Intensive patient care
(maternal-child, medical-
surgical)                    E-R-S              R-S            R
(i)  Care of premature infants      E-R-S              R-S            R
(j)  Emergencies                    E-R-S              R-S            R
(k)  Counseling of patients and
their families               E-R-S              R-S            R
III.  _     Tertiary  Level
C.   Prevention of Disability
1.   Outpatients Clinic
(a) Prevention of accidents
and infections               E-R-S              R-S            R
(b)  First aid                      E-R-S               R-S            R
(c)  Emergencies                    E-R-S               R-S            R



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Professional    Technical     Auxiliary
Nurse           Nurse         Nurse
2.  Inpatients
(a) Emergencies involving medi-
cal-surgical, maternal-
child and mental patients   E-R-S              R-S           R
(b) Maintenance of body move-
ments                       E-R-S              R-S            R
(c)  Carrying out doctors' orders  E-R-S              R-S           R
D.   Rehabilitation                           E-R-S              R-S           R
E.   Nursing of the_seriously-and
chronically ill and of convalescent
patients                                 E-R-S             R-S            R



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Table 2
FUNCTIONAL AREAS
Professional    Technical      Auxiliary
Nurse           Nurse          Nurse
A.   Administration of Nursing Services
1.   Planning, Organization, Manage-
ment and Supervision of Nursing
Services
(a)  National level                   R-S               -             -
(b)  Regional level                   R-S               -              -
(c)  District level                   R-S                -            _
(d) Hospitals with less than
50  beds                       R-S               -             -
(e)  Hospitals with more than
50 beds                      E-R-S              R-S            -
(f)  Rural clinics                  E-R-S              R-S            P
2.   Development of in-service Edu-
cational Program
(a)  Orientation program            E-R-S              R-S
(b)  Training program               E-R-S              R-S
(c)  Continuing education program  E-R-S
3.   Evaluation
(a)  Evaluation of programs         E-R-S              R-S            C
(b)  Evaluation of personnel        E-R-S              R-S
(c) Data collection
- for program evaluation       E-R-S              R-S            P
- for personnel evaluation    E-R-S               R-S
B.   Nursing Research
1.   Identification of Problems or
Situations in the Nursing Field    E-R-S
2.   Research Design                      E-R-S
3.   Analysis                             E-R-S
4.  Utilization of Findings               E-R-S



ANNEX 5
Page 7
Professional      Technical    Auxiliary
Nurse            Nurse         Nurse
C.   Teaching
1.   Higher and Technical
(a)  Program planning               E-R-S
(b)  Program management             E-R-S
(c) Program development
- Theory                      E-R-S
- Practice                    E-R-S               C             C
(d)  Program supervision            E-R-S               -
(e)  Evaluation                     E-R-S               C
2.   Auxiliary level
(a)  Program planning               E-R-S
(b)  Program management             E-R-S
(c) Development
- Theory                       E-R-S
- Practice                     E-R-S               C             C
(d)  Program supervision            E-R-S              :C
(e)  Program evaluation             E-R-S                C



ANNEX 5
Page 8
Table 3
Estimated Annual Admissions and Graduations    the
Nursing Professional/University Level -
Total
Schools                    1976-77    1977-78    1978-79    1979-80   Graduates
Escuela Nacipnal de
Enfermera2/
1st year                      47         150         150         150          -
2nd year                      32          40         127         127          -
3rd year                      37          30          36         114          -
Graduates                     35          28          33        112         208
U.C. Madre yMaestra/
2nd year                      50          50          50          50          -
3rd year                      4?          42          42          42          _
ith year                        8         38          38          38          -
Graduates                      8          36          36         36         116
Total graduates, country      43          64          69        148         324
1/ Attrition rate: 1st to 2nd year - 15%; 2nd to 3rd year - 10%;
3rd to 4th year -  5%.
2/ Enrollment in future years after 1976, assuming that school will be absorbed
by two universities.
3/ The first year is general education; specialized training in nursing
begins in the second year.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
Table 4
Estimated Annual Admissions and Graduations at the
Technical Levell!
- Total
Liceos                     1976-77    1977-78    1978-79    1979-80  Graduations
Liceo Los Minas,
Sto. Domingo
1st year                      60         80         120        160
2nd year                       -         51          68        102
Graduations                    -         50          66        100         216
Liceo No. 2_
starting 1977-78
1st year                       -         40          40         40
2nd year                       -          -          34         34
Graduations                    _          -          34         33          67
Liceo No. 3
starting 1978-79
1st year                       -          _          40         40
2nd year                       -          -           -         34
Graduations                    -          -           -         33          33
Total Graduations                        50         100         166        316
1/ Attrition rates 15% between 1st and 2nd year, and 2-4% during 2nd year, before
graduation.
2/ Liceos which will offer technical nurse courses in future years are now being
selected by the Secretariat of Education.



ANNEX 5
Page 10
Table 5
Estimated Annual Admissions to and Graduations from the
Nursing Auxiliary Training Centers (CA&ES )V
Centers' location and Agency          1976   1977   1978   1979   1980  Total
Santo Domingo
1. SESPAS CAAE          Admissions    60      55     55     55      55      -
Graduations   55     50     50      50     50    255
2. Armed Forces
Vocational School    Admissions    60      55     55     55      55      -
Graduations   55     50     50      50     50    255
Puerto Plata
3. SESPAS CAAE          Admissions    55      55     55      55     55      _
Graduations   50     50     50      50     50    250
San Pedro de Macoris
4. Armed Forces
Vocational School    Admissions    44      44     44     44      44      _
Graduations   40     40     40      40     40    200
Bani
5. Armed Forces
Vocational School    Admissions      -     44     44     44      44      _
(starting Nov. 76)   Graduations    -      40     40     40      40    160
Barahona
6. Armed Forces
Vocational School    Admissions      -      _     44     44      44      _
(starting in 1977)  Graduations    -       -     40      40     40    120
Total Graduations                     200    230    270    270    270  1,240
1/ Six-month course -- two groups graduating per year.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
THE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR FAMILY PLANNING (CONAPOFA)
A. Organization
Medical Division
1.        CONAPOFA's Medical Division, formed by a medical director and nurse
supervisor, has responsibility for supervising the clinical family planning
work of all medical and paramedical personnel in family planning clinics.
As the number of family planning service points increased, more supervisors
were appointed, until 1974, when CONAPOFA posted supervisory teams consisting
of one doctor, one nurse and one social assistant supervisor in each of the
six Health Regions. The field supervisory staff report directly to CONAPOFA's
Medical Division. There is no formal reporting line with the respective
Regional Health Director of SESPAS; also there is no formal coordination at
the central level between CONAPOFA's Medical Division and the Secretariat of
Health (SESPAS) Maternal and Child Health (MCH) and Nursing Divisions.
CONAPOFA started with this relatively independent system because of the
deficiencies in the SESPAS health delivery system. Now, however, the integra-
tion of the supervisory team into the regional health system is desirable and
could be effected as soon as the health services show substantial improvements
in administration and performance. The proposed project would assist SESPAS
in developing a viable health delivery system, beginning with Regions I & V,
and it would also assist CONAPOFA in reinforcing and expanding its role as
coordinating, promoting and training agency for the national population
program.
Evaluation and Research Division
2.        CONAPOFA recently (March 1974) created the Evaluation and Research
Division. The Evaluation Division focuses primarily on assessing the im-
pact of the family planning program. By the end of 1974, it had completed
the establishment of a new statistical system with the technical assistance
of one advisor from the Population Council and financing from UNFPA. New
clinic records were designed and new procedures were established for the
transmission, processing and analysis of family planning service statistics.
The system also makes provision for special surveys to help establish con-
tinuation rates by method of contraception. On the basis of the informa-
tion already produced, CONAPOFA has identified priority areas for opening
new family planning clinics. The new system represents a considerable im-
provement.
3.        The Evaluation Division plans to make the following studies:



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(a)  A follow-up survey of family planning acceptors to
increase understanding of the effectiveness of dif-
ferent methods; acceptors' attitudes towards con-
traception and the program; reasons for dropping
out; economic and health benefits derived from
contraception;
(b) Evaluation of the supervision team and attitudes
of program personnel towards family planning; and
(c)  Cost of hospital abortions.
4.        The Research Division is responsible for undertaking research on
the effectiveness of various communication strategies and attitudes on birth
control methods and to help establish program priorities. In 1974 it car-
ried out a knowledge, attitude and practice (KAP) sample survey, and it is
currently participating in the World Fertility Survey. 1/ One goal for
1976 is to produce, in addition to the two general reports expected on the
state of the country, no less than five monographs in order to make maximal use
of the World Fertility data. An Investigation Committee will delineate major
areas of research. There is considerable latitude for expanding the Research
Division's functions to make full use of national research capabilities avail-
able in national universities. A first step would be to draw up a research
policy which would be the basis for planning the research program. The opin-
ions of different groups who make use of demographic statistics should be
requested.
Information, Education, Communication (IEC) and Training Division
5.        Since the ADPBF is the main provider of IEC services for the national
family planning program and it has demonstrated its effectiveness, it is sound
for CONAPOFA to have assumed a cooperating and complementary role in this
field. As the program expands CONAPOFA could contract more services from the
ADPBF (e.g., radio programs, family planning promoters, training) while
reinforcing its planning and coordinating functions.
6.        One of the most important functions of CONAPOFA is the administra-
tion of training and motivation programs. This function has been hampered
by over-centralization and lack of staff. Since 1968, CONAPOFA has trained
907 health staff in family planning. The backlog to be trained was about
6,000 in 1976. During the second half of 1974, the IEC-Division was merged
with the Training Division. This was found to be a more effective arrange-
ment for expanding the scope of its activities. This Agency should have field
staff to plan, help organize and, if necessary, conduct training programs. It
1/   A fertility survey is being undertaken in the Dominican Republic as part
of a world-wide project being executed by the International Statistical
Institute to obtain fertility data in LDCs.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
should also evaluate all training programs in family planning conducted by
various agencies.
7.        In conjunction with the above, the main function of the IEC/Training
Divisio'n at the national level should be to coordinate and monitor programs
of the other agencies rather than to conduct all training programs in family
planning. Specifically, the functions should be:
(a) Assess training needs based on an analysis and projection of
health manpower necessitated by the expansion of SESPAS, IDSS
and the other parts of the health system on the assumption that
family planning services will be integrated into all these ser-
vices;
(b) Define the roles of the various categories of personnel in family
planning and the additional knowledge and skills they need; on
these bases, design training programs (objectives, content, method,
length, etc.) for each category for their basic and continuing
education;
(c) Assist in the preparation and implementation of the training pro-
grams and set priorities for group training;
(d) Set up training guidelines and standards to be followed by the
regional training coordinators;
(e) Stimulate the integration of family planning into the in-service
training program of SESPAS, IDSS, ODC, the Armed Forces, agro-in-
dustrial and other related personnel;
(f) Encourage and give support to the development of curricula in
family life education, population dynamics and family planning edu-
cation, in order that these topics may be integrated into the cur-
ricula of medical, nursing, pharmaceutical and other paramedical
schools, as well as into the general education program of all uni-
versity students;
(g) Prepare training manuals to guide other agencies in implementing
their training programs;
(h) Collect, prepare, project, and distribute training aids (flip charts,
films, film strips, etc.) to all agencies carrying out training pro-
grams in family planning;
(i) Establish a speaker's bureau that could be drawn upon by the various
training programs for resource persons for training, seminars, radio
programs, etc.; and
(j) Set up criteria for evaluation of the training programs.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
B. Training in Family Planning
Existing Situation
8.        The private organizations which first provided family planning ser-
vices were, consequently, the first agencies to undertake training activities.
Founded in 1966, the Dominican Association for Family Welfare (ADPBF) trained
the corps of health personnel that: became the nucleus for the present family
planning program. Today, CONAPOFA, through its IEC/Training Division, is
starting to assume a major role for training in family planning. In the seven
years since the inception of the official program, ADPBF and CONAPOFA have
trained approximately 16 % of the health manpower in the Dominican Republic
in family planning. The present plan is to train 1,075 physicians and graduate
nurses and 1,025 auxiliary and practical nurses within the next four years.
In addition, refresher courses will be offered to 600 physicians and nursing
personnel. Since January 1974, training activities have expanded through the
technical assistance of UNFPA.
9.        CONAPOFA plans to offer family planning training at several levels.
The courses vary in content and in length according to the qualifications and
job functions of the trainees.
10..      In addition, CONAPOFA provides training to administrators and execu-
tives in family planning. Ministry secretaries and others responsible for the
formulation of population policy have already been participating in seminars
and observation trips to other countries. Those responsible for programming,
administration, supervision and evaluation of MCH and family planning programs
would be offered theoretical courses in mass communications, planning, super-
vision, training, research and evaluation, and administration. CONAPOFA lacks,
however, training staff in the field essential for efficient and effective pro-
gram planning, organization, coordination and evaluation.
11.       The ADPBF has continued to coordinate with CONAPOFA in the training
program, but is currently limiting itself to the training of its own personnel.
The National Institute of Sex Education (INES) has also contributed to train-
ing in family planning in schools, while the ODC has concentrated on its own
community development workers and leaders. The SESPAS has its own training
program, but has not made a significant contribution to the effective integra-
tion of family planning content in its various curricula.
12.       The existing training program is-inadequate for future program needs.
All rural health personnel must be trained as soon as possible to maximize the
integration of family planning into the health delivery system. As the number
of health facilities increases, a concomitant increase in personnel from other
sectors -- including educators, agro-industrialists, community leaders, religious
leaders, and the armed forces -- could serve as disseminators of family planning
information if properly trained.   The primary burden for the increased training
requirements will fall on the IEC/?raining Division of CONAPOFA.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Family Planning Clinics by Agency and Health Region
Dominican Republic. August 1976
CONAPOFA
(in SESPAS
Region          facilities) IDSS  CEA   ADPBF   FA        PN   Private  Total
Nucleo Central       23      6      1       2      4       1      2      39
I                22       -      -       -      -      -       1      23
II                66       -      -       -      2      -       -      68
III                39       1      -       -      -       -      -      40
IV                39       2      -       -      -      -       1      42
V                 16      7      2       -      -      -       -      25
Total               205     16       3      2      6       1      4     237
Note:  A "family planning clinic" is a health facility (hospital, health center,
rural clinic or any other (private or public) outpatient facility) which
offers family planning services on a part-time or session basis,_in ad-
dition to other services such as care of the sick, first aid, immuniza-
tions, pre-natal and routine child care and nutrition education.
IDSS   -  Dominican Social Security Institute
CEA    -  State Sugar Council
ADPBF  -  Dominican Association for Family Welfare
FA     - Armed Forces
PN     - National Police
Private-  Doctors in private practice



ANNEX 7
Page 1
COMPREHENSIVE HEALTHl CARE
1.        Basic to the development of the project is the concept of com-
prehensive health care. This concept is based on the premise that hlealth
services should be available to prevent illness as well as to treat illness.
In addition, these services must be available to all persons equally: rural
and urban, wealthy and poor, the elderly, the adults, and the children.
2.        Comprehensive health care can be analyzed on three levels.  At
the primary level, health care is "promotive" and "preventive". It is pro-
motive in that it encourages indivicluals to take steps to keep themselves
healthy, e.g., by practicing good nutrition and exercising adequately.
It is preventive in that it provides immunizations or provides measures against
specific diseases. Maternal and child health care and family planning are
examples of primary level health care. Paramedical personnel are able to
provide many of these services, and need minimal facilities and equipment.
3.        At the secondary level, health care is concerned with early diag-
nosis and treatment of illness to arrest disease progress and prevent com-
plications. The early diagnosis and treatment of measles, for example,
would prevent pneumonia. Secondary health care must be provided by pro-
fessional doctors and nurses, with moderately specialized facilities and
equipment at their disposal. At the tertiary level, specialized health
care is provided to severe health cases. If disability is not preventable,
attempts are made to limit the disability. Rehabilitation is provided when
necessary. Specialized facilities and sophisticated equipment are needed, as
well as doctors and other health personnel with specialized training. The
mode of provision of health care (what level of trained health manpower is
needed) is dependent on the severity of the health problem and the level of
technical sophistication needed for hiealth intervention. A schematic repre-
sentation of a comprehensive health care system is presented below.
Comprehensive Health Care System
Level        Health Care Provided    ]'ersonnel Needed         Facility
Primary      Health promotion          Nursing Auxiliaries   Rural Clinics
Specific protection       Paraprofessionals       Community Organiza-
Other paramedics       tions
Secondary   Early diagnosis            D)octors                Health Sub-centers
Specific treatment        Professional nurses   General hospitals
N4ursing Auxiliaries
Tertiary    Disability limitation   Specialized doctors   Specialized hospitals
I)octors                General hospitals
P'rofessional nurses
Nursing Auxiliaries



ANNEX 7
Page 2
4.        For implementation, a comprehensive health care system must pro-
vide a wide range of services to the entire population and the population
must participate in utilizing these services. These two elements--provision
of services and community participation--are both the means and the ends to
a comprehensive health care system. The Dominican Republic currently lacks
the service delivery system and the population health education program nec-
essary to achieve these two elements. Health facilities are not evenly dis-
tributed: the majority are in urban centers. In addition, those facilities
offering the widest range of services are in urban areas only. Rural clinics
and sub-centers are insufficient and unevenly distributed throughout the coun-
try, and offer the only services available in rural areas. The rural popula-
tion, therefore, lacks both convenient facilities and adequate health care.
5.        The Bank project has been designed to enable the establishment of a
comprehensive health care system in the Dominican Republic. The project
will initiate activities in Health Regions I and V, thereby serving as
a first stage for the introduction of the system in the entire country.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING COURSES IN THE PROJECT
A. Technical Assistance
I. Terms of Reference for Consultant Services
1.        The final terms of reference for the consultant services will be
elaborated by the consulting firm and the Government of the Dominican Repub-
lic with the Bank's concurrence and within the frameworks described below.
a. Administration of Health Services, Information System
and Program Evaluation I/
2.        The consultants will work with and assist a national university's
faculties of Health Sciences and Social and Economic Sciences (including the
Department of Administration) and the Regional health officials of Health
Regions I and V. The consultants will:
(a)  Review the existing organization and administration of Regions I
and V within the context of the national setup and in relation to
the CONAPOFA family planning services.
(b)  Review the present data information flow and evaluation system.
(c)  Recommend an efficient system of information feedback and analysis
for improving program management.
(d)  Design a management system for Regions I and V taking into account:
(i) project objectives, work to be performed, specific behavior
desired and assignment. of responsibilities by health levels;
(ii) needed supervisory and information system for clearer directions
and effective management control;
1/   Twelve man-months of senior and twelve man-months of associate con-
sultant services.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(iii) adequate administrative back-up systems in the areas of budget-
ing, logistics and personnel;
(iv) statistical criteria for the evaluation system; and
(v) improvement of the clinic-based health program.
3.        Develop a permanent in-country health management training and or-
ganizational development program. Specifically, it should:
(a) Develop faculty capabilities in the university(ies) through in-
service learning experiences and involvement in the analysis of
existing management systems and system requirements and in the
design of new systems.
(b) Conduct workshops for top secretariat officials (SESPAS, CONAPOFA,
IDSS, other participating agencies) with the university's involve-
ment.
(c) Design and conduct specialized training seminars for supervisory
personnel.
(d) Assist CONAPOFA, SESPAS and other agencies in designing the
management of their respective training programs.
_I
b. Comprehensive Health Care/Family Planning Program
4.        The consultants will advise the faculties of the schools of medicine
participating in the project, the Regional Health Office Staff, and the _
faculty of the National Nursing School and other nursing schools participating
in the project. The consultants will:
(a) Prepare a survey schedule (proforma) for "community diagnosis" to be
used to establish the data base for program planning and progress
evaluation.
(b) Insure proper collation, analysis and interpretation of the data
collected.
1/   Twelve man-months of senior and 12 man-months of associate advisory
services.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
(c)  Assist the management consultant in the preparation of an effective
design of a health care/ family planning program, consistent with
the community needs, resources and social structures evidenced in
the "community diagnosis."
(d)  Assist the Regional Health Directors in implementation of the pro-
gram.
(e)  Advise on the proper coordination of community health care, including
family planning, and other community development activities.
(f)  Prepare a scheme on how community development workers and leaders
could be involved in educating the community in health/family
planning and in providing primary health care services.
(g)  Collaborate with the curriculum consultant to:
(i) prepare teaching materials and introduce revisions in the
medical and nursing curricula;
(ii) conduct seminars on medical and nursing education and workshops
on curriculum revision for medical and nursing faculty;
(iii) conduct continuing education program on community health/family
planning care for health and related personnel; and
(iv) assist in the recruitment and selection of key health personnel
and possible candidates for fellowships.
1/
c.  Research
5.        The consultants will work with assigned counterparts from the
participating universities, CONAPOFA and Regional Health Offices I and V.
The consultants will assist the Government in identifying, designing and
implementing research areas that are needed. Needed research includes:
(a) Delineation of the relationship of health improvement and fertility
decline output to resource input (e.g. personnel hours, contra-
ceptives distributed, etc.).
(b) Determination of additional efforts needed to expand the programs.
1/   Ten man-months of senior advisory and 36 man-months of local research
services.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
(c) Evaluation of the effectiveness and efficiency of the various
strategies to be introduced in the health/family planning deliv-
ery system.
(d) Evaluation of the various training programs.
(e) Study of the acceptance and utilization of the health/family planning
services and facilities (e.g., active clients, number of acceptors,
continuing users, couple years of protection).
(f) Study of the effectiveness of the utilization of paramedical and
paraprofessional personnel in the delivery of health/family planning
services.
(g) Determination of the relationship between economic and socio-cultural
factors and health conditions and effectiveness of different types
of health services.
(h) Study of the determinants of reproductive behavior in the Dominican
Republic.
1/
d. Modification of the Medical and Nursing Curricula
6.        The consultant must be experienced in curriculum development and
must be conversant with medical and nursing education. He or she will work
closely with selected faculties of the medical and nursing schools, the
staff of SESPAS, the IEC/Training Division of CONAPOFA, Regions I and V re-
gional staff, and the other consultants to:
(a) Review the results of the 'community diagnosis' that would have
implications for modifying medical and nursing education.
(b) Review and evaluate current medical and nursing curricula in the
light of -- (i) existing health problems and resources, (ii) national
health objectives and (iii) the tasks ahead.
(c) Organize a working group, which would meet regularly, that would be
responsible for curricular revision (this group must have defined
functions and delineated responsibilities); with this group recommend
a redesigned curriculum with integrated community health care and
family planning components.
1/   Ten man-months of consultant advisory services.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
(d) Conduct workshops involving as many faculty members and health
administrators (and some students) as possible to comment on the
revised curriculum.
(e)  Organize workshops for faculty members using the revised curriculum
for defining instructional objectives, content of specific courses,
methods of teaching, number of hours required and evaluation.
(f) Test selected modified courses in the classroom and 'feedback' for
further revision.
(g) Recommend or draft any necessary legislation, administrative orders
or contractual agreements essential for proper implementation
of curricular revisions.
(h)  Suggest follow-up procedures to keep the curriculum dynamic.
(i) Recommend faculty requirements and suggest further training needed.
1/
e. Evaluation of Physical Facilities
7.        The consultant will monitor the planning and implementation period
of the project and submit a final report which may serve as a guideline for
the development of future population projects in the country. He will attend
particularly to the method of programming, identification of needs, assess-
ment, and the impact of the design of the facilities on the efficiency of
health activities. The consultant will:
(a) Collect statistical material for evaluation.
(b)  Prepare and print questionnaires to be distributed among project
staff and users of the health services.
(c) Evaluate and summarize the questionnaires and statistical material.
(d) Submit a final report and recommendations for inclusion in the final
project report of the PIU.
1/   Six man-months of consultant advisory services.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
1/
f. Equipment Procurement
8.        The consultant will coordinate with the procurement officer and the
procurement division of the PIU. He will:
(a) Assist the procurement officer in formulating the guidelines on
equipment standards, quality, technical requirements and user
needs.
(b) Review and supplement the draft equipment list of the equipment
officer in cooperation with the PIU architect and estimate costs.
(c) Evaluate and summarize the questionnaires and statistical material.
(d) Submit a final report and recommendations for inclusion in the final
project report of the PIU.
g. Training Courses in Maintenance of Health
Facilities and Equipment 2/
9.        The consultant will assist SESPAS and the PIU in the preparation
of the outline and detailed programs for in-service training of six main-
tenance engineers (one from each Health Region). The consultant will advise
on the establishment of a permanent system of building and equipment main-
tenance in SESPAS by:
(a) Preparation of norms and programs for corrective and preventive
maintenance at the national, regional and local levels.
(b) Formulating evaluation and feedback systems for national and regional
maintenance programs.
(c) Planning in-service training programs for new staff and refresher
programs.
1/   Twelve man-months of consultant advisory services.
2/   Six man-months of consultant advisory services.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
II. Fellowships and Study Tours
10.       One 12-month fellowship (study and observation) for the educator
of the Human Resources Unit on educational planning, including curriculum
development, teaching methodologies and training strategies, in a selected
Latin American University. Observation tours could be made in other se-
lected Latin American countries.
The candidate must have had basic training in education
and in the health sciences, preferably a qualified health
educator, and must have an appointment in SESPAS.
11.       One  12-month fellowship (study and observation) for the medical
economist of the Human Resources Unit on health and manpower economics in
a selected Latin American University including observation in other coun-
tries.
The candidate must have basic training in economics
and be employed in SESPAS.
12.       One 12-month fellowship (study and observation) for the Health
Services Administration of the Human Resources Unit on the administration
of health services (planning, implementation and evaluation) in a selected
Latin American University including observation in other countries.
The candidate must have basic training in the health
sciences with some experience in administration of
health services and be connected with SESPAS.
13.        One 12-month fellowship (study and observation) on medical educa-
tion with particular emphasis on community health and family planning, in a
selected Latin American University for a faculty member of one of the medi-
cal schools.
14.        One one-month study/obsenration tour on curriculum development
and teaching methodologies for intermediate level of nursing (technical
nurses) in Venezuela and El Salvador for the nurse coordinator (Secre-
tariat of Education) of the technical nursing program.
15.        Three one-month observation tours on integrated health/family
planning services in Latin American countries for health administrators
in Regions I and V and the PIU.
16.        Two one-month observation tours on the administration of
family planning in countries with established family planning programs
(probably other than the Latin American Region) for two or three CONAPOFA
key staff.



ANNEX 8
Page 8
III. Outline of Reorganization Needs at SESPAS
17.       SESPAS' structure and management urgently need reorganization
and strengthening as a requisite for any large-scale expansion of the health
services. The Secretariat has at present limited capability for service
design, resource planning and organization of programs. There are at present
competent professionals at SESPAS, but they carry a heavy burden and their
capability for undertaking new tasks is limited. There is a need for adding
competent staff to introduce changes and improvements at the central level.
At the same time, some structural and procedural changes within SESPAS might
permit more efficient utilization of the professional expertise that does
exist.
18.       The Bank agrees with the USAID-assisted Health Sector Assessment
which proposed that the following actions would be required within SESPAS: 1/
(a) Strengthen the Planning and Programming Department;
(b) Provide increased implementation capabilities through contracts
administered by the Planning and Programming Department for:
(i) Health Services Design
(ii) Human Resources Planning
(iii) Physical Resources Planning
(iv) Organization of Health Education Programs
(c) Strengthen the regionalization program of the Secretariat more
rapidly to extend the supervision of the Secretariat tu cover
all of its facilities; and
(d) Request foreign technical assistance for major reform of the
administration and management procedures of the Secretariat.
19.       The Government recognizes the need for these actions.  These actions
would be a requisite for the successful extension of the experiences of the
proposed project in Regions I and V to other parts of the country. During
negotiations, the Government agreed to reorganize and strengthen the SESPAS,
paying special attention to the areas mentioned in para. 18, with a view toward
achieving an effective health delivery system.
I/   USAID Health Sector Assessment for the Dominican Republic, February
1975, p. 207.



ANNEX 8
Page 9
B. Training Courses
20.       The project would finance fees and stipends for tutors and lecturers
for the following courses and workshops:
Nationwide
(a) Fifty days of courses in family planning and maternal and child
care for 400 field workers from ODC, the State Sugar Council (CEA),
the Dominican Agrarian Institute and the Department of Agricul-
tural Extension of the Secretariat of Agriculture throughout the
country (responsibility of CONAPOFA, SESPAS, and the agencies men-
tioned);
(b) Social workers' fees and stipends for conducting group meetings to
reach over 130,000 persons in three years (responsibility, same as
in (a) above);
(c) One national and nine Regional seminars, of one week's duration
each, for 25-30 teaching school educators throughout the country,
to reach about 300 teachers in three years (responsibility of
CONAPOFA, a university);
Regions I and V
(d) Ten seminars of approximately one week's duration for 70 adminis-
trators and health personnel on comprehensive community health/
family planning services in Regions I and V (responsibility of
SESPAS, CONAPOFA, INTEC);
(e) Six courses on community health work of two weeks' duration for
paraprofessional workers, Regions I and'V (responsibility of
SESPAS, CONAPOFA, INTEC, UNPHU, other universities); and
(f) Five seminars of five days' duration in laboratory techniques and
maintenance of laboratory equipment for about 125 health workers
in Regions I and V (responsibility of SESPAS, a university).



ANNEX 9
Page 1
PROGRAM OF COMMUNITY-BASED DISTRIBUTION OF CONTRACEPTIVES
Introduction
1.        The project includes a component consisting of a program for com-
munity-based distribution of contraceptives (CBD) to be implemented by the
Social Service of Dominican Churches (SSID) under the supervision of CONAPOFA.
This component is intended to complement the project activities by making
contraceptives available to persons living in areas not yet covered by health
and family planning services. The CBD services would be discontinued in
those locations where Government health and family planning services start
operating; program resources would be transferred to other locations not yet
covered by those services.
2.        The SSID is currently carrying out its CBD program in four provinces.
As of June 1976, it reported 10,400 accumulated new acceptors; 9,100 were
active family planning users as of that date. The goals of this project com-
ponent are (a) to recruit 1,000 new acceptors per month in eight provinces
(including the four provinces already being served by the program) and (b)
to continue rendering regular services to the 9,100 users. The project would
finance 80% of the operating costs of this component, consisting of salaries
for 11 staff, travel expenses and training of 200 voluntary distributors;
the total operating costs amount to US$77,000 equivalent per year.
The SSID
3.        The Social Service of Dominican Churches is the first institution
that undertook family planning activities in the Dominican Republic. It was
organized in 1962 by five denominations of Protestant churches with the ob-
jective of implementing several programs intended to improve the socio-econo-
mic level of the poor sectors of the Dominican population. In 1964, the SSID
was legally chartered. It is currently governed by a Directing Council that
represents 17 denominations and 600 Protestant churches. Since its establish-
ment, the SSID has been financially supported by the Church World Service.
Presently, a Resident Representative of the Church World Service is also
serving as Associate Director of the SSID; he is responsible for monitoring
and advising on the programs for which funds are made available from several
sources.
4.         In 1972, the SSID started a CBD program in three provinces (Barahona,
La Altagracia and Duarte) with the financial support of Family Planning Inter-
national Assistance. Other programs the SSID has implemented include:
(a) Community development: consisting of promotion of projects for
construction of feeder roads, road repair, aqueducts and sewerage,
financing of small agricultural projects, etc., using the mutual
assistance and self-help approach;



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(b) Medical equipment and medicines: a program consisting of the
distribution of medical mtterial for use in hospitals and other
institutions;
(c) Emergencies: programs to provide assistance in case of epidemics,
drought and other disasters with social repercussions;
(d)  Family welfare:  promotion of projects to establish nutrition
centers, child health care clinics and mothers' clubs, to which
- the SSID contributes food, drugs, sewing machines and contracep-
tives; and
(e) Family planning: education and distribution of contraceptives
through SSID nutrition centers and local distributors.
5.        The offices of the SSID are located in the commercial area of Santo
Domingo.  It also has a warehouse in Santo Domingo and two in the interior
(San Juan de la Maguana and San Francisco de Macoris.  The general budget of
the SSID for 1976 is US$205,580 equ:Lvalent, of which US$149,580 is contributed
by the Dominican Government, US$30,000 by the Church World Service and
US$26,000 by local churches.
The CBD Component
6.   The Bank project will include a program for community-based distribution
of contraceptives (CBD) to be implemented by the SSID under the supervision of
CONAPOFA. The CBD component consist:s of education in family planning and dis-
tribution of contraceptives in 200 ]ocalities (a) with more than 2,000 popula-
tion each and (b) where no basic health services are presently available,
located in the following eight provinces: La Altagracia, La Romana, San Pedro
de Macoris and El Seibo (comprising all of Health Region V, which is a Bank
project area); San Cristobal and Santo Domingo ("Nucleo Central", densely
populated, with poor health services for the urban poor population); and La
Vega and Duarte (in Health Region III, which has large gaps in health service
coverage). Selection of these areas took into account the expected unavail-
ability of services over the next three years. As health services become
available through the Bank project or through USAID's basic health service
("promotors") project, the SSID would move its program resources to other lo-
calities.
7.        The goals of the component consist of (a) recruiting 1,000 new ac-
ceptors per month (12,000 per year), (b) servicing the current 9,100 regular
contraceptive users, and (c) servicing all those who become regular users
during the project period. The present staff (a Director, an assistant, a medi-
cal assistant, one secretary and four provincial coordinatori will be expanded
with the recruitment of four additional provincial coordinators. The eight
coordinators will be responsible for recruiting (within three months of the
project's initiation) 25 voluntary distributors each. There are already 102
voluntary distributors working in the program.   The services will be made
available to all persons living in the communities covered. The distributor



ANNEX 9
Page 3
will not receive any payment for his/hef/work, but he/she will keep, as
incentive, 15 cents for each unit sold.- The SSID will receive 10 cents
for each unit, and these returns will be applied to the operations of the
program.
8.        The objectives of the CBD component are:
(a) To educate, guide and motivate women and men in fertile ages to
adopt family planning methods, in SSID nutrition centers, re-
habilitation centers, mothers' clubs, agricultural and other or-
ganizations of the SSID community development program, and in
community meetings promoted by the coordinators and distributors;
(b) To create "multipliers" (community leaders and satisfied users and
professionals);
(c) To distribute non-clinical contraceptives in the community, without
medical supervision;
(d) To distribute oral contraceptives in the community, which have been
prescribed by medical or paramedical personnel and to refer new
cases to CONAPOFA/SESPAS clinics;
(e) To offer contraceptives of all types in SSID child health care and
medical clinics, and in SSID nutrition and rehabilitation centers;
and
(f) To motivate physicians, nurses and auxiliaries to give voluntary
family planning services.
9.        The timetable of this component is included at the end of this Annex.
10.       The project would finance 80% of the operating costs of SSID's CBD
program for a period of three years. The Government of the Dominican Republic
has supported the family planning and other activities of this organization in
the past and it will continue this support after the project completion.
1/ A "unit" is one pill cycle, one foam can, or twelve condoms.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
SSID - Community-based Distribution
of Contraceptives Component - Timetable
Activities                                           Date             Responsibility
I. Administration
Planning and Revision of Program          Oct-Dec. 1976        (  CONAPOFA
( SSID
Recruiting and training of distributors Jan-Mar. 1977             SSID
Review of income statements               Project duration   (  SSID Director
( CWS Advisor 1/
Re-training of distributors               May-Jun. 1977           CONAPOFA
Re-training of coordinators               April 1977              CONAPOFA
Collection and analysis of statistics   Project duration         SSID
Progress and financial reports            March, June,            SSID
Sept., Dec. of
each year
Evaluation of program goals               March, June,            SSID
Sept., Dec. of
each year
Coordination with CONAPOFA, ADPBF,etc.  Project duration          SSID
II.  Information and Education. Plan completed  Jan. 1977           (  SSID
( CONAPOFA
Availability of audiovisual equipment   Jan. 1977                 CONAPOFA
Use of radio, beginning                   Jan. 1977               SSID
Distribution of educational material    Project duration          SSID
Projection of films, slides               Project duration        SSID
Meetings of Coordinators with
distributors                            monthly                SSID
Questionnaires to coordinators         ( Feb.,April, June,        SSID
and distributors                     ( Aug.,Oct.,Dec.
Evaluation of Information/Educa-       ( March, June,             SSID
tion plan                            ( Sept., Dec.
III. Distribution and sale of contraceptives
Preparation and revision of forms to
be used, completed                      Jan. 1977               SSID
Establishment of goals for coordina-
tors and distributors                   Jan. 1977              SSID
Warehouses' inventory, up to date         Project duration        SSID
Sales evaluation                          Project duration   ( SSID
CWS 1/
Coordinators' and distributors'                                ( SSID
evaluation                              quarterly           (  CONAPOFA
1/ CWS - Church World Service



ANNEX 10
Page 1
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Personnel Terms of Reference
1.        Proiect Director.  The Project Director would be a senior profes-
sional from the field of public health with experience in field operations.
He would be responsible for overall management of project operations.   As
noted, he would be responsible for preparing and submitting quarterly reports
on project progress referring to the status of implementation of actions
described in the schedule of project implementation for construction (Annex
11) and for program components (Table 1).   The specific functions of the
Director would be inter alia to:
(a)  Prepare detailed project schedule and budget;
(b)  Assign jobs to full-time project staff;
(c)  Plan, guide, and periodically evaluate the implementation of
the project activities at the national and regional levels, with
the assistance of staff, consultants and the deputy director;
(d)  Negotiate with contractors (with the assistance of the Project
Architect), and work with SESPAS' Division of Nursing, Planning
and Programming Department and the Division of Health Education,
CONAPOFA, the community development groups participating in the
project, Secretariat of Education, the universities and other re-
lated Government and non-Government agencies, in relation to
manpower recruitment, training, funds equipment and work assign-
ments;
(e)  Convene progress meetings at least every four months, chaired by
the Secretary of Health and attended by representatives of all
agencies participating in the project;
(f)  Promote cooperation with the project among officials and staff of
SESPAS, CONAPOFA, universities, ADPBF, IDSS CEA and others, both
at the national and regional levels;
(g)  Ensure that the work gets done on schedule;
(h)  Prepare quarterly progress reports for the hational authorities
and the Bank, as required;
(i)  Ensure that Government commitments are fulfilled;  and
(j)  Promote staff morale.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
2.        The Deputy Director will be a professional from the field of
public health, with a Masters in Public Health and at least five years of
experience in field operations and program planning.   The person's back-
ground and references should demonstrate leadership qualities and adminis-
trative capability.
3.        The functions of the Deputy Director will consist of assisting
the Director of the project in the general management of project operations;
particularly, he/she will assist the Director, inter alia, in the following:
(a)  Planning, guiding and supervising the implementation of project
activities at the national level (with the cooperation of the
training coordinator and the architect) and at the Regional
levels (with the Directors of Health Regions I and V);
(b) Promote cooperation with the project among the staff of SESPAS,
CONAPOFA, universities and other agencies, both at the national
and regional levels;
(c) Ensure that work gets done on schedule;
(d) Prepare quarterly progress reports for the national authorities
and the Bank, as required;
(e) Liaise between the national and regional components of the project;
(f)  Prepare contracts to obtain the services of consultants;  and
(g) Prepare the annual budget for the project.
Functional areas
4.        The PIU will be divided into four functional areas, each headed by
an individual with specific responsibilities.
5.        Administration and Accounting activities would be performed by one
administrator, one accountant and support staff. They would be responsible
for staff services related to budgeting, collection, disbursements and other
financial matters. They would also provide the Unit with effective services
relating to personnel, information, supplies and custodial services. Their
specific functions would be to:
(a) Develop and prepare fund and budgetary estimates in support of
the project's operations, plans and programs;
(b) Prepare annual financial work plans and other financial reports
that may be required by management and higher authorities;
(c) Allocate available funds to programs on the basis of project
guidelines and the schedule of implementation;



ANNEX 10
Page 3
(d) Receive, collect and deposit cash;
(e) Prepare payrolls and process vouchers for payment of obliga-
tions;
(f) Prepare applications for disbursement by the Bank; and
(g) Perform such other functions as may be necessary.
6.        The Construction activities would be directed by the project archi-
tect. Supporting staff would comprise one assistant architect and one project
engineer. Further technical and clerical staff would be assigned from time
to time, as required.   The project architect and his supporting staff will:
(a) Assist in the selection and acquisition of sites where sites have
not yet been selected or acquired, and compile necessary site in-
formation;
(b) Prepare contracts for professional services required for the execu-
tion of the project (surveyors, architects, clerks of works, and
consultants);
(c) Evaluate designs and working drawings and make recommendations for
their approval;
(d) Establish standards of construction and cost limits;
(e) Establish criteria for adopting the design of the rural clinics to
individual site conditions;
(f) Prepare specifications and contract documents and review specifica-
tions and contract documents prepared by private architects;
(g)  Make recommendations to the Project Director for tendering procedures,
bid evaluation, and awards of contracts;
(h) Prepare cost analyses and exercise continuous cost control;
(i) Make periodical inspection visits to the construction sites, ensure
that efficient on-site supervision is carried out and attend re-
gular site meetings;
(j) Prepare an overall implementation schedule and monthly reports on
construction progress, showing actual against estimated progress;
(k) Advise the Project Director on all architectural and construction
matters arising during the construction period;
(1) Accept completed construction work and follow-up on contractors'
liability;



ANNEX 10
Page 4
(m)  Establish procedures and initiate programs for preventive and
curative maintenance of buildings and equipment, and cooperate
with a maintenance consultant in the training of regional
maintenance engineers; and
(n) Prepare a critical project completion report.
7.        Procurement activities will be directed by a Procurement Officer
(P.O.). The P.O. should work in a team closely connected to the architect's
team in the PIU, and will be advised by a procurement (equipment) consultant
provided under technical assistance of this project (whose outline terms of
reference are given in Annex 8). At least one member of the procurement
team should be familiar with hospital and teaching equipment and one member
experienced with local and international procurement procedures; the P.O.
will familiarize himself with and observe the Bank's guidelines of procure-
ment.   The main objectives of the P.O. will be to:
(a) Coordinate all matters related to procurement of equipment,
special equipment and vehicles;
(b) Prepare a detailed schedule of procurement activities, coordinated
and updated to the PIU's overall program schedule;
(c) Assess needs, standards and priorities for the equipment;
(d) List and price needed equipment and review the list with the
architect and staff in charge, taking into account users' re-
quirements for operating, maintaining and repairing quality;
(e) Prepare the technical specification and conditions of contracts
for supply and maintenance;
(f) Group the items for equipment into meaningful packages by suppliers'
scope, capacity and time of supply;
(g) Organize and prepare the contracts (to be signed by the Project
Director), supervise the supply, installation, acceptance,
handing-over, insurance and operation of the goods; and
(h) Inform the Project Director on all phases of procedures and of
any change or difficulty; he will ensure that the Bank will be
consulted before decisions are taken and will finally ascertain
that appropriate funds will be allocated.
8.        The Training activities would be headed by the Training Coordinator,
an assistant and support staff to be assigned as required from time to time.
The Training Coordinator would be responsible for coordinating and helping to
organize all training activities of national scope included in the project.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
He would also assist the Director and the Deputy Director of the project
in carrying out their functions as overseers and coordinators of all project
training activities at the national level. The specific functions will be
to:
(a) Work closely with CONAPOFA, ODC, CEA, the Dominican Agrarian In-
stitute and the Department of Agricultural Extension of the
Secretariat of Agriculture, and SESPAS Division of Nursing, the
Planning and Programming Department and the Division of Health
Education, as well as with participating universities and the
Secretariat of Education, in planning, organizing, executing and
evaluating the training components of the project at the national
level;
(b) Set criteria for selection of fellowships, prepare lists of candi-
dates for submission to the Project Director and Deputy Director
for concurrence, and make necessary arrangements for their assign-
ment to training institutions;
(c)  Facilitate the activities of the various participating training
agencies so that the project will operate according to schedule;
and
(d) Serve as a liaison between the national and regional training pro-
ject components.



Table I
Proiect Implementation Schedule
1975F     -      1976                       1977                        1978                  
. a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FMA M J JAS O N D  _ F M A9  J J A S ___   _ -   X                                                       i A   0 R4   j t| tm |A I  S|N
_.Workshops on preparation frregionalization (Regio I)                                                                         -e                          LL L    
(Regzion_V has been completed) _____H                                 .___ 
b. Study tour for project architect to Mexico                       X           _           ______            __        ____________ 
c. Study tour in community medicine (Colombia)                      X   + t         |i4+ +__+                               -e
d. Curriculumn developmerit for "technical nursing"i                X TEtH  
e. Appointment of nurse coordinator for "technical                      t t_          S~       t     t     t__t_____r       
f. Creation of Interministerial Committee )Secretariat of                       _ IIII I 11 I                   I II                                        III1iIIiII
Education & Secretariat of Health) for technical  _      ___________    1:1111
gz. Pedazo&,icLaIl triaining of 20 nursing tutors                                                             I I___s1           I I I  T I1--                        
th. 'tiermso greet betweent Seiretariat of liealth arnd >H-__t               
2.  Administration (SESPAS, CONAPOFA)                              -       4]T        I++_                                                     _T i                          E
a. C  reation   PI7 apite ofsaff for the PIU (National)-                                                                            1       _                            31    
b . Establish statistical system                                         I                              -11111111+                                   TI1       Xw 
I  c  Wppoit Regional FP Tr-aining C~o-ordinatorsand sLp-porting          IIIII i   III   IIIIIIIIIIItI Itt-                                          III !I! |      I1i
r- ~~staff (CONAPOFA) -111111}}  tl!il
t  d.  ppofn  othr stayffnot supported by project                       i                                       t+|ltlllI 2     
- kegional Nurse Supervisor (Rgeions I and V)   X r
- Regional Health Educator (Regions I and V)_      ' --
X -Cornpleted



1-97h[                      1977                       1978                        1979
_________  =___________________  __       _      _           |        p             | F-  l  A    P. iA  s ,   N  D     J   F  MA     M   _I      AS    O _ N   _   _   F   M   A   A    sic'A s -
- Regional Maintenance Engineers (legions 1 and V)                                  t             r_ 
Regional Statistician (Regions I and V1)                                         -4                 _
- Nursing Auxiliaries for vacant positionis and new positions
to be created by the project
3.  Training of Nursing Personnel
a. Opening of new auxiliary nursing school (Region I)
b. Pedagogical training of new nursing facultyv
c. Initiation of technical nursing course in  our  iceos
d. Technical training of practical nuirses
e. Fellowships for ntirsing personnel  -
t. Training of atuxiliary and graduate nuLirses in MCH/FP
4.  Community-Based Health/family i'lannlilitig I'rogram in Regions I
__and V  SESAS, Universities and (:onsultants)
a. compilation oF-existing programs aia-7Tiomaunity  ata
including social structures and resouirces and other
socie-culturull determinants o-b-eaTtl  behavior
b. Workshops on project objectives and evaluation
c. Community diagnosis (Regions T and V)    _________  _ 1
d. Definition of tasks and responsibilities by health
level and sub-svstem units (Regions I and V)
I_________________________   I1- 1 11111-VI-    |  |  -t -  ,  .L   ji1ii1  1i 1  i_



1 97t,                         ' 91 }                         19 / -1979
_= 7Vi77L9                                                                                        ; _           <i      tA> ', () I    . N I !;   I j I i '  I A  i  1 i-. i |  r  p      St                    _         _1 A  i  IS  O N  DiJ F M A  M 4- .
_    .Lein train lng programs b.ised ori traAnntig ne-eks; js                        t:-        -    -      |-       IIIIi                        |i                                                 -t|
t L4e.rE ex,,.
__.  Pl:n improvement of clin c-liospit.il ha,edl healtlh  serv;ces                 L           j          _          _    .A      1it{[{I                 L    t                              J    L      zt
k. f  Review      ophs eine w equcptes      e                                                                                                                                                     1       TI
__                                                                                                                                                                                              ---t              t x7_XX -1i0
Worsho neit         qlaboratory Lechniques and miuinLenance ol                                                                                                                            I       tt0t -D   I I 1    | !:v
|  _     Dcsgn spervsoryi,npoveent and tra n s,ipervisorF                                                                                                       -tIIIH             t    
1 n Imlemnt he ollmtlityb.sed/family plann ng progralm ll1Wjf111-    
I      o--._Institute organizat onal *ievelopment  nterveTItionsIII                                I    III        Ii         I                                     
5|R     o         r a      gP  gram  (;e g oii s I a lcl 5' ULJjv e r4 cs in Li er s i it -nd
|   a, Design sche(tile of tra.ning~ activ't es by pr;or:tv 'reler   j[r                                                                                                              
{ to ~~~tra niv,, demaud1: ml 4.i)      j   |vtJ  t0: IIII:_I
___          _b._Design_train_ n  coursesw l\h well-defined  instructioiial
ties  -c_ntengt, meL.tluat on                                                     ob hlo-ogy, reso)urce peoplce,   j  S  T    }    g    )    f    i    j_   t-|-
i __c. Impleiiietit training programs _|t|{it1   -      
|  19 Peparethe regionls for the commilnity experience of tile                                      L- <-                                          |     i             -t1                >1
|-medical zindi nursing studlents                                                                   l_                            III    - 4           .        _           -_--   _   ,         II o  
|- Select    the    .are.as    to    be    usedI I I I I I I I II I I                                                                  I I I I      I I I      I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I t             |     I
p  _     tion,  health faciliti-s,  st.Lffing resources, etc.)                      }]]j         ) 1iS                                                  1     10      ffI         m        lll        ll       T
| _P-repare preceptors for students IjIIEet



_                                                     1           ~~~~~~~~~                               ~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~197 6  l 9 77  1978  1979
____    =                     _        __   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~j = F    IA  A!                        2  I' <  t]'H,. [_H     N DJ FM A            DM  J J A S O                    
- Preace edclv and Nursoaiong  tdns    in th  field                                           F            =      --L~~~                              ~~~~~__                   H 
-P]-ace Med~ical andnt iusX                n_r  q      the fielJ_-dr                                     f_. _
Prepare  the - helth staff (delineate their functions in               _
- Design *urvey schedule_                                                                                          tk    ____               _____________. 
_ Infrm the community           _              _______ _______ ______
_ IFsign scheme for deployment of student and supervision
-Define roie of students in relation to Lie health Lea,s
ig. 'feeda  '  to the community ofsurvey resulits
_f   Organize wor k ps and seminars for the stuidy and modifica-
tion of the medical and nursing curricula
. Desig,n and implement tr-snlnp progr,m for community workers
h.  Design and implement training program for -rom unity leaders
and volunteers
6.  Res -      (Consultants, SESPAS,    APFA and .Uv. e r sit e  .
a. Study relevant researches needed
b.  esin,  rocss,anayzeandintrpret results of
__esLearches e.g . y    tt       +_If__+     
- Community diagnosis                        ___*_
_ Program review
_ _ _        _         ____                                                  _~~~   K   L  L   T  h                                                                     m   .L



._  . _ __    ____  . ___  _______    ___._   _                ~1976                          1 977                        1978                         1979
a. Advisory_ services                                                                          S  L     _JJ                                    M(F                          M      |
i)L  In ainistration of health services and inifonration
- Senior ConSIltant   _                                                                                                   _____
-_ Associate Consultant                           ___*_* *_
(fi   Incoiaunty-ased health program           ________
- Senior ConSulltant                                                            i LE 
- Associate Consultant
jli Tn Research               ____    ____
-Senior Consultant , . -_____III________
-Researchi Services (local uniiversities)
(iv)  In  facilities evaluation  study ____
(v)  Furniture and Equipment |||___
(vi)  Maintenanice training courase    ________-
vii   Review and modification of medical and nursing
curricula   _                _          _    _    _    _     _
Senior Consultant                 _                                                                 I' 
h.Fellowship     (tdy and-observationi)
(i)  Educator__                                _ _  _  _  _   _  _  __'
L-_   (ii)  Medical Economist                    _|_______| |____ttt!__i;__
(iii)  Health Adminiistrator                                                                                                                                                          r
(iv)  Medical education (emphasis on community health care) S   t   i    h  p   ____             _     _          i          L       LLE --            L  -                      '
_(v)  Study tours              (        cmuiyhalLh/family planning) }j|jtqC<r>>_     
__ ~ ~~~~__Somnt  he                                                                                                       II         ,       IIL                 I II1 .'  



CHART I
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC - POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT (PIU)
|  GODR|.l
-   -   -_1                            - -        -    -           _    IBRD 
CONUPOFA                                   PRJETDIRECTOR
5 DEPUTY DIRECTOR
REGIONAL HEALTH
DIRECTOR
PROCURENT          FG                    FADMIN.jACCT.
ONSULTANT IN  1      CONSULTANT IN 1        CONSULTANT IN 1
EVALUAT.STUDY        -PROCUREMENT           -ADMINISTR. &                                      SUPPORTING
RAIN. 1RAINING              OUTPMENT          INFORM.SYSTEMS                                      STAFF 2
-COMM. HEALTH.                                                            x
-RESEARCH
-MEDICAL CURRIC
-NURSING CURRIC
1/ Terms of reference for Consultants and man-months described in Annex 8.
2/ Details on chart "Regional Health Organization".



CHART II
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC - REGIONAL HEALTH ORGANIZATION
r  REGIONAL HEALTH l
DIRECTOR
HEALTH EDUCATOR          NURSE             STATlSTICIA      lSlCINEE|                 AI I STATVl l
AREA DIRECTOR            AREA DIRECTOR   |AREA DRECTOR                     'AREA DIRECTOR
HOSPITALS          ,    l     HOSPITALS              1
HEALTH SUB CENTER
RURAL CLINICS          J     RURAL CLINICS
MEDICAL DISPENSARIES



ANNEX 11
Civil Works
Table of Contents
Page No.
Cost Estimate
Health Sub-Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rural Clinics - Region I  . . . . . . . . . . .    2
- Region V  . . . . . . . . . . .   3
Health Facilities in - Region I  . . . . . . . . . . 4 - 5
- Region V  . . . . . . . . . . 6 - 7
Tentative Location of Project Facilities
--Region I . . . . . . .    8
-Region V . . . . . . .    9
Project Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . .   10
Criteria and Preparation for Site Selection  . . . .   11



ANNEX 11
Page 1
Health Sub-Center (1)
Cost of           For-
Calculation  one unit  Local eign   Total
Basis        US$         %     %      Cost       Local    Foreign
1.  Site Work            10% of 2        50,700      70    30    50,700    35,500    15,200
2.  Construction         $195/m2        507,000      70    30   507,000   354,900   152,100
3.  Prov. Cost Var.        -
4. Prof. Fees for
Construction      12% of (1+2)    66,900    100             66,900    66,900        -
5.  Furniture & Equip. 3 % of 2         177,500      30    70   177,500    53,200   124,300
6.  Prov. Cost Var.        -
7. Prof. Fees for
Equipment        5% of 5           8,900    100             8,900      8,900       -
Totals:
8.  Civil Works          1 +2+ 3        557,700                  557,700   390,400   167,300
9.  Furniture & Equip. 5 +6             177,500                   177,500    53,200   124,300
10. Fees                 4+ 7            75,800                    75,800    75,800        -
11. Total Baseline Cost8+ 9+ 10         811,000                  811,000   519,400   291,600
100%        64%        36%



Rural Clinics - Region I - 11 Units
Cost of                      Total
Calculation   one unit  Local  Foreign    Cost
Basis         US$        %      %        (x 11)      Local       Foreign
1.  Site Work                     20% of 2          7,500     70      30      82,500      57,700       24,800
2.  Construction                  $155/mr2        37,400      70      30     411,400    288,000    123,400
3.  Prov. Cost Variation          5% of 2           1,900     70      30       20,900      14,600       6,300
4.  Prof. fees for Construction 9% of 1+2+3        4,200    100        -      46,200       46,200         -
5.  Furniture and Equipment       36% of 2        13,700      50      50     150,700       75,350      75,350
6.  Prov. Cost Variation          5% of 5             700     50      50        7,700       3,850       3,850
7.  Prof. fees for Equipment    5% of 5               700    100       -        7,700       7,700
Totals
8.  Civil Works                   1 + 2 + 3       46,800                     514,800    360,300    154,500
9.  Furniture and Equipment       5 + 6           14,400                     158,400       79,200      79,200
10.  Fees                          4 + 7            4,900                       53,900      53,900
Total Baseline Cost               8 + 9 + 10      66,100                      727,100    493,400    233,700
100%         68%         32%
xQ
I'



Rural Clinics - Region V - 15 Units
Cost of                      Total
Calculation   one unit  Local  Foreign    Cost
Basis         US$        %       %        (x 15)      Local      Foreign
1.  Site Work                     20% of 2         7,500      70     30     112,500      78,750      33,750
2.  Construction                  $155/mr2        37,400      70     30     561,000    392,700    168,300
3.  Prov. Cost Variation          5% of 2          1,900      70     30       28,500     19,950       8,550
4.  Prof. fees for Construction 9% of 1+2+3        4,200    100       -      63,000      63,000           -
5.  Furniture and Equipment       36% of 2        13,700     50      50     205,500    102,750    102,750
6.  Prov. Cost Variation          5% of 5            700      50     50       10,500      5,250       5,250
7.  Prof. fees for Equipment    5% of 5              700    100       -      10,500      10,500          -
Totals
8.  Civil Works                   1 + 2 + 3       46,800                    702,000    491,400    210,600
9.  Furniture and Equipment       5 + 6           14,400                    216,000    108,000    108,000
10.  Fees                          4 + 7            4,900                     73,500      73,500           -
Total Baseline Cost               8 + 9 + 10      66,100                    991,500    672,900    318,600
100%        68%         32%
e K
I-..



ANNEX 11
Page   4
HEALTH FACILITIES 1IN REGION I: EXISTING AND PROPOSED
Existing2/       Proposed
Province: Peravia
San Jose de Ocoa                               HG(58)
Bani                                           HG(128)
PC(IDSS)
Las Calderas                                    CR
Nizao                                           CR
Pizarrete                                       CR
Rancho Arriba                                   OR
Las Carreras                                                      CR
Los Yaguarizos                                                     CR
El Carreton                                                       CR
7                 3
Province: Azua
Azua                                            HG(73)
PC(IDSS)
Padre las Casas                                 SC(17)
Guayabal                                        SC(9)
Sabana Yegua                                    CR
Peralta                                                            CR
Cruz de las Yayas                                                 CR
Estebania                                                         CR
5                 3
Province:  San Juan
San Juan                                        HG(190)
PC(IDSS)
Las Matas de Farfan                             HG(70)
El Cercado                                     SC(7)
Carrera de Yegua                                CR
Matayaya                                        CR
Sabana Alta                                     CR                 CR
La Florida                                                        CR
El Batey                                                          CR
Jinova                                                            CR
7                 4
Province: Estrelleta
Elias Pina                                     HG(50)
Banica                                         SC(5)
Hondo Valle                                     SC (8)
San Rafael del Llano                            CR
Pedro Santana                                   CR
Sabana Larga                                    CR
Rinconcito                                                        CR
6                 1
For footnotes and key - see n;xt page



ANNEX 11
Page 5
TOTAL
Existing:         6 Hospitals (569 beds)
5 Sub-Centers (46 beds)
11 Rural Clinics
3 Polyclinics (IDSS)
Proposed:        11 Rural Clinics
1/ Facilities operated by SESPAS unless otherwise noted.
2/ In addition, SESPAS operates seven (7) medical dispensaries (one each
in Peravia and San Juan, two in Estrelleta, and three in Azua), accord-
ing to the latest SESPAS survey data (January 1975) and updated in-
formation received from SESPAS in March 1976. The source for data for
IDSS facilities was Plan de Desarrollo de la Seguridad Social, 1974-
1978.
Key:  HG  -  Integrated or General Hospital
HB  -  Hospital "Class B" (IDSS)
HC  -  Hospital "Class C" (IDSS)
SC  -  Health Sub-Center
PC  -  Polyclinic (IDSS)
CR  -  Rural Clinic (Clinica Rural)
CS  -  Health Center (Centro Sanitario)



ANNEX 1
Page 6
HEALTH FACILITIES   IN REGION V: EXISTING AND PROPOSED
Existing        Proposed
Province: La Altagracia
Higuey                                         HG(50)
San Rafael del Yuma                            SC(8)
Boca de Yuma                                    CR                CR
La Laguna                                                         CR
Hato de Mana                                                      CR
La Ceiba                                                          CR
El Salado                                                         CR
Batey Magdalena                                                   CR
3                 6
Province- La Romana
la Romana                                      HG(50)
HB(IDSS)(250)
CS
Isla Saona                                      SC(6)
Guaymate                                        CR
Higueral                                                          CR
5                 1
Province: San Pedro de Macoris
San Pedro de Macoris                            HG(50)
CS
Ramon Santana                                   HG(16)
Ingenio Quisqueya                              HC(IDSS)(21)
Consuelo                                       SC(15)
PC(IDSS)
Los Llanos                                      SC(17)
Juan Dolio (Guayacanes)                         CR
El Puerto                                       CR
Boca del Soco                                                     CR
Santa Fe                                                           CR
9                 2
Province: El Seibo
El Seibo                                       HG(89)
Sabana de la Mar                                HG(33)
Hato Mayor                                      SC(16)             SC(30)
Miches                                          SC(20)
Pedro Sanchez                                   CR
El Valle                                        CR
Las Cuchillas                                                      CR
Canada de Agua                                                     CR
El Cedro                                                           CR
Vicentillo                                                         CR
Las Canitas                                                        CR
Las Pajas                                                          CR
6                 7



ANNEX ll
Page 7
HEALTH FACILIITES1/ IN REGICN V: EXISTING AND PROPOSED (Cont'd)
Total
Existing:   6 Hospitals (288 beds)
2 Hospitals (IDSS)(271 beds)
6 Sub-centers (82 bedis)
6 Rural clinics
2 Health Centers
1 Polyclinic (IDSS)
Proposed:   1 Sub-center
15 Rural Clinics
1/ Facilities operated by SESPAS unless otherwise noted.
2/ In addition,SESPAS operates seven (7) medical dispensaries (three in
Altagracia, two in El Seibo, and one each in San Pedro de Macoris and
La Romana), according to the latest SESPAS survey data (January 1975)
and updated information received from SESPAS in March 1976. The source
for data for IDSS facilities was Plan de Desarrollo de la Seguridad Social,
1974-78. The AID survey (February 1975) indicated six additional out-
patient clinics operated by IDSS, and 40 health facilities in the private
sector (17 hospitals and 23 outpatient facilities).
Key:  HG  -  Integrated or General Hospital
HB  -  Hospital "Class B" (IDSS)
HC  -  Hospital "Class C" (IDSS)
SC  -  Health Sub-Center
PC  - Polyclinic (IDSS)
CR  -  Rural Clinic (Clinica Rural)
CS  -  Health Center (Centro Sanitario)



ANNEK 11
Page 8
Tentative Location of Project Facilities
Region I
Munici-
Province         pality            Location
Rural Clinic 1        San Juan         El Llano          Sabana Alta
Rural Clinic 2        San Juan         San Juan          La Florida
Rural Clinic 3        San Juan         San Juan          Jinova
Rural Clinic h        San Juan         San Juan          El Batey
Rural Clinic 5        Azua             Azua              Cruz de las Yayas
Rural Clinic 6        Azua             Peralta           Peralta
Rural Clinic 7        Azua             Azua              Estebanfa
Rural Clinic 8        Estrelleta       Elfas Pi'nas      Rinconcito
Rural Clinic 9        Peravia          Banf              El Carreton
Rural Clinic 10       Peravia          Bani              Las Carreras
Rural Clinic 11       Peravia          Bani              Los Yaguarizos



ANNEX 11
Page 9
Tentative Location of Project Facilities
Region V
Munici-
Province         palit             Location
Health Sub-center    El Seibo          Hato Mayor        Hato Mayor
Rural Clinic 1        La Altagracia   Higuey             Hato de Mana
Rural Clinic 2        La Altagracia  Higuey              La Ceiba
Rural Clinic 3        La Altagracia   Higuey             La Laguna
Rural Clinic 4        La Altagracia   San Rafael del
Yuma         Boca de Yuma
Rural Clinic 5        La Altagracia   Higuey             El Salado
Rural Clinic 6        La Altagra3ia   Higuey             Batey Magdalena
Rural Clinic 7        La Romana        La Romana         Higueral
Rural Clinic 8        San Pedro        Ramo"n Santana    Boca del Soco
de Mae or s
Rural Clinic 9        San Pedro        San Pedro         Santa Fe
de Macorfs       de Macorfs
Rural Clinic 10       El Seibo         El Seibo          Las Cuchillas
Rural Clinic 11       El Seibo         El Seibo          Canada de Agua
Rural Clinic 12       El Seibo         Miches            El Cedrc
Rural Clinic 13       El Seibo         El Seibo          Vicentillo
Rural Clinic 14       El Seibo         Sabana de la      Las Canitas
Mar
Rural Clinic 15       El Seibo         Hato Mayor        Las Pajas



Pro-i-ct  mplemeltatLin Sthedule - Civ-l Works  Furniture and Eauip,ent
Dfieriv   a- it.
Ap- f -; F                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TWJ al
Co.lo     at 
Eval.aton o   Pavei-1Ff 1-i------



ANNEX 11
Page 11
Criteria for Site Selection
1.        The desirable characteristics of the sites required for the two
types of buildings included in the project differ according to functions.
Before acquiring the individual sites the following criteria should be taken
into account:
a.   Rural Clinics will be located in communities of 2,500 to 3,000 in-
habitants within the immediate area of 5Km. distance from the
clinic (one hour on foot) and about 12,000 people in the 10Km.
radius of the extended area. The success of the innovative compre-
hensive approach to community health care and the community's
active response will depend, inter alia, on the socio-economic
suitability of the site for the clinic - e.g., it should be either
in the market complex o- in the center of any other social ac-
tivities within the comnunity. The location of the site should
permit easy access to the clinic; the clinic should be in an
attractive environment, offering at the same time sufficient
privacy. Conditions and size of the site should allow for future
extension to meet growing needs or additional requirements. It
should include also a garden and demonstration area. The minimum
size of the site would be 500m2, preferably 1,000m2 or 1,500m2.
b.   The Sub-Center will be located in a town of about 12,500 inhabi-
tants in the immediate area and approximately 40,000 people in
the extended area (selected location: Hato Mayor). The Sub-Center
will be closely community-oriented, as already mentioned for rural
clinics, although its fLnctions will be wider and will include
additional activities.
Preparation for Site Selection
2.        The   project architect  shall comment on the report of the findings
of the following investigations before the land is finally acquired:
- topographical survey, including information on shape and boundary
of site, its access to public traffic, road conditions, present
and planned vicinity, environmental conditions, character and
bearing capacity of soil, seismic conditions, slope.
- technical supply: cost for potable water, sewerage, electricity,
generator.
- climatic conditions:  temperature, humidity, prevailing wind, rain-
fall, sun angle.
- ownership of land, legal procedures, time, cost for land purchase.



Costs of Non-Co,,st-,ution Project Components
(us Dollars)
Item                                         Basis of Estimation                           1976          1977           1978          1979         Local        Foreign         Total
A. SESPAS
1. Special Equipment
a. (Regs. I & V) Radio-comsunication system                                                                        200,000                                        -          200,000       200,000
b. Three Nursing Schools
(i)  Clinical equipment                                                                                          45,000                                       -           45,000        45,000
(ii) Library and teaching material                                                                                8,000         3,000         3,000           -           14,000         14,000
c. Technical Nurse Courses "liceos"
(i)  clinical equipment                                                                                                         7,500         15,000          -           22,500         22,500
(ii) Library and teaching material                                                                  1,080         6,060         8,940         11,380          -           27,460         27,460
d. Six (AAEs
(i)  Clinical equipment                                                                            15,000        22,500                                       -           37,500        37,500
(ii) Library and teaching material                                                                               15,380         6,250          5,250          -           26,880         26,880
Sub-total (1)                                                                                 16,080       5 0            25,690        34,630           -          37T,30        373,340
2. Travel Allowances for supervisory staff and
RC staff in Regions I and V
a. Doctors and nurse supervisors, SESPAS                 Reg. I: 25RC x 52vks x $10 x 2
Reg. V: 25RC x 52wks x $10 x 2                             52,000        52,000        52,000        156,000          -          156,000
b. Professors. Universities                              Six professors x $200 x 12mos.                              14,400        14,400        14,400         43,200          -           43,200
c. Auxiliaries, Hardship Allowance                       Regs. I & V: 5OIC x $25 x 12mos.                            15,000        15,000        15,000         45,000          -           45,000
d. Medical & Nursing Students' Allowance                 Regs. T & V: 60est. x $60 x 12mos.                         43,200         43,200        43,200        129,600          -          129,600
Sub-total (2)                                                                                              124,600       124,600        124,600       373,800          -           373,800
3. Training-Local Fellowships. Courses and Semesters
Operating Costs
104-150-250 12-month fellowships. Grad. Nurses                                                                     111,530        155,250       246,750        513,530          -          513,530
170-300-410 9-month fellowships. Tech. Nurses                                                                       43,200         75,600       104,400       223,200           -          223,200
250-300-300 6-month fellowships. Auxiliaries                                                                        60,000         72,000        72,000        204,000          -          204,000
Ten Seminars on Comprehensive community health
care for health staff                                                                                          6,000          7,000         7,000        20,000           -           20,000
Six courses in three years on health and family
planning for community workers                                                                                 4,000          4,000         4,000        12,000           -           12,000
Six seminars on laboratory techniques and
maintenance                                                                                                    4,000          4,000         2,000        10,000           -           10,000
Sub-total (3)                                                                                              223,730       317,850       436,150        982,730           -
co4



Item                                        AIsis of Fs.timatio                           1976            1977          1978            1979        Loca'       ForeiAn        Total
4. Technical Assistance
a. Twelve man-months of senior and 12 man-months of
assoc. advisory services in Administration, In-   @ $35,000/my.
formation system and Evaluation                       @ $ZO,000/my.                                              27,500        27,500                         _           55,000        55,000
b. Twelve man-months of senior and 12 man-months of
assoc. advisory services in comprehensive health  @ $35,000/my.
care/family planning                                  @ $20,000/my.                                              27,500        27,500                         -           55,000         55,000
c. Ten man-months of consultant services in
modification of the medical and nursing curricula @ $35,000/my.                                                  29,200                                       -           29,200        .29,200
d. Six man-months for study on evaluation of
physical facilities                                   @ $35,000/my.                                               8,750         8,750                         _           17,500         17,500
e. Twelve man-months on equipment procurement            @ $35,000/my.                                              35,000                                       -           35,000         35,000
f. Six man-months for training courses in building
and equipment maintenance                             @ $35,000/my.                                               8,750         8,750                        8,750         8,750         17,500
g. Four-12 month  fellowships abroad/Annex 8,
(paras. 10-13)                                        4 @ $14,500/yr,                                            43,500        14,500                         _           58,000        58,000
h. Six man-months of study                                $40 per day x 180 days
tours in L.A.                                            + travel expenses                                                      7,550         3,750          -            11,300        11,300
Sub-total (4)                                                                                              180,200        94,550         3,750          8,750       269,750       278,500
5. Vehicles
Twelve ambulances (6 each for Regs. I and V)             @ $10,000 ea.                                              120,000                                      -           120,000       120,000
Eleven station wagons                                    @ $6,000 ea.                                                66,000                                      -            66,000        66,000
Twelve jeeps for clinic supervisors                                                                                 48,000                                       -           48,000         48,000
Four minibuses (to be assigned to Nursing Schools
and Liceos)                                           @ $7,000 ea.                                  7,000        21,000                                       -           28,000         28,000
Sub-total (5)                                                                                  7,000       255,000                                       -          262,000       262,000
6. Project Preparation                                                                                  113,000                                                   113,000          -          113,000
SUB-TOTAL  -  SESPAS                                                                         136,080     1,085,470       562,690       599,130    1,478,280         905,090    2,383,370
B. CONAPOFA                                                                                                                                          ______
1. Special EouiDment
a. Communications-audio equipment (training)                                                                         6,500                                       _            6,500          6,500
b. Office furniture and equipment (training coordinators)                                                            5,600                                       _            5,600          5,600
c. Audio-visual equipment                                                                                           15,480                                       -           15,480         15,480
Sub-total (1)                                                                                               27,580                                       -           27,580         27,580
2. Travel Allowances
a. Coordinators  (2-6-6)                                 $200 x 12                                                    4,800        14,400        14,400         33,600           -          33,600
b. Teaching Assistants  (2-6-6)                          $150 x 12                                                    3,600        10,800        10,800         25,200           _          25,200
Sub-total (2)                                                                                                8,400        25,200         25,200        58,800           _           58,800
3. Training-Operating Costs for Seminars and Courses
"Jornadas" for doctors and nurses                        1-day seminars 5-7-8 @ $800 each                            4,000         5,600          6,400        16,000           -           16,000
Population Education Seminars for teachers               3-4-4 regional @ $5,000 each                                15,000        20,000        20,000        55,000           -           55,000
Courses in family planning for doctors and nurses    5-5-6  -  $5,000 each                                          25,000         25,000        30,000        80,000           -           80,000
Courses in family planning for auxiliaries               4-5-5  -  $2,500 each                                       10,000        12,500        12,500        35,000           -           35,000
Sub-total (3)                                                                                               54,000        63,100        68,900        186,000          -          186,000
4. Technical Assistance
Ten man-months senior advisory services and 36 man- @ $35,000/my
mos. of research services for design of research   @ $25,000/my                                                   17,500         49,200        37,500        75-,000        29,200       104,200
program.                                                                                                                                                                                              x
5. Vehicles
Six  station wagons for training, Regional               @ $6,000 each                                               12,000        24,000                         -           36,000        36,000      r
SUB-TOTAL  -  CONAPOFA                                                                                     119,480       161,500        131,600       319,800        92,780        412,580



Item                                         Basis of Estimation                             1976          1977           1978          1979         Local       Foreign       Total
C ODO et al.
1. uperatin, i-. - for tonduct of Workshops
and Seminars
a.  ODC Personns.                                     150 5O-40 participants for 50 dave                           18,600          6,700         5.700       31,000           -           31,000
b.  Regional Personnel                                6U-50-50 participants for 50 days                            15,100         13,900        12,600       41,600           -           41,600
c.  Dirigentes de Organizaciones Comnunitarias    100-200-200 participants for 30 days                              4,000          8,000         8,000       20,000           -           20,000
d.  Dirigentes de Organizaciones por Region           1,000-2,000-2,000 participanta
for 300 days                                           9,700        19,600         19,600       48,900           -          48,900
e.  Formal and informal leaders                       50-100-100 participants for 50 days                           7,200         14,400        14,400       36,000           -           36,000
(t.'achers, majors)                            5(-100-100
f. Civilian, Military and Provincial
rfficials                                       900-400-400 participants for 5 davs                             700         1,500         1,500         3,700          -            3.700
g.  Two nal lional project coordinators               20 days/month Cda10/day each                                  4,800          4,800         4 800       14.400           -           14,400
Sub-T-'tal (ODC)                                                                                         60,100         68,900        66,600      195,600           -          195,600
D. SSID
Operating Costs                                                                                                        77,000        77,000        77,000      231,000           -          231,000
E. Exterpjl AudiLor (Technical Assistance)                                                                               16,700        16,600        16,700           -         50,000         50,000
F. Proect Implement.Zion Unit (PIU)                                                                                      148,670        96,360        39,000       284,030          -          284,030
B .-, ost                                                                                 136,08j    1 ,507,420        983,050       930,030   2,508,710   1,047,870         3,556,580
lZhysical Contingency-/                                                                                      2, 3[L)      59,150         4,970          3,460          -         69,890          69,890
Pr.- Contingency                                                                                             3,040       136,290       171,920       226,840       417,840      120,250        538,090
TOAL                                                                                     141,430    l,702,860    1,159,940    1 160,330   2,926,550   1,238.010             4,164,560
I/ 107, on Special Equipment and Vehicles only.



ANNEX 13
Financing Plan: Bv Type of Expenditure                                 Page 1
(US$OOOs)
IBRD                    GODR                      Total
For-                                      % Bank
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  ei.n   Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Financing
I. Civil Works
A. Site work and Construction         -        533      533   1,242    -    1,242   1,242         533   1,775      30%
B. Professional fees                  203      -        203      -      -       -        203      -        203    100%
C. Furniture and Equipment             20      311      331     221    -        221      241      311     552      60%
Sub-total  I                       223      844   1,067   1,463    -    1.463   1,686         844   2,530
II. Non-Construction Components
D. Special Equipment                  -        401      401      -      -       -        -        401      401    100%
E. Vehicles                           -        298      298      -      -       -        -        298      298    100%
F. Technical Assistance                84      299      383      -      -       -         84      299      383    100%
G. Operational costs for seminars,
training and CBD               1,622      -     1,622      406    -       406   2,028       -      2,028      80%
H. Project Preparation                113      -        113     -       -       -        113      -        113    100%
I. Project Implementation (PIU)       142      -        142      142    -       142      284     -         284     50%,
J. External Audit                     -         50       50     -       -       -                  50       50    100%
Sub-total II                     1,961   1,048   3,009       548    _        548   2,509   1,048   3,557
Base Cost  (I and II)                    2,184   1,892   4,076   2,011    -    2,011   4,195   1,892   6,087
III. Contingencies
Physical:  Construction                23       84      107      146    -       146      169       84     253
Non-Construction          -         70       70      -       -      -        -         70       70
Price:      Construction               34      195      229     356    -        356      390      195     585
Non-Construction          398      120      518       20    -        20      418      120      538
Sub-total III                      455      469      924     522    -        522      977     469   1,446
Grand Total                              2,639   2,361   5,000   2,533    -    2,533   5,172   2,361   7,533



ANNEX 13
FinancinR Plan: ByN Functional Catesorv                                   Page 2
(US$ OOOs)
IBRD                    GODR                    Total          % Bnnt
Local   Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign Total  Local  Foreian  Total FinancinL
I.  Administration
Travel Allowances                       125      -        125      31    -         31     156      -       156
Vehicles                                -         48       48     -       -       -       -         48      48
Technical Assistance 11                  -       108      108     -       -       -       -        108     108
Project Preparation                     113      -        113     -       -       -       113      -       113
External Auditor                         -        50       50     -       -       -       -         50       50
Project Implementation Unit             142      -        142     142    -       142      284      -       284
Sub-Total                            380      206      586     173    -       173      553      206     759    77%
II. Delivery of Services
1 Health Sub-Center                       69     292      361     450    -       450      519      292     811
26 Rural Clinics                        154      552      706   1,013    -    1,013   1,167        552   1,719
Special Equipment (SESPAS)              -        200      200     -       -       -       -        200     200
Vehicles                                -        186      186     -       -       -       -        1;      186
Technical Assistance 2/                  -        55       55     -       -       -       -         55       55
Operating Costs                         185      -        185      46    -        46      231      -       231
Sub-Total                            408   1,285   1,693   1,509    -    1,509   1,917   1,285   3,202    537%
III. Training
Special Equipment                        -       201      201     -       -       -       -        201     201
Travel Allowances                       221      -        221      56    -         56     277      -        277
Operating Costs                       1,091      -      1,091     273    -        273   1,364      -     1,364
Vehicles                                 -        64       64     -       -       -       -         64       64
Technical Assistance 3/                    9     107      116      -      -       -         9      107      116
Sub-Total                          1,321      372   1,693      329    -       329   l,e0        372   2,022    84%
IV. Research and Evaluation
Technical Assistance 41                   75      29      104      -      -       -        75       29      104
Sub-Total                             75       29     104      -       -      -         75       29     104   1oo%
Sub-Total                          2,184   1,892   4,376   2,011    -    2,011   4,195   1,892   6,087
Contingencies                                455     469      924      522    -       522      977     469   1,446
TOTAL                              2,639   2,361   5,000   2,533    -    2,533   5,172   2,361   7,533
1/  Includes Advisory Services in administration, evaluation of physical facilities, equipment procurement.
2/  Includes Advisory Services in comprehensive health care/family planning.
3/  Includes Advisory Services in curricula modification, training in building and equipment maintenance, fellowships
abroad, and study tours.
4/  Includes Advisory Services in design of research program (CONAPOFA) and local research services.



ANNEX 14
Estimated Disbursements
(in US$ 0OOs)
Per
Calendar Year                              Quarter            Cumulative
1977
March                                  169                 169
June                                    43                212
September                              453                665
December                               453              1,118
1978
March                                  483              1,601
June                                   483              2,084
September                              452              2,536
December                               452              2,988
1979
March                                  450              3,438
June                                   450              3,888
September                              278              4,166
December                               278              4,444
1980
March                                  278              4,722
June                                   278              5,000



Estimated Project Effects in Regions I and V, 1975-1981
(in thousands)
Population                Without Project                              With Project
Women    Women
Population    users of    Health and    Families   Population   15-49   users of
End            Rural and  Women    using SESPAS    family    Motivational        under       under      under    family
Year   Total  semi-rural  15-49        services     planning      workers       Program    Program    Program  Planning
(1)       (2)       (3)           (4)          (5)          (6)          (7)          (8)        (9)       (10)
1976     880      660        176          72.6         1.2
1977     900      670        180          74.6         5.4           .4          33.0         200         40         6
1978     930      680       i86           78.6         7.3          1.1          82.5         500         100       22
1979     950      685       190           83.6          9.3         1.3          99.8         600         120       30
1980     980      705       196          100.0        13.5          1.6         116.3         700        140        38
1981   1,000      710       200          115.0        18.0          1.8         133.5         800         16o       48
Explanation of selected columns:
(4) Estimated assuming that (a) in 1975, 20% of the urban population utilized SESPAS services (the national
average was 37% in 1973); (b) other services were given by nine clinics to 1,500 persons each (22,180 and
13,500); and (c) SESPAS services without the project would increase from 8% in 1975 and 1976 to 10, 12,
14 and 16% in 1977-80 respectively.
(5) Actual family planning users in 1973 in Region V were 0.03% of fertile women.
(6) It is assumed that of this number, 65 to 70% would be motivational and lay workers.
(7) Estimated assuming that each worker would visit and provide services to 75 families.
(10) Percent of users based on experience of acceptance in other countries, assuming comprehensive health
services and post-partum family planning are offered.
UI






IBR D-11188
j0~ ~~~~~~~~~ E.Oi,                                        OCA
AA 00Ch...JaL   o     AVEA                                                               0~@tl                          
~~~ a;  Ca LAMe ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ElUm  
h                          ETcArn  OaaAoa
dNIA            t         EAO
p  to Yoaaaa,aoa   ~ ~ L.Nn I                                                                4       MAY              B  dB atd
0OMINICAN   REPUB~~~~~vLICR.
LOCATION OF PR9POSED~~~~~~~ ANcXSINlELH AUTE
sECt~q  0*PULI  HALH         pMNICN  NSITTEOrAdANIC(N-T
Y,-                                              i~~~ tERAR   OPIASSCArSCRTYSAIA
*   SpECIALIZED HO PITALS  A   HOSPITAL~' CLS   A        hh EGIOALDIISO              ElUNDARIE                  II'~ C    PCC 
4   GENERAL HOSPITALS  A   HOSPITAL CLASS H5"  ~~~~d EPOVNILRNABEIDMICNBE
El                    6 E.SIBCBDR                         A    HSIA   CAS0'MINRASdA&Al                                                                                                  ir
SAN   II0N,          .4CLNIS                      U POY-NISPROEt.                               AEA.R
0   $HHTARS  ENTER                                    -a-NTERNTIONA    BOUDARIE                                   AL 050          A
I    ~ ~ ~ ~   ~~OPONV  SUB-CENTER  A                                                                          *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,eo   CAPT'  to' SEA~~~~~~E SEBC
0  JulzH
G             RPOE  RRLCLNCSlMaW70 tOPOO tM



