17--q
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1325 T-DO
WAN AGREEMENT
(Population and Family Health Project)
between
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 16, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1976, between DOMINICAN REPUB-
LIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Bank has determined that the Borrower is eligible
to receive this Loan as an intermediate term loan, as that term
is defined in Resolution No. 75-111 of the Executive Directors of
the Bank establishing an Interest Subsidy Fund for the Third Win-
dow (hereinafter called the Fund) and upon the terms and conditions
set forth in such Resolution;
(C) the Administrator of the Fund (hereinafter called the
Administrator), subject to the terms and conditions set forth in
the Resolution referred to in (B) above, is obligated to pay to
the Bank semi-annually from the resources of the Fund an amount
equal to four per cent (4%) per annum of the outstanding amounts
of principal on intermediate term loans, of which this Loan is
one; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and con-
ditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Unit" means the unit in the Secretariat of Pub-
lic Health and Social Assistance of the Borrower referred to in
Section 3.01 (b)(i) of this Agreement;
(b) "Project Director", "Deputy Project Director", "Project
Training Coordinator" and "Project Architect" mean the persons re-
ferred to in Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
(c) "Project Account" means the Borrower's account referred
to in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
(d) "Region I" means the Borrower's health region comprising
the provinces of Estrelleta, San Juan, Azua and Peravia;


﻿-3-
(e) "Region V" means the Borrower's health region comprising
the provinces of San Pedro de Macoris, La Romana, Altagracia and
El Seibo; and
(f) "SESPAS" means the Borrower's Secretariat of Public Health
and Social Assistance.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dol-
lars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrow  shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
four and ninety hundredths per cent (4.90%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time; provided, however, that if the Administrator shall at any
time determine that the resources of the Fund shall not be sufficient
to pay to the Bank at the next succeeding semi-annual interest
payment date of the Loan the amount scheduled to be paid by the
Administrator at that interest payment date as specified in
paragraph (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement, the Borrower shall,
upon notification by the Administrator of such determination and
the amount of the resulting shortfall, pay additional interest on
such principal amount of the Loan equal to such shortfall.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropri-
ate administrative, financial, technical, engineering, public
health and family planning practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources re-
quired for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall (i) maintain
a Project Unit in SESPAS with such functions as are specified in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. The staff of the Project Unit shall
be headed by a Project Director and shall include a Deputy Proj-
ect Director, a Project Training Coordinator, a Project Architect,
and other supporting staff, such Project Director, Deputy Director,
Training Coordinator and Architect to be acceptable to the Bank
and to be employed under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank; (ii) establish and maintain a separate Project Account in
SESPAS for the purpose of recording all receipts and payments of
money for or in connection with the Project; and (iii) make monthly
deposits in such Account of such amounts of money as shall be
necessary to provide it with an adequate level of funds to cover
estimated Project expenditures in the ensuing month, such deposits
to be in any case in amounts equivalent to at least $75,000.
(c) For the purposes of reviewing the progress of the Project
and planning its execution, the Borrower shall cause the Project


﻿01
Director, the Deputy Project Director, the directors of Regions I
and V and senior officials from the National Council for Family
Planning, Technical Secretariat of the Presidency and the universities
and agencies referred to in Sections 3.07 and 3.10 of this Agree-
ment, respectively, to meet at least every four months during the
execution of the Project, under the chairmanship of the Secretary
of Public Health and Social Assistance.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the prepara-
tion of procurement procedures and in the carrying out of Parts E
and F of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the impcxted goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
01


﻿-8-
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to re-
cord the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire not later than three months from the Effec-
tive Date, all such land, the location of which shall be satis-
factory to the Bank, and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities in-
cluded in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land
and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related
to the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary:
(i) to give the directors of Regions I and V authority and respon-
sibility for day-to-day management of health services and imple-
mentation of the Project in their respective Regions; (ii) to pro-
vide such directors with such budgetary resources as shall be


﻿-9-
required for the efficient day-to-day operation of their respective
Regions; and (iii) to cause the personnel working in such Regions
to be paid wages only upon performance of their respective assign-
ments.
(b) The Borrower shall consult with the directors of Regions
I and V, as the case may be, before making any personnel appoint-
ments, transfers and dismissals, and creating any new positions
in their respective Regions.
(c) The Borrower shall adequately staff the facilities in-
cluded in the Project with trained and qualified personnel.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall, within six months from
the Effective Date, enter into agreements, and maintain such agree-
ments in effect until at least the completion of the Project, with:
(i) at least three Dominican universities with medical schools,
whereby such universities will undertake inter alia: (A) to assign
their medical students for field practice in Regions I and V for
such periods of time as shall be necessary to ensure the continuity
of health services in such Regions; (B) to train SESPAS' field
personnel in community-based health services; and (C) to review
and, if necessary, to revise the curricula in their medical schools
to reflect the emphasis on preventive and community health services,
including maternal and child health care; and (ii) at least one
Dominican university with a nursing school, whereby such university
will undertake inter alia: (A) to assign its nursing students to
work in rural clinics for such periods of time as shall be neces-
sary to ensure the continuity of health services in rural areas;


﻿-10                                     0
and (B) to review and, if necessary, to revise the curricula in
its nursing school to introduce the concept of community-based
health care, emphasizing preventive services, including maternal
and child health care.
(b) The Borrower shall cause SESPAS' nursing school, within
six months from the Effective Date: (i) to assign its students
for field practice in Regions I and V for such periods of time as
shall be necessary to ensure the continuity of health services in
such Regions; and (ii) to review and, if necessary, to revise its
curricula to introduce the concept of community-based health care,
emphasizing preventive services, including maternal and child health
care.
Section 3.08. In granting fellowships under the Project, the
Borrower shall require each fellowship beneficiary to sign a con-
tract with SESPAS, whereby each such beneficiary will inter alia
undertake (i) upon r..; ,1etion of the fellowship, to work for SESPAS,
in the location set forth in such contract, for a period of at
least two years; and (ii) to repay the cost of the fellowship to
the Borrower in case such beneficiary shall not comply with the
obligation in the preceding paragraph (i) of this Section.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, every year during a period
of five years str',ting on January 1, 1977, create within SESPAS
such positions .,r;ughout the country, mainly in rural areas, for
graduate nurses and technical nurses as shall be necessary to ensure
employment for the graduates of the fellowship program included in
the Project.


﻿- 11 -
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than three
months from the Effective Date, cause the Office of Community De-
velopment, the State Sugar Council, the Dominican Agrarian Insti-
tute and the Department of Agricultural Extension of the Secretar-
iat of Agriculture to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
Part E (i), (ii) and (v) of the Project and to assign their staff
to work as health promoters in Regions I and V together with the
personnel included in Part D (i) of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall, not later than three months from
the Effective Date, enter into an agreement, and maintain such
agreement in effect until at least the completion of the Project,
with the Social Service of Dominican Churches, whereby such Ser-
vice will undertake to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
Part D (iii) of the Project.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall continue to carry out an
evaluation of its family planning program under terms of reference
which shall include those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 3.12. The Borrower undertakes to review and, if nec-
essary, to revise the salary scale for nursing personnel in the
public health services from time to time, in order to ensure that
such salary scale provides sufficient incentive for (i) people to
enter and remain in the nursing profession, and (ii) nursing per-
sonnel to serve in rural areas.


﻿-12-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans
to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal
circumstances, specific security from the member concerned but to
ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over its
loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member.
To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as
hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt, which will
or might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor of
such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and rat-
ably secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation
of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets
of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the Bor-
rower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the princi-
pal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equiva-
lent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿- 13 -
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
aclions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or op-
erating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Proj-
ect or any part thereof, including the Project Unit.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall (i) cause the Project Account
and financial statements of SESPAS related to the Project to be
audited at least annually, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than three months after the end of each fiscal
year, (A) certified copies of such financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said audi-
tors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have rea-
sonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other


﻿- 14-
information concerning the Project Account and financial statements
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the buildings, fur-
niture and equipment of the facilities included in the Project to
be adequately maintained and shall cause all necessary renewals
and repairs thereof to be made in accordance with appropriate tech-
nical and engineering practices.
(b) The Borrower undertakes to pay, during at least fifteen
years from the date of this Agreement and as required for the
efficient operation of its health services, all salary costs of
the personnel included in Part D (i) and (ii) of the Project.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, with the assistance of quali-
fied management consultants, take all steps necessary (i) to re-
organize and strengthen SESPAS at the central level with a view to
achieving an effective health delivery system and to replicating
the experiences of Regions I and V in the whole country; and (ii)
to put such reorganization and strengthening into effect not later
than one year after the Effective Date.


﻿-15-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the Borrower has established the Project Account and deposited
therein an amount equivalent to not less than $300,000.
Section 5.02. The date December 21, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Public Health and Social Assis-
tance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Bor-
rower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Estado de Salud Pfblica
y Asistencia Social
Ave. San Crist6bal Esquina Tiradentes
Santo Domingo, D.N.,
Dominican Republic
Cable address:
Secretaria de Salud Pfblica
y Assistencia Social
Santo Domingo, D.N.
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 1T -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ Horacio Vicioso
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Suitbertus M.L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dol)ar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  550,000          30%
(2) Furniture and                350,000          60%
Equipment for
Part A
(3) Equipment and                700,000          100% of foreign
Vehicles for                                 expenditures
Parts B and C
(4) Technical assis-             750,000          100%
tance (including
external auditor
for the Project
Unit), research,
professional fees
and Project prep-
aration
(5) Training, seminars,        1,650,000          80%
supervision and
community programs
(6) Project adminis-             150,000          50%
tration
(7) Unallocated                  850,000
TOTAL      5,000,000


﻿-19-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the ter-
ritory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall
be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importa-
tion, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if
the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or in-
creases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or de-
crease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $83,000 may be made in respect of
Category (4) on account of payments made for such expenditures
before that date but after March 1, 1976.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the


﻿- 20--
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Cate-
gory, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, pro-
ceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other ex-
penditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of t, Loan as, in the Bank's rea-
sonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Loan.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's health and family plan-
ning program to reduce the rate of population growth and improve
the health and welfare of its population, particularly of mothers
and children living in rural and semi-rural areas.
The Project includes:
Part A:   Construction, equipping and furnishing of the following
facilities:
(i) about 11 rural health clinics in Region I; and
(ii) one health sub-center and about 15 rural health
clinics in Region V.
Part B:   Provision and utilization of (i) a radio communication
system each in Regions I and V to connect rural health
clinics and sub-centers with hospitals and ambulance
services; (ii) audio-visual equipment and teaching mate-
rials for the programs of the National Council for Family
Planning in each of the six health regions; (iii) equip-
ment, teaching materials and books for national nursing
schools, nursing auxiliary training centers and courses
for technical nurses in national secondary schools.


﻿- 22                                    0
Part C:   Prov:sion and utilization of (i) 4 mini-buses for nursing
schools and national secondary schools; (ii) about 35
vehicles for Regions I and V; and (iii) about 6 vehicles
for the National Council for Family Planning.
Part D:
(i) Utilization of the services of medical and nursing
supervisory staff, auxiliary nurses and medical and
nursing students in rural health clinics and sub-
centers located in Regions I and V;
(ii) utilization of the services of the National Council
for Family Planning's six regional training coor-
dinators and their staff; and
(iii) community based distribution and family planning
education programs.
Part E:   Training programs and workshops as follows:
(i) fifty days of courses in family planning and mater-
nal and child care for about 400 community workers
of the agencies referred to in Section 3.10 of
this Agreement throughout the country;
(ii) group meetings on family planning conducted by
the community workers referred to in Part E (i)
hereof to reach about 130,000 persons throughout
the country in a period of three years;


﻿- 23 -
(iii) one national and nine regional seminars of one week
duration each on family planning and population
education for about 300 teachers of teaching schools
throughout the country;
(iv) ten seminars of one week duration each for about
70 administrators and health personnel on comprehen-
sive community health and family planning services
in Regions I and V;
(v) six courses of two weeks duration each for about
850 para-professional workers on community health
work in Regions I and V;
(vi) five seminars of five days duration each for about
125 health workers in Regions I and V on laboratory
techniques and maintenance of laboratory equipment;
(vii) about 850 fellowships of six months duration for
basic training of auxiliary nurses in five national
nursing auxiliary training centers;
(viii) about 44o two-year fellowships for basic training
of technical nurses in secondary schools; and
(ix) about 168 fellowships of three-year duration for
basic training of graduate nurses in national nurs-
ing schools.


﻿Part F:   A technical assistance program as follows:
(i) about twelve man-months of senior and twelve man-
months of associate consulting services to the di-
rectors of Regions I and V in administration of
health services, statistical information and pro-
gram evaluation system;
(ii) about twelve man-months of senior and twelve man-
months of associate constring services in manage-
ment and operation of re-oriented comprehensive
community healt' care and family planning services;
(iii) about ten man-months of senior consulting services
and thirty-six man-months of research services in
the preparation and implementation of family plan-
ning research programs;
(iv) about ten man-months of consulting services for
the revision of (1) curricula in medical schools
to include comprehensive community health care and
family planning and (2) programs of the national
nursing schools in order to make them responsive
to the country's needs;
(v) about twenty-four man-months of consulting services
for evaluation of the cost, effectiveness and utili-
zation of health facilities, establishing procedures
for the procurement of equipment and furniture for
Part A of the Project, and organizing a training


﻿- 25 -
program in maintenance of health facilities and
equipment; and
(vi) four 12 man-months fellowships abroad and 6 man-
months of study tours for the staff of SESPAS
and the National Council for Family Planning.


﻿- 26-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)
January 15, 1983                                     80,000
July 15, 1983                                        85,000
January 15, 1984                                     90,000
July 15, 1984                                        90,000
January 15, 1985                                     95,000
July 15, 1985                                        95,000
January 15, 1986                                     95,000
July 15, 1986                                       100,000
January 15, 1987                                    100,000
July 15, 1987                                       105,000
January 15, 1988                                    110,000
July 15, 1988                                       110,000
January 15, 1989                                    110,000
July 15, 1989                                       115,000
January 15, 1990                                    120,000
July 15, 1990                                       120,000
January 15, 1991                                    125,000
July 15, 1991                                        130,000
January 15, 1992                                    130,000
July 15, 1992                                       130,000
January 15, 1993                                     140,000
July 15, 1993                                       140,000
January 15, 1994                                     145,000
July 15, 1994                                       145,000
January 15, 1995                                     155,000
Thly 15, 1995                                       155,000
January 15, 1996                                     155,000
July 15, 1996                                        165,000
January 15, 1997                                     165,000
July 15, 1997                                        170,000
January 15, 1998                                     175,000
July 15, 1998                                        180,000


﻿-27-
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)
January 15, 1999                                      185,000
July 15, 1999                                         190,000
January 15, 2000                                      190,000
July 15, 2000                                         200,000
January 15, 2001                                      210,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 28                                    0
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                           1.05%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                           2.10%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                           3.90%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                     5.70%
More than sixteen years but
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity                     7.50%
More than twenty-one years but
not more than twenty-three
years before maturity                     8.20%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                           8.90%


﻿-29-
SCHEDULE 14
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Contracts shall be let under procedures consistent with those
set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
2.   Contractors for civil works shall be prequalified. Invitations
for prequalification shall be advertised in newspapers widely cir-
culated in the Dominican Republic and copies of such advertisement
shall be transmitted to local representatives of Bank member coun-
tries and Switzerland, which are potential suppliers of such ser-
vices. Contractors which are found to be qualified shall be per-
mitted to bid.
3.   To the extent practicable, orders for civil works, furniture
and equipment shall be grouped so as to encourage international
competitive bidding.
4.   Invitations to bid for (i) civil works contracts costing less
than the equivalent of $200,000 and in the aggregate not more than
the equivalent of $400,000 and (ii) contracts for the supply of
goods costing less than the equivalent of $80,000 and in the ag-
gregate not more than $200,000, may be locally advertised only.
Foreign contractors and suppliers will not be precluded from bid-
ding.


﻿300
- 30 -
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Dominican Republic may be granted
a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the fol-
lowing provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Dominican Republic if the bidder shall have estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the


﻿-31-
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods in-
cludes a value added in the Dominican Republic equal
to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Dominican Republic.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales'or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if


﻿-32-
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under
paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure
to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said pro-
cedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequali-
fied bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequal-
ification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its
comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall
make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the
said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts.
With respect to civil works contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, and to contracts for the supply of
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $80,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's con-
currence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 33 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank
of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and the reasons for the intended award and shall furnish to the Bank,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalu-
ation and comparison of the bids received, together with the recom-
mendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the in-
tended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Sched-
ule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
i1)


﻿- 34-
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿-35 -
SCHEDULE 5
Project Unit
1.   The Project Unit will be responsible for the overall manage-
ment and coordination of activities in the execution of the Proj-
ect. It will be administratively under SESPAS and will have such
powers and responsibilities as may be necessary for, or incidental
to, the proper execution and supervision of the Project.
2.   The Project Director will be responsible for overall manage-
ment of Project operations and for preparing and furnishing quar-
terly reports on progress of the Project, and will report to the
Secretary of Health and Social Assistance directly.
3.   The Deputy Project Director, who will replace the Project
Director in his absence, will assist such Director in the manage-
ment, planning, implementation and supervision of the Project.
4.   The Project Training Coordinator will direct, coordinate and
help organize the training activities included in the Project at
the national level.
5.   The Project Architect will direct the construction activities
included in the Project and will be responsible for advising the
Project Director in the construction aspects of the Project.
6.   The Project Unit will also have the following functions:
01


﻿- 36                                         0
(a) Procurement activities carried out by officers familiar
with hospital and training equipment and local and international
procurement procedures; and
(b) administration and accounting activities for budgeting,
collection, disbursement and other financial matters.


﻿-37-
SCHEDULE 6
Evaluation of the Borrower's
Family Planning Program
The Borrower will continue to carry out the evaluation of its
family planning program through the statistical system of the Na-
tional Council for Family Planning and will complement the infor-
mation from such system with surveys to achieve the evaluation of:
(a) program efforts and inputs, such as personnel-hours,
costs and contraceptives distributed;
(b) intermediate results, such as number of acceptors, con-
tinuing users, active clients and couple years of protection;
(c) program efficiency, such as relation of intermediate re-
sults to various physical or financial inputs; and
(d) effect on fertility as measured by age - specific fer-
tility rates.


