                                       Document of
                                   The World Bank

                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                      Report No: 75144-HN




                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                          ON A

                            PROPOSED RESTRUCTURING

                                         OF THE

       NUTRITION AND SOCIAL PROTECTION ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                         TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS


                                     March 18, 2013




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.




                                                                                            1
                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




AIN-C     Atención Integral a la Niñez Comunitaria (Comprehensive Early
          Childhood Care)
CADERH    Centro Asesor para el Desarrollo de los Recursos Humanos (Advisory
          Services to Human Resources Development)
CCT       Conditional Cash Transfer
FEP       First Employment Program
INFOP     Instituto Nacional de Formación Profesional (National Institute for
          Professional Training)
PDO       Project Development Objective
SOLSS     Ministry of Labor and Social Security




         Regional Vice President:       Hasan A. Tuluy
               Country Director:        Carlos Felipe Jaramillo
                 Sector Director:       Keith Hansen
                Sector Manager:         Mansoora Rashid
              Task Team Leader:         Lucy Bassett



                                    2
                                        HONDURAS
                         NUTRITION AND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT

                                                         CONTENTS

A. SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 4
B. PROJECT STATUS .............................................................................................................. 4
C. PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 5
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING ................................................. 7




                                                                   3
                                  HONDURAS
                   NUTRITION AND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
                              RESTRUCTING PAPER



A. SUMMARY

1.      This Restructuring Paper proposes a Level II restructuring of the Honduras
Nutrition and Social Protection Project Additional Financing to: (i) modify the service
provider and training scheme for the First Employment Program (FEP); (ii) revise one
intermediate outcome indicator target to reflect those changes; and (iii) change one
disbursement category to facilitate disbursement under Component 1.

B. PROJECT STATUS

2.      An Additional Financing (P126158, Cr. 4964-HN) of US$3.6 million to the
Nutrition and Social Protection Project (P082242, Cr. 4097-HN) was approved on June
16, 2011 and became effective in January 2012. The Closing Date is June 30, 2013. The
PDOs are to improve Honduras’ social safety net for children and youth by: (i)
strengthening the Recipient’s capacity to administer social assistance programs; (ii)
improving nutritional and health status of young children by expanding the AIN-C1
community-based nutrition program; and (iii) increasing employability of at-risk youth
by piloting the FEP. The Project finances three components: (1) Institutional
Strengthening of the Recipient’s Social Protection Framework for Children and Youth
(US$1 million); (2) Support for the Recipient’s AIN-C Program (US$11.5 million); and
(3) Implementation of Recipient’s First Employment Program for disadvantaged youth
(US$7.5 million). The Additional Financing provides additional resources for Component
1 (US$1 million) and Component 3 (US$2.6 million).

3.      To date, the original Project has disbursed US$19,562,000 (around 95 percent) of
the total of US$20 million. Under Component 1, the Social Protection Policy has been
formally approved by the Social Cabinet and a Social Protection Technical Committee
has been formed and charged with elaborating an implementation strategy. Under
Component 2, the community-based nutrition program, AIN-C, has reached 1,036
communities (slightly surpassing its target) and the impact evaluation has shown positive
impacts on intermediate and final nutrition outcomes. Component 3 has covered 4,883
beneficiaries of the FEP.

4.      The Additional Financing has disbursed approximately US$860,000 (about 25
percent) of the total of US$3.6 million, exclusively under Component 1 which is
progressing satisfactorily. The National Statistical Agency completed the survey work to
identify additional beneficiaries for the country's conditional cash transfer (CCT)
program, Bono 10 Mil, and the target of 75,000 additional eligible beneficiaries was
surpassed, reaching a total of 91,898 beneficiaries. However, no disbursements have been

1
 AIN-C (Atención Integral a la Niñez Comunitaria) is a community-based nutrition program that seeks to
improve healthy child growth and development.
                                                   4
made yet under Component 3, pending a request by the Ministry of Labor and Social
Security (SOLSS) in May 2012 to change the implementing agency for the First
Employment Program.

C. PROPOSED CHANGES

5.      The proposed change reflects a request from SOLSS, the implementing agency
for the Project, to change the implementing arrangements for Component 3.2 (carrying
out of employment training). The proposed change would affect the training scheme
arrangements and one associated indicator for Component 3, as well as disbursement
arrangements for Component 1.

Results/indicators

6.      The target of one intermediate outcome indicator will be changed to reflect the
change in activities under Component 3 (see Annex 1). The indicator “number of
businesses that offer internships? will be maintained at the 2011 target of 473. This
change is needed because the fourth round of the FEP, unlike the previous three rounds,
will not include a mandatory internship (see below).

Components

7.      As a result of limited time left to implement activities, the fourth round of FEP
will now provide two and a half months of technical and life skills training and an
internship will not be mandatory. In the previous three rounds, the FEP provided four
months of training and two months of internship to beneficiaries. Despite the reduction in
the duration of training, the value to the beneficiaries is not expected to be significantly
affected: the life skills module will be expanded by 50 percent, entrepreneurship training
will be added, technical courses will be offered in a more intensive fashion, and the youth
who complete the full training package will be able to be accredited by INFOP. In place
of the mandatory internship, participating youth will receive support and advice about job
search and job placement through the SOLSS during and after training (and an internship
will be optional). Graduates will also be registered in the database of the National
Employment Service of the SOLSS. This training approach is satisfactory to the Bank
based on evidence from other country experiences (e.g., Dominican Republic), which
have shown that life skills training is one of the most important elements of effective
youth training. The reduction in the length of the training program will not impact the
PDO. The Project Closing Date will remain the same and activities are expected to be
completed by June 30, 2013.

Institutional Arrangements

8.       The SOLSS requested the change in implementing agency for Component 3.2 for
two main reasons. The first is that the existing provider, the Advisory Services to Human
Resources Development agency (CADERH), increased its unit cost per trainee
significantly for the fourth round of training. The second reason is that giving the
responsibility for implementing Component 3.2 to the National Institute for Professional
Training (Instituto Nacional de Formación Profesional, INFOP) represents an opportunity for
                                             5
institutional learning about employment programs targeting disadvantaged urban youth
and may lead to providing future employment services to this population.

9.      The Bank and Government discussed the proposed change over a period of
several months, including the tradeoffs and risks given the closing date of June 30, 2013.
The decision was made to proceed with a restructuring, and additional time was required
to assess INFOP’s technical and implementation capacity, given the agency had not
previously managed a Bank financed project.

10.    A subsidiary agreement has been prepared and will be signed between the SOLSS
and INFOP. INFOP will be paid to implement Component 3.2 of the Project on a “cost
recovery? basis for eligible expenditures incurred no later than the closing date. The
expenditures will include payment for instructors, educational materials, and
transportation for instructors and supervisors as well as INFOP's related operating costs.
INFOP will use its own instructors and subcontract external certified instructors as
needed, following Bank procurement rules. The scope of the audit for Credit 4964 will be
expanded to include a review of INFOP’s procurement and financial management for the
execution of the FEP training.

Financing

11.      Disbursement arrangements. The proposed changes to disbursement arrangements
include the modification of the disbursement category for Component 1. Currently, the
disbursement category for Component 1 only covers sub-component 4 (data collection to
identify CCT beneficiaries and development of an urban targeting methodology). It is
proposed that this disbursement category, which includes goods, consultants’ services,
non-consultant services, and operating costs, be modified to include not only activities
under sub-component 4, but also activities under sub-components 1, 2 and 3 to strengthen
social protection policies, strategy, and programs. This is necessary because one of the
activities under sub-component 4 of the Project, the development of an urban targeting
methodology, was completed with government funds and the Secretary of the Presidency
has requested that Component 1 finance additional activities to strengthen the social
protection framework, which fall under sub-components 1, 2, and 3. The proposed
activities will support studies on key social protection topics to build knowledge and
capacity in government to make informed decisions about social protection policy and
programs. These studies will address citizen participation, services for indigenous
populations, efficiency of public expenditures in social protection, among others. Other
activities include consultancies to define a strategy for sustainability of social protection,
with attention to vulnerable groups, during the upcoming government transition and the
organization of a National Forum on Social Protection. Significant preparation has been
done for these activities and it is expected that all will be completed by the closing date
of June 30, 2013.

12.    The disbursement letter will be amended to increase the ceiling for the Designated
Account for Component 3 (DA-B) from $600,000 to $900,000 to facilitate the cash flow
needs for this component in light of the impending closing date.
 .

                                              6
                                                                   ANNEX 1: Results Framework and Monitoring

Project Development Objective (PDO): The project development objective is to improve Honduras’ social safety net for children and youth by: (i) strengthening the Recipient’s
capacity to administer social assistance programs; (ii) improving nutritional and health status of young children by expanding the AIN-C program, and (iii) increasing employability
of at-risk youth by piloting a First Employment program.
                                                           D=Dropped                                                                                                      Responsibility
                                                                                                       Cumulative Target Values**




                                                    Core
                                                           C=Continue   Unit of                                                                            Data Source/
       PDO Level Results Indicators*                       N= New
                                                                                   Baseline                                                    Frequency                    for Data
                                                                        Measure                 2011        2012              2013                         Methodology
                                                           R=Revised                                                                                                       Collection
Indicator One: Institutional structure for policy                                                                      SDS created and has
formulation, planning, implementation and                                                                             mandate to coordinate,
                                                               C         N/A                                                                     Once                     SOP and SDS
evaluation is created by Governmental decree                                                                          design, implement and
                                                                                                                      evaluate social policy
Indicator Two: Reduction in chronic
                                                                                                                                                End of        Impact
malnutrition for children under 2 years of age                 C          %          32                                        26                                             SOH
                                                                                                                                                project     evaluation
participating in AIN-C
Indicator Three: Percentage of program
                                                                                                                                                End of        Impact
graduates in paid employment of self-                          C          %           0          30          40                40                                            SOLSS
                                                                                                                                                project     evaluation
employment 6 months after program graduation
Project beneficiaries                                                                                                                           End of       Program
                                                    x          C        Number        0        4,883                          7,100                                          SOLSS
                                                                                                                                                project      registry
                                                                                  INTERMEDIATE RESULTS
Component One
Intermediate Result indicator One: New                                                        Targeting   Targeting
targeting mechanism for urban area validated                                                  algorithm   methodol
                                                               C          N/A         0       developed      ogy                                 Once                      SOP and SSD
                                                                                                 and       manual
                                                                                               piloted    completed
Component Three
Intermediate Result indicator One: Number of
youth participating in First Employment                        C        Number        0        4,883                          7,100             Annual     MIS of SOLSS      SOLSS
Program
Intermediate Result indicator Two: Number of
youth who use the SOLSS Information Service                    C        Number        0         700                           5,000             Annual     MIS of SOLSS      SOLSS
in the project areas
Intermediate Result indicator Three: Number of
                                                               R        Number       473                                       473              Annual     MIS of SOLSS      SOLSS
businesses that offer internships




                                                                                                                                                                             7
Intermediate Result indicator Four: Percentage
of youth successfully completing all phases of                C         Number                       75                            80                 Annual   MIS of SOLSS   SOLSS
FEP
Intermediate Result indicator Five: Percentage
of Indigenous and Afro-Honduran beneficiaries,                C            %            0            9                             15                 Annual   MIS of SOLSS   SOLSS
from the total of beneficiaries
Intermediate Result indicator Six: Percentage of
Indigenous and Afro-Honduran youth finishing                  C            %            0            51                            85                 Annual   MIS of SOLSS   SOLSS
the program, from the total registered



                                              *Please indicate whether the indicator is a Core Sector Indicator (see further http://coreindicators)
                                                **Target values should be entered for the years data will be available, not necessarily annually




                                                                                               8
