11numet nf-                  A L T-     Ts I I
The World Bank                rILf           LUPT 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
ZAMBIA: PROGRAM LOAN (LOAN 911-ZA)
March Qi 1Q77
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
the!r offii.lI duitie- Its eontents m-y not otherwie he diselosed without World Rank authorization.



CCnD (%VE1f'f AT I ICE fkJI V
a    OFFW '.JICIAi1.-i WkL J OJL N LY a
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
"7A  DT A  flnflrDAn,   ^CA1I /fA1l Al  n
ZIA,LD.L:M  rOG.R'I1r1 LOuN (LOAI' 911-ZA)
TADLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface
Data Sheet
Highlights
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
Background                                                          -2
Fluctuations in Copper Prices and the Timing of the Loan         2 - 3
Disbursement and Supervision                                      3  4
Procedures for Withdrawal of Counterpart Funds                   4
Policy Understandings                                            4    5
Conclusions                                                      5
Chart I
Attachment: Completion Report
Introduction                                                    A.1
Economic Situation Preceding the Program Loan                   A.1 - A.3
Objectives                                                      A.3   A.4
Implementation and Counterpart Funds                            A.4   A.6
Disbursement Procedures                                         A.7   A.8
Conclusions                                                     A.8   A.10
This document hua a ratrictd disuibution and may be used by recipienu only in the perfowrmnco
%d ifft. AA&ai iint. &tinm i fwnt nVharwimm b_ dlad without WM Dak authorIntio



PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
ZAMBIA:   PROGRAM LOAN (LOAN 911-ZA)
PREFACE
This ReDort covers an audit of experience under
Program Loan (Loan 911-ZA) to Zambia.   Loan 911-ZA, for
US$30 million, was approved on June 14; 1973. was sianed on
June 18, 1973 and became effective on June 29, 1973. The
final disbursement was made in June 1974- bringing total
disbursement under to Loan to US$12.5 million. In agreement
with the ^.ovrnment of Znmhbia  tha hbalnre amount of US$17.5
million was cancelled. This audit is based on review of
relatdrl tinoeiimnt-s , n and dli,iscusicion withI the Bankr sa1-ff and
complements the Completion Report prepared by the Eastern
Afr;rl PRegional nffice.  Comments on the Report were
received from the Borrower.



PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
ZAMBIA: PROGRAM LOAN (LOAN 911-ZA)
DATA SHEET
Amounts (in US$ mln)
Aso 12/341/76
Original      Disbursed    Cancelled      Repaid     Outstanding
Loan 911-ZA        30.00         12.50        17.50           -          12.50
Project Data
Original Plan           Actual or Est. Actual
Conception in Bank                                            Dec. 1972
Board Approval                                                 6/14/73
Loan Agreement                                                 6/18/73
Effectiveness                                                  6/29/73
Loan Closing                       6/30/74                    June 1974
Mission Data
Month,      No. of   No. of               Date of
Year      Weeks    Persons   Manweeks    Report
Identification                   11/72        1                           12/72
Preparation                       1/73        3
Preappraisal/Negotiations         5/73        1
Supervision I                    11/73        3        2         6        12/73
In addition, there were two other missions, one (one man, two weeks) in
August 1973 to discuss disbursement procedures, and one (two men, one week)
to discuss arrangements for cancellation.
Follow-on-Project
Loan 1322-ZA of US$30.00 million, signed September 17, 1976 for Second Program
Loan Proiect.



PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
ZAMBIA:  PROGRAM LOAN (LOAN 911-ZA)
HIGHLIGHTS
The audit focuses on the problem of providing a program loan to a
country heavily dependent upon a single commodity for its foreign exchange
earnings and resources for development expenditure. The loan was intended to
provide resources to assist Zambia to carry out a reduced development program
at a time when low copper prices had imposed a severe financial constraint on
the economy.
At the time the loan was made the Government embarked upon a number
of policy measures including a wage freeze and increases in prices of agri-
cultural products.
More than half the Loan was cancelled because rising copper prices
reduced the country's need for such support.
Other points of interest are:
- problems in disbursement of the Loan (para. 13 of PPAM
and paras. 8, 11-13 of PCR); and
- role of counterpart funds (naras. 14-15 of PPAM and
para. 9 of PCR).



PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
ZAMBIA: PROGRAM LOAN (LOAN 911-ZA)
1.        This memorandum reports on an audit of performance under Bank Loan
911-ZA for US$30.0 million which was signed in June 1973; an amount of US$12.5
million was disbursed by June 1974, and, in agreement with the Government of
Zambia. the balance amount of US$17.5 million was cancelled in June 1974.
The audit is based on information contained in the Project Completion Report
(PCR) prepared by Bank staff in the East Africa Regional Denartment (Attach-
ment A), supplemented by information contained in Bank files and reports, and
discussions with Bank staff concerned.
9.        Since program loans are mpnat fn protect as far as nrarticabhlp tfli
development process in a country facing serious resource and, in particular,
balance of payments constraints, their purpose and objectives have to be
reviewed in the light of the country's economic structure and development
objectiveS, -nA the   onomicnl 4polcies t- pursues to support these oDjectives.
In addition, in the case of the particular loan to Zambia, procedural prob-
l-ems arose relating- tA dbursement of the loan anA wiuthdrawal of counterpart
funds.
Background
3.        Zambia is a landlocked country which became independent in 1964,
and LdI Ullt: of | the hig h g  *est peL cata L iLcUesb 1i11 Llth rtgoll.  lilth economy
is dominated by the copper industry. On an average, copper contributes 25-30%
of the country's G.D.P., 90-95% of its exports and (in a good year up to)
50% of government revenues.   Zambia provides about 16% of the world's copper
exports.  In spite of its substantial share in the world copper trade, Zambia
has little or no control over international copper prices which are determined
by transactions on the London Metal Exchange (LME).    Between 1970 and 1975,
copper prices slumped and peaked twice and had a significant impact on the
course of the Zambian economy.
4.        Since production and export of copper is in the modern sector, its
dominant role in the economy has been a major influence in the characteristic
economic development of Zambia. This is visible in a marked tendency for
concentration of development (and population) in the copper-belt and along
the railroad line linking the copper-belt in the north and west with major
urban centers and export points.
5.        Substantial disparities in income exist between the "modern" sector
and the "traditional" sector (largely divided between urban and rural).
Agriculture is estimated to contribute less than 12% to G.D.P. There is a
division between commercial and traditional agriculture, and large disparities
exist in value added per worker between the two sectors. About 50% of the
labor force is estimated to be in the subsistence sector, but because of
emigration the proportion is declining. There has been a substantial growth
of urban centers and a net migration from the countryside to the towns - about
35/O of Zambia's population is in 10 towns with a poDulation exceeding 50,000.



-2-
6.        The major economic policy issues confronting Zambia are, first, how
to use resources from copper to diversify the economy and reduce dependence
upon one commodity; the sharp fluctuations in copper prices in recent years
have added urgency to this problem.    The second issue is how to narrow the
gap between urban and rural incomes by improving output in the traditional
agricultural sector.   OLthLer development obJectLives include ra ls£a ng taa hLe level 
of general education; developing a wide range of technical, administrative
and managerial skills in order to 'lessen Uepenuence on expatriates; an
raising the general level of social welfare. Zambia has made important
strides ir, education (althouigh skilledu manpower remailns an mportant con-
straint), in developing power and transportation infrastructure and limited
progress in diversifying its economy, particularly through modern manufactur-
ing; to date, its success in reducing the rural-urban income gap has been
smail.
7.        Although the price of copper is subject to wide fluctuations, in
the years preceding 1970, the fluctuations were around an upward trend. Up
to 1970 the Zambian economy did not face any serious financial constraints,
and in early 1970, the country had a comfortable foreign exchange reserve
position. Since 1970, however, copper prices have shown sharp fluctuations
and have become a major disruptive influence on the Zambian economy. Since
over 90% of Zambia's exports are copper, the impact on the balance of pay-
ments is almost directly proportionate to the fluctuations in copper prices.
The budgetary consequences (through revenues) of the fluctuations were also
substantial. It was in this context that the Bank began to consider a pro-
gram loan to Zambia. The PCR describes in detail the steps in the negotia-
tion and approval of the loan, the policy understandings reached and the
procedures laid down.
Fluctuations in Copper Prices and the Timing of the Loan
8.        Prices of copper have shown sharn fluctuations in the past.     During
the last 10 years, copper price movements can be divided into four phases:
(i) 1966 to mid-1970: a generally upward movement, gradually
increasing copper nrices from US 40 cents a lu. to 90
cents a lb.;
(ii) Mid-1970 to 1972: copper prices declined steadily, moving
to around 47 cents a lb. by December 1970, and fluctuating
around that level till December 1972;
(iii)  1973 to mid-1974:   copper prices began to rise, accelerat-
ing particularly after mid-1973, reaching 101 cents a lb.
by December 1973 and a peak of 138 cents in April 1974;
an.il
(iv)r Mid-1974 to 1976:   copper prices came down as rapidly during this
period as they had risen in the previous year and a half,
falling a 58 cents a lb. by December 1974 and fluctuated around
that level till 1976-end (except for April-September 1976 when
they were around 70 cents a lb.).



-3-
9.        The fail in copper prices, starting i9iO, had a sharp adverse impact
on Zambia's foreign exchange and budgetary position. Towards the end of 1972
it was felt that the low and failing copper prices might seriously affect
Zambia's development efforts. These low prices had caused a sustained fall
in Zambia's foreign exchange reserves from about US$515 million equivalent
at the end of 1970 to about $165 million at the end of 1972. It was early in
1973 that an appraisal mission visited Zambia to examine the Government's
investment program which had been scaled down in line with the diminished
resources available. After further detailed discussions in April/May, which
followed an agreement for a standby credit between Zambia and the IMF, the
loan was approved in mid-June. At that time the copper price had already
risen to 79 cents a lb. At the time the loan was made it was expected that
copper prices would remain fairly low and that Zambia would still need addi-
tional resources to carry out its investment program. However, the world
economic situation changed suddenly after mid-1973, with oil prices trebling
towards the end of 1973 and the emergence of strong inflationary trends the
world over. Commodity prices in this period were influenced to a large
extent by factors which could not have been foreseen. Copper prices rose
to 101 cents a lb. in December 1973 and to 138 cents a lb. in April 1974.
10.       As copper prices rose, they were reflected in the revenues and
foreign exchange position of Zambia which improved by an amount greatly ex-
ceeding the amount of the program loan.   As a consequence, Zambia's need to
draw on the program loan diminiqhed.   This, comhined with nrocpduiral nroh-
lems referred to in the PCR (paras. 11-13), meant that disbursement on the
program loan was nt n much slonwr pace than envisaged, being only US$5
million by December 1973.
11.       In the early 1974 discussions began which led to the cancellation
of ..th bVtLflnc-.of the ln. A    Lta U Vim VLvLU . then Ja LBank 1ai,tn de  coider at Vio 1.
a request from Zambia for a supplementary loan for the Kariba North Power
Pro4ect.  T.his request had come a com-pa-ratively_ short tieatr- the- Bank had
i  ~ ~  O L Mf~I.tiu  L'h~a   L   p LaL.LVM.Ly  OLLULL  L.LUi-- c*LLtL  LLLI: D1t1L&  ICU
made a loan of US$115 million for the Kafue II Power Project. As a result
ofL thLe UiLscussbions wtitL thLe GoverrLmLuent iLt was agreedU thLat the[ Un'U.LrsUL5feU
balance of the program loan (US$17.5 million) would be cancelled and the
equivalent amount adl locatedu to thLe Ka-riba North PUroject.  ILn 1 this way the
Bank reverted to project lending once the program assistance was no longer
needed.
12.        ne balance of the loan was cancelled in June 1974.   During the
following six months the effect of the 1974 world recession was reflected
in copper prices wnich fell from about 111 cents a lb. to 58 cents a lb. and
they remained at about that level throughout 1975.
Disbursement and Supervision
13.       The PCR (paras. 11, 12, 13) describes the reasons for the slow
disbursement of the loan. Part of the reason was that, despite eligible
imports coming in at an adequate rate, the Zambian authorities were not able
to present the necessary documents. Supervision was devoted primarily to



- 4 -
efforts to ensure rapid disbursement of the program loan and fulfillment of
the policy understandings.   The Bank offered its assistance to the Government
in reviewing internal procedural difficulties in order to ensure faster dis-
bursement, and the Government took steps in that direction.     So also, detailed
discussions were held in December 1973 by a Bank mission with the Government
on progress in fulfilling policy understandings. If these did not achieve
their purpose fully, it was mainly because, with rising copper prices, the
economic context had changed and the urgency to draw on the Bank loan had
disappeared.
Procedures for Withdrawal of Counterpart Funds
14.       The PCR (paras. 7 and 9) refers to the procedure laid down for
withdraw1 of roninternart funds and the failure of the Government to observe
them. The appraisal mission had discussed in detail the 1973 development
exronAlitl  nf 7nmhin nnd foulnd it satiifartory! a nart of this was to hb
financed out of counterpart funds. Twenty-two heads under the Government's
investment program, accounting for an a     rized47aA p-urivcisi of IC 110.iO nil-
lion in the 1973 budget, were specified in the Loan Agreement, and, of this,
K 101.r6 million was eligible for counterpart financing    Expenditure cate-
gories agreed upon included education, health, local authorities, rural devel-
opment, mng and nonal resourc            transport,  ommuatIons, naL,nr
works, and industry. Assuming the program loan had been fully disbursed, it
wouLdU h'ave generated. countlerpartl funds of alb.outL K 19. million (or about !-8 per-
cent of the development expenditure). In fact, only US$12.5 million out of
thLe program loan was d'U's±urseU, generating counterpart 4funds4 Of4 1 8    4lin
15.       The Bank of Zambia did not open a separate special account for
counterpart funds, but instead credited them to the Ministry of Finance's
general account along with the much larger amount of funds from the Govern-
nent's regular fiscal sources. The Ministry then submitted to the Bank two
certificates of expenditures under the approved investment program eligible
'or reimbursement in an amount totallina about US$12.5 million equivalent.
oince the amounts of counterpart funds accumulated at those times were less
zhan the amoints hilp for reimbursement- thev were in effect debited against
anticipated deposits of counterpart funds (para. 9 of PCR).
Policy Understandings
16.       Negotiations leading to the approval of the Program Loan covered
Zambia's development program for 1973 as also economic policies which the
Government proposed to adopt to cope with the crisis caused by low copper
prices. These policies related to a number of matters, including a wage
freeze, a reduction in subsidies and the pricing of agricultural products.
The PCR (para. 10) discusses Government actions taken in respect of these
policies.



- 5 -
17.       Faced by budgetary difficulties, the Government had to prune de-
velopment expenditures for 1973, including expenditure on ongoing projects.
As regards wages, the Government was able to bring about a freeze in the
remuneration of its employees and to moderate escalation in private sector
wages, particularly in the copper industry. The Government made cuts in
foodgrain subsidies, but had to withdraw them owing to agitation by affected
groups. The Government had also proposed to increase the prices of import-
saving food items and of export commodities such as cotton, tobacco, maize
and groundnut. However, the price increases made in 1974 were moderate.
Apnarentlv. the adontion of a policy of wage-freeze restricted the Government
ability to cut subsidies and raise prices of items of agricultural production
for domestic consumption.
Clonr 1 lqi Ofnq
1        Probhbly thTlhe most cicgnificant- rncrluiQinn to hb draLwn froim the
experience of the first program loan to Zambia is that where an economy is
highly dependent on a   ommodity w1nce price flucrtuantc wirealy  the. diircect
impact of the loan can be lost or nullified by the much larger forces which
operate on the economy.   Tihe ds   so        it leto tis pg         loa6 began
at a time when world copper prices had been relatively low for some two years,
after severa'l years ofL -4LS4 risin pr-Jrices.  Y.owever -, by the time the implication
dLL~L  ~~V~L i   UL  U  LIL~1JiJ.L~~.  LLUWC_VC_.L, uY  LI  L.LU  LiIC U I j.LLAUI
for the Zambian economy could be investigated, an agreement on the necessary
policy response reached,a loan negotiated aIIU IL arrangCUeLmLLn LU L U rsement
worked out, copper prices had recovered to a level which led the Zambian Gov-
ernment and the Bank to agree that the justification for the loan no longer
existed.  Therefore, by agreement with the Government of Zambia, the undis-
bursed balance was cancelled.
19.       Although, in the light of events, the loan did not turn out to be
essential, during the time-span originally envisaged, to enable Zambia to
follow the development policies it had adopted to adjust to its new financial
constraints, these policies continued to be necessary in view of the decline
in copper prices in the second half of 1974. The economic policy discussions
which were initiated with the first program loan have been continued over the
last few years and led, in 1976, to a second program loan. A significant
innovation which the Government has introduced is a Development Equalization
Account which is intended to ensure that development expenditure grows more
steadily and is less influenced by fluctuations in mineral revenue. If
this Account can be successfully managed it could reduce the need for pro-
gram loans arising from this cause.
Operations Evaluation Department



W.1  I   '-'1'  '''I''  1  1  1  141 M  1  '  I
I  A~I1.1
1 5F TI Ai          I
ss 0-- 1- tLWI Il4+
i_\ X|--      L4 1- t- -14-U4 -I--
u  %t1~~~~~~ Il,lv
_ E ~~1 t 1 1T tiI
s   I    I      1I H1 11/X1 
_   A        I *9 | fl7  i  7  ft t  t   |  7



EiNAL UKAk1
A I
November 15, 1976
ZAMBIA
COMPLETION REPORT
FIRST PROGRAM LOAN (Loan 911-ZA)
Tntroluction
1.        t*,he infor,ation 4n this report is dra-r fro-m the preparation,
appraisal and supervision mission reports relAtpd to t-hp First Prornm
Loan to Zambia. the Loan Agreement and side letters, and reports by
special missions that prepared the Second Program Loan signed in September
1976.   A more detailed description and analysis of Zambia's economy since
the time of the First Program Loan can be found in the President's Report
(No. P-1811a-ZA, dated August 9, 1976) on the Second Program Loan.
Economic Situation Preceding the Program Loan
2.        Zambia's economic situation began deteriorating early in 1970
when the world price of copper, the country's major export and source of
domestic revenue, dropped sharply. Compounding this problem, the largest
copper mine in the country, Mufulira, flooded in September 1970 causing
a severe loss in production. The twin effects of declining copper prices
and production dealt severe blows to Zambia's foreign exchange holdings
and Government revenues. The current account in the balance of payments
swung from a surplus of K86 million in 1970 to deficits of K187 million and
KiO0 million in 1971 and 1972. Reserves fell from K380 million in mid-1970, a level
equal to a year's worth of imports in i1I9 Lerms, to K75 miiiion, just over
LWLJUIULLL1~WULLA UL.LWjJUL WY LLI~ IU UJ .L7Id.. %fV=LILUL"-L&LLLULL
two m,onthLs' worthl of iJports by te end of1972.   Government recurrent
revenues in 1h9e71 anA 1972 were 25s below ahe 1c70 level, tnh  Ge recurrent
hzanot- chnwosA Aaf i1 41fTC 4n T1 nt-h uTD g.C va AC < nncntoo t  rna  nno 
inveptmpnt nrograms in rcurrpnt tprms in 1971 ana 1Q72 Wprp 1l    hpblow thb
1970 level.
3.        Discussions about the Program Loan began in late 1972 as it
became clear that the economic crisis had reached major proportions, even



Government was to review the whole structure of subsidies and prices to
determine which subsidies should be eliminated, to estahlish a nati;nrl
pricing policy designed to promote economic diversification and resource
mobilization, and to implement the necessary policy chanRes over a period
of time.
Implementation and Counterpart Funds
7.        Once the Executive Directors approved the Program Loan (June 14,
1973), it was quickly signed (June 18, 1973) and made effective (June 29,
1973). The loan was designed to be disbursed quickly. The proceeds could
be applied to a wide range of imports of capital and intermediate goods
for the private and public sectors. The Bank of Zambia was required to
open a special project account in the name of the Government to which would
be credited the Kwacha equivalent of the imports financed under the project.
The Government could withdraw funds from the project account to cover capital
development expenditures in amounts up to 50% of amounts actually spent under
the 1973 capital investment program (only a few non-developmental capital
expenditure items were ineligible.) The Program Loan and the counterpart
funds were expected to be disbursed by the end of 1973.
8.        Contrary to expectations, disbursements under the Program Loan
started very slowly. By December 31, 1973, disbursements amounted to only
$5.0 million, or 17% of projections. When this trend continued into the
first quarter of 1974, the Government and the Bank agreed to cancel $17.5
million of the loan. The rationale for this decision was (a) that because of the
sharp rise in copper prices the need for balance of payments and budget sup-
port had practically disappeared and (b) that considerations of Bank exposure
in Zambia became important when the next Bank project in Zambia (Kariba North
Power, Supplemental Loan) turned out to be more costly than anticipated and
thus needed a larger Bank loan ($42.1 million) than had been expected.



- A.5 -
The cancellation of the undisbursed portion of the Program Loan and the corre-
sponding increase of the Kariba North Supplemental loan thus in effect caused
a reallocation of our lending to Zambia. The last disbursement under the
Program Loan took place on June 17, 1974, when a disbursement level of $12.5
million was reached.
9.        Regarding the use of counterpart funds, the Bank of Zambia apparently
did not open a separate special account, but credited them instead to the
Ministry of Finance's general account along with the much larger amount of
funds from the Government's regular fiscal sources. The Ministry submitted
two certificates of expenditures made under the agreed-upon heads of the 1973
investment nrogram and stating the amounts of counterpart funds due for with-
drawal in each sase.   The first; in Octobhr 1973. was for the Kwacha enuivalent
of US$7.0 millinn Pvpn though at that time onlv abhoit UTS$2=4 millinn of the
prongram 1oan had beean d ishb-uorse  Thlis  onmo of the reraimhburscmentc from the
counterpart funds were in effect debited against anticipated depositss.    Al th.ough
the Bank asked for an explanation from the Ministry, none was received.     The
scondVL  .CL X 4        .LJC _=4caVeL  1 D e  I J, X lis e AI&I  Ct{ t.eVeq CLLv e t V1  JyS. ..J 1111. L - II
as eli gibe for re[UUl. btrsei=L I,  utL made 1n request for wit LIL drawal since tLle
initial application had covered all reimbursements "so far received jinto the
prolj ctL daCcoUInL.  1 11 '  procedure, thIOugh1 Uficte-etL £ 1I1 L dL dI L CCU dL L1Lt
time the loan was made, achieveu the purpose OL assurlng that counterpatL fUItUb
were used for the approved investment program, and the Bank therefore accepted it.
10.       On the policy level, the Government implemented several of the
understandings agreed with the Bank during the formulation of
the Program Loan. The Government maintained the investment expenditures,
which the Bank had reviewed and considered essential for Zambia's develop-
ment program. Wages were restrained in the urban sector, particularly
those for miners and civil servants, although this made it difficult for
the Government to quickly reduce the level of subsidies benefitting the



- A.6 -
urban cons,,mer and to restore rpelistif nrice levels.  The Government made
;ittle- headway on, r- lirno the dlifficuiii nroblems associated with its
pattern of subsidies and price controls  n tha two ,   ner  period foll wing
the .Progrm..  Loan. With the benefit of hindsight, it is clear that we had
underestim.ated thi-e political difficulties thle Governm.ent was facing a
tie tirne. Oeveral of the mueasures proposed woulAu Iave started stimulating
agricuILure and wouic have brought about an imIpruveIllilL UL LLLte budgetary
situation, but they would also have led to an increase in consumer prices,
which the Government was committed to keep down. In fact, the Government
did announce substantial consumer price increases in November i974, but was
forced to roll them back again because of political pressure. In mid-1975,
however, certain consumer prices were increased again. The Government was also
under considerable pressure, as a result of record high copper prices, to
increase wages in the urban sector, particularly for miners and civil
servants. The Government did not permit wages to increase significantly
until early 1975 when a public sector salary commission recommended
graduated wage boosts for civil servants. In brief, it is clear that the
Government was not unwilling to carry out policy changes, but that it
simply needed more time to overcome political constraints to implement
these policies than the one or two years which the Bank had estimated to
be feasible in its discussions leading up to the Program Loan. Although
discussions on policies set in motion by the Program Loan resulted in
little immediate effect on Zambia's economic development policies, a
constructive discussion continued between the Bank and the Government on
economic development policies and issues and, by the time of the Second
Program Loan, significant policy improvements had been accomplished as a
result of these policy discussions.



_ A.7 -
Disbursement Procedures
11.       Several reasons could be offered to explain why the Government did
not fully - or quickly - utilize the funds provided through the Program Loan.
The improved price of cooper enabled Government recurrent revenues in 1973 to
exceed expenditures for the first time since 1970; and led to a current
account  uirnpl ni on the halanre of pavments=  Thi 8  i tiiatinn iindoutihedlyv
created an nntimiqtir atmosphere whirh lessened the pressures to iitilie the
1 9    ~Tbi pa rt-u it1 r flint' Auinoc  -a~ bli 4hed For Adocuimenting  1-Wit dawal..
x EV_Wi LII s LIL | XLUiUL  UUVLUJ_IIGILI LU X11 W1pi~  Dy LLL LUlhCLid UdIU z;ri1T  nm AglrroFoll 1O  _  A1m  .5  appiicd
requests prcntrebute  to- the prvlow dsectro -en lrofwter wrgam To oan.  For
_ _ ~ s _ : 11 _ _:_ J  _ _. L.  t-  LIL        _       PL   U    LLI   __  t,1______ _ L_______ .__
Wt tll     foC:ltJloUwing 'Uo-U-WIL  LU UU bUPP X L U Luy LiLL t! ulrc|d  UilMs .  ppLLCd-
tion Jor IUOLrnI exchianige allocaLion, suppLier-s invoice, uiii oi entry and/or
bill of lading and evidence of payment.   For goods obtained ior the pUDiiC
sector by the Central Supply and Tender Board (CSTB), the Borrower was to
provide the Bank with similar documentation (except for the application for
foreign exchange) and a certificate from CSTB that the contract had been
awarded in accordance with procedures for tendering and procurement set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
13.       The Ministry of Finance had considerable difficulty in assembling
the necessary documentation for withdrawal applications, and several factors
contributed to this problem. First, the Loan Agreement defined eligible
import categories according to SITC groups, but on Zambian import documents
goods are listed according to the BTN classification system. Although conver-
sion from one system to the other is relatively simple through a conversion
list, many ineligible imports were submitted to the Ministry of Finance and
had to be sorted out. Second, commercial banks were slow in submitting the



A 0
necessary import documents against which the Bank could disburse; their own
files were often incomplete and, in the absence of a fee, there was no
incentive for the commercial banks to comply. Third, the Ministry of Finance
was understaffed and the number of import transactions for which documenta-
tion was needed was very large. Finally, large amounts of imports entered
the country financed outside the Zambian commercial bank channel. All imports
of the mining companies, the largest importers of capital goods, were paid for
directly through their overseas accounts under a general open license.
Although these imports were eligible for reimbursement from the Program Loan,
the Bank's documentation requirements effectively excluded them from considera-
tion.
Conclusions
14.       The Program Loan was dpgioned to have an impact on three iportant
areas of the Zambi-n ecnonmy: the balance of pa-ments through provision of
9            UU,,6_t_  i. 'd LI  L L L .1. 0.  O [LC p
foregn  xchage;the inve-m.ent budget through, the re ease of counterpart
funds; and the dlrectLion of econom'Lc growth by maintaining thle investment
budget and influencing policy decisions to stimulate rural development and
diversification.   The impact on the balance of payments was minimal due to
improving copper prices, which lessened the Government's need to utilize
the Loan funds. Because of poorly designed disbursement procedures, the
Bank disbursed only a small portion of the Loan. Clearly, the Bank was
unfamiliar with Zambia's procedures for documenting imports, and during the
Loan's preparation this matter was not investigated carefully enough.
15.       The use OL co-unterpart funds did not become a significant factor
since only a small portion of the Loan was disbursed.    One benefit oL
including provisions concerning counterpart funds in the Loan appear to have
been the opportunity the Bank had to review in depth the Government's 1973



- A-9 -
investment budget. The Bank, however, would have reviewed the appropriateness
of the investment budget as part of the regular economic work program though
not in as much depth, and in any case would have reviewed the investment
program irrespective of the fact that there were provisions for the use of
counterpart funds in the Program Loan. In any event, the widely defined
range of items in the investment budget to which the use of counterpart funds
could be applied did not offer any real means of control. Even though the
Bank did not feel the need for more control, it should have paid closer
attention to the Government's compliance with the requirement to set up a
separate project account in the Bank of Zambia. Also, the confusion generated
by the Government's proposed use of counterpart funds before they were avail-
able should have been clarified.
16.       The most successful aspect of the Program Loan was the forum it
provided for a constructive discussion of the Government's investment prior-
ities and the policy initiatives required to strengthen the economy. The
results for 1973 show that the investment budget remained intact (although
the rise in copper prices was possibly the main factor), and that the Govern-
ment implemented several of the policies discussed with the Bank. These
achievements were the result of the discussions initiated with the Government
and not the result of provisions in the Program Loan's legal agreement, as
disbursements were not tied legallv to imDlementation of the investment
program- nor to the imnlementation of certain nolicies.    In separating dis-
hiirsements from polcin  obieritives; the Bank was onerating under the premise
that the broad natuire0 of the nplirv ohiectives nnd investment nronprams made
4-    ------4prit-e to link their implementation to A4 d1iivrcmvents



- A.10 -
17.        The Progra.M. Toan would have haa ad  ,, ao-e -inific-nt impact on
7a-ibla's balance of payments position L i    it had bLeen m.ade earlLer than
r,,id1973when copper prices already 'a' largely recovered.
.iLU L7IJ WL1~I CUJj     L pL2 L acuy IL U _L Le±   LUVcU.
Yet, deterum 4ning the appropriate timing in the meidst of a crisis can be
U1.1.Lcuit giver. the tLme required to prepare and negotiate a loan, and given
.n O~ 1. L1E   Li.  C j L  UL±L  L.                                      U,i~~d uu~ LijJdLkL L o~. L
the volatility of copper priLces.    Perhaps a miore 'Lim1portant lesson is that-
as long as the Zambian economy remalns dependent upon copper, future program
loans should be designed to result in the impiementation of specific economic
policies to diversify the economy. In the First Loan, these objectives were
broadly discussed, some actions initiated, but no specific provisions were
included in the legal agreement. The Second Loan embodies specific provis-
ions to help achieve these objectives, including the strengthening of the
Ministry of Rural Development, a periodic review of the price structure and
the creation of a special equalization account to dampen the effect of
cyclical swings in copper prices on Government investment expenditures.



