Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12623
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
ROAD TRANSPORT AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3207-ME)
DECEMBER 23, 1993
Country Operations Division I
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT - NEW PESO (MEX N$)
Mexico has a managed exchange rate with a pre-announced
devaluation of a maximum of 40 centavos daily. On April 1, 1993, the
exchange rate was US$1.00 = MEX N$3. 1381.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BANOBRAS           National Bank for Public Works and Services (Banco
Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos)
DGMPT              Directorate General for Preventive Medicine in
Transportation (Direcci6n General para Medicina
Preventiva en Transporte)
DGPNC              Directorate General of Policies and Norms (Direcci6n
General de Politicas y Normas de Comunicaci6n)
FNM                Mexican Railways (Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico)
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GNP                Gross National Product
GoM                Government of Mexico
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
MULTIMODAL         A semi public company for transportation of containers
NAFTA              North American Free Trade Agreement
PACTO              Economic Solidarity Pact
PECE               Pact for Stabilization and Growth
SCT                Ministry of Communications and Transport (Secretarfa
de Comunicaciones y Transporte)
SECOFI             Ministry of Trade and Industrial Development
(Secretarfa de Comercio y Fomento Industrial)
SHCP               Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (Secretarfa de
Hacienda y Credito Publico)
TAL                Technical Assistance Loan
TELECOMM           Telecomunicaciones de M6xico
TELMEX             Telefonos de M6xico S.A. de C.V.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 23, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Mexico Road Transport and
Telecommunications Sector Adjustment Project (Loan 3207-ME)
Attached is a copy of the "Project Completion Report on Mexico - Road
Transport and Telecommunications Sector Adjustment Project (Loan 3207-ME)", pre-
pared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.   The report
includes a contribution by the Borrower (Part II).
The project was part of an economic reform package to stimulate
sector efficiency.   It sought to restructure telecommunications  and road
transport (trucking). Main components were: privatization and regulatory reform
in telecommunications; deregulation of trucking; and institutional changes. The
project, which had a good footing in preparatory studies, was efficiently
processed and implemented according to plans.  The loan was fully and quickly
disbursed. Visible achievements correspond to the agreed Policy Matrix prescrip-
tions with no significant shortcomings. Efficiency gains and improved service
in both sectors are beginning to show up.
Overall  project  outcome  was  satisfactory  and  institutional
development substantial.  With a strong government commitment to continue the
economic reform process, sustainability is likely. PCR quality is good.
The project will be audited.  Of particular interest will be the
approach to sector reform, complementary actions needed to shore up gains made,
effects on economic agents (in particular the general public) and replicability.
Attachment
This docuxnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
ROAD TRANSPORT AND TELECOMMUJNICATIONS
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN NO. 3207-ME)
Table of Contents
PREFACE  .          ...........................................   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY   ................................  ii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....  1
Project Identity ...................................    1
Background  .....................................    1
Project Objectives and Description  ......................   4
Project Design and Organization  .......................   5
The Telecommunications Program . .................   6
The Transportation Program  .....................   7
Project Implementation and Major Results .................  10
The Telecommunications Program   .................  10
The Transportation Program  .....................  14
Project Sustainability  ...............................  21
Bank Performance .................................  23
Borrower Performance ..............................  24
Project Relationship ................................  24
Consulting Services  ................................  25
Project Documentation and Data  .......................  25
Lessons Learned  ..................................  25
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE   .............................  33
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .....................  52
Table 1 Related Bank Loans  ...............................  52
Table 2 Project Timetable .................................  52
Table 3 Loan Disbursements  ...............................  53
Table 4 Project Cost and Financing ...........................  53
Table 5 Use of Bank Resources  .............................  53
Table 6 Mission Data ....................................  54
ANNEXES
Annex 1 Policy Letter ....................................  55
Annex 2 Policy Matrix  ...................................  58
Annex 3 Selected Indicators of TELMEX Performance ....               ..........  62
Annex 4 The Efrects of Road Freight Deregulation .................  69
Annex 5 Action Plan for Road Safety  .........................  73
REFERENCES  ..........                ..............................   78
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofFicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MEXICO
ROAD TRANSPORT AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3207-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Road Transport
and Telecommunications Sector Adjustment Loan to Mexico (Loan 3207-ME)
in an amount equivalent to US$380 million approved on May 29, 1990. It
was closed on June 30, 1991, as planned. It was fully disbursed and the last
disbursement was made on May 23, 1991.
The PCR was prepared by the Mexico Country Operations Division
(LA2C1) in the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). Part II was prepared by the Ministry
of Communications and Transport (SCT).
Preparation of this PCR started in January 1993 and is based, inter-
alia on the Report and Recommendations of the President, the Loan and
Guarantee Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank memoranda and sector work
performed by the Bank.






ii
MEXICO
ROAD TRANSPORT AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3207-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
i.    Objective. The Road Transport and Telecommunications Sector Loan
was part of a program of Bank support to the Mexican Govemment's plans to
promote structural reforms across many sectors of the economy so as to
resume sustainable economic growth. The loan supported a comprehensive
structural reform program in the road transport and telecommunications
sectors to improve their efficiency benefitting all users and, in particular,
firms which conduct trade related business, for which communication
services are an important input. The framework of the sector programs
supported under the project was subscribed to by Government in the National
Development Plan for 1989-1994. (para. 9)
ii.   Implementation Experience. Project implementation went well. The
loan was signed 7 days after Board approval and became effective 20 days
later, on June 25, 1990. By the end of August the first tranche had been
fully disbursed. Approval of second tranche release was given in May,
1991, somewhat behind the target date of November 15, 1990. By the end
of May, the loan was fully disbursed, and it was closed on June 30, 1991,
as planned.
iii.   The experience with the implementation of measures to achieve
compliance with second tranche conditions was very positive. The key issues
under the project were deregulation of transport and privatization of
Telefonos de Mexico (TELMEX). In both aspects, achievements exceeded
expectations. The cornerstone of the reform process in the
telecommunications sector was the privatization of TELMEX. By the end of
1990 TELMEX had been effectively privatized (para. 27). Analogously, in
the transport sector the central objective was deregulation, which involved
removing entry restrictions, eliminating discretionary freight allocations,
allowing freight rates to be market determined and breaking up the
MIULTIMODAL (a semi public company for transportation of containers)
transport monopoly. All these were achieved well before second tranche
release in May, 1991. (para. 41)
iv.   The loan also sought policy actions in various areas which, though not
vital to the project objectives, were perceived to be important to further
improve efficiency. Compliance was also achieved earlier than expected for
the increase in railway tariffs. In other areas, delays occurred, for example,



iii
in the completion of the studies for road safety, the presentation of the action
plan for Telecomunicaciones de Mexico (TELECOMM), and the hiring of
consultants to strengthen the regulatory capacity of the Secretarfa de
Comunicaciones y Transporte (SCT) in the telecommunications sector.
(Annex 2)
v.    Results. On balance, the result of the privatization in the
telecommunications sector has been very positive. The privatization process
itself has been widely praised and has been the subject of case studies that
emphasized the constructive role of labor negotiations, the transfer of control
to the Secretarfa de Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP), the realignment of
tariffs, a clear concession contract, the restructuring of capital, the selling of
shares by trenches, etc. The timing of all privatization activities was
properly handled, the concession contract itself seems to be adequate and
most objectives for privatization have been met. In this regard, the Bank
concern about the handling of the sale of TELMEX being the major risk in
this operation proved to be unfounded, due basically to the high expertise and
seriousness provided by the innovative Mexican team that managed the
operation. (para. 28)
vi.   A further concern relates to the overall behavior of the system from
the point of view of competition. TELMEX was allowed to keep a
monopoly position in local and long distance services until mid 1996. At the
same time the regulatory capacity of ScT has been weak relative to the
requirements for enforcement of the concession contract or interconnection
issues. No clear indication exists today about whether the Government will
effectively grant a new concession for long distance services, and in what
terms and when, even though it is reported that a significant number of
domestic and foreign companies are interested in participating. The
definitive opening of this segment might be the only guarantee for the reform
to be consistent with efEciency objectives. (para. 32)
vii.   Transport deregulation is having a major positive impact in Mexico.
All aspects of concern at the time of project appraisal, e.g. entry, tariffs,
service, have been positively achieved, in line with expectations of the
positive impact that competition would have in this market. Government
commitment and the speed of reform implementation were positive factors in
the prompt response of all parties involved. The early (July 1989) agreement
with truckers' associations was an important element in the speedy
implementation of the reforms. (para. 41; Annex 4)
viii. The discussion of road safety issues, within the context of the sector
loan, helped to raise the level of awareness on safety issues within the
Mexican road administration. Better coordination of actions and some
indications of improvement in accident indicators have helped in the
advancement of policies and measures regarding road safety. This was the
primary purpose for the Bank's continuous dialogue with the Mexican
government on this issue. However, improving road safety is a lengthy
process in an adequate path for further progress, and a proposed highway



iv
rehabilitation and traffic safety loan incorporates a major component for
safety improvements. (para. 46)
ix.   The Government made an initial adjustment of rates for railway traffic
as agreed with the Bank. Further adjustments were not made, however, so
that in 1991 and 1992 rates declined again relative to long run variable costs,
contributing to a worsening of Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico (FNM)
financial conditions. In essence, the policy was not sustained over time.
There are some indications, however, that the Bank's overwhelming concern
with prices was excessive in the context of important structural changes in
demand and cost conditions that reflect inefficient firm size and operation
practices. Since costs were excessive, the rule that prices should cover long
run variable costs did not lead to an efficient resource allocation. In this
sense, the Mexican response of designing a modernization program for FNM
and improving on the use of direct negotiations for price setting seems to
have a greater potential for increasing sector efficiency. (paras. 47-49)
x.    A one time adjustment of the price of diesel fuel, as agreed under the
terms of the loan, was effectively carried out during 1990 by the Mexican
authorities. Further adjustments were even higher than those required to
maintain the level of cost recovery by trucks. Coupled with further increases
in other user charges and a decline in the international price of oil ( as
reference for the opportunity cost of diesel) the objective of the policy
proposal has been met in more recent years. (paras. 52-53)
xi.   The Govemment of Mexico (GoM) made an important effort in
increasing the allocation for its road maintenance expenditures during 1990
and 1991 by doubling the resources allocated to this activity in the latter part
of the eighties. The new allocations adequately complied with the loan
target. Expenditures on routine maintenance, however, seem to have lagged
behind both in relative and absolute terms. (paras. 59-60)
xii.   Emission norms and inspection procedures were effectively established
for trucks and buses operating on federal roads, in compliance with agreed
loan conditions. (paras. 63-65)
xiii.  Sustainability. The sustainability of the project in the
telecommunications area is assured by the success of Govemment in
developing a comprehensive modemization program directed to increasing
investment through private sector participation and promoting efficiency
through correct price regulations and through competition. The comerstone
of the program was the privatization of TELMEX. In addition a new set of
regulations (a Reglamento), for the sector was issued to provide a
comprehensive framework for the supply of communications services. At the
same time the public sector institutions were reorganized, clearly separating
regulatory and planning functions from operational responsibilities. This
comprehensive integration of all elements in the design of the reform package
is an important contribution to sustainability of the reforms. (para. 68)



v
xiv.   Sustainability of the transport deregulation policies is assured by
Govemment commitment, as proven by the further opening measures
negotiated under the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). The
weakest point of the reform program remains the lack of sufficient
strengthening of SCT to assume its new roles which has delayed the
development of some important norms and policies. (paras. 69, 73)
xv.   Lessons Leaned. The privatization process of TELMEX, by itself,
constitutes an interesting lesson for the privatization of large public sector
companies with monopolistic characteristics and good market potential. As
has been noted in existing studies', elements like worker's participation
through share-holding, the restructuring of capital, the selling of shares by
tranches, the use of both the domestic and international stock market, a
carefully designed concession contract, the realignment of sector tariffs and
taxes, among others, contributed greatly to the success of the selling
operation. No less important was the handling of the process by a high level
unit linked to SHCP, with accumulated experience from earlier public
enterprise sales. (para. 84)
xvi.  The preparation for privatization of TELMEX yields an important
esson. From the operation of TELMEX for two years under private
management, the large potential for investment growth and productivity
increases is immediately evident. These translate quickly into significant
profits. With hindsight, expectations for improvements were too
conservative, and therefore more room was in practice available for the
setting of investment and quality targets, as well as tariff ceilings.
Unforeseen concems associated with high company profits and still low
levels of service (particularly the waiting period for installation) appear to be
emerging as issues in the development of policies in the sector. However,
the tax regime, under which favorable tax treatment is contingent upon
reinvestment of profits acts as a safeguard. Provisions for adjustments in the
calculation of the price-caps in later years, beyond 1996, also addresses these
issues. (para. 85 and Annex 3)
xvii. A lesn to be drawn from the experience gained in this project
supports the position of promoting free entry for competition in all areas
where possible as this policy helps to develop enterprises that will be the
only certain guarantee for efficient sector development. From the perspective
of competition, the decision of postponing the opening of the long distance
telecommunication services until 1996, even though it might have been the
only practical altemative available, clearly contributes to the entrenchment of
the current operator. With a weak regulatory power, high profits and
opportunities for monopolistic practices may in the end limit future
competition. In contrast, the licensing of concessions to private operators for
cellular services, in competition with TELMEX, will critically contribute to
1.    See 'References', p. 59. The studies of Tandon (4) and IDB (1) describe in detail
the privatization process and evaluate some of its implications. See also (2) and (6).



vi
future real competition. These companies are now in a stage of organization
geared towards expanding their role into the long distance service. (para. 86)
xviii. Another important Ilessn concerns the difficulties of transforming a
public sector agency which has lost previous key functions in the
privatization process into a regulatory body. Sustainability of the regulatory
policies is potentially at risk due to the slow progress on institutional
reorganization and strengthening of the public sector entities related to the
telecommunications modernization program. A regulatory body within a
ministry, like DGPNC in SCT, is difficult to strengthen from within the
normal public sector apparatus, as restrictions on personnel shedding and
hiring and salaries slow the pace of the proper development of these
institutions. Development of new skills is a long term process and
restrictions on the required personnel changeover sets up greater barriers to
progress. In view of these constraints, the Bank efforts towards the
provision of technical and informational expertise for the formation of this
regulatory body, through a specific assistance project, has thus far had
limited results. The main recommendation for future operations is to
strengthen the identification and proposals for alternatives regarding the
institutional arrangements for a regulatory entity like SCT's DGPNC. To
solve the administrative inflexibilities (salaries, hiring, etc.) caused by
operating within a ministry-type of organization, this regulatory role might be
moved to a separate superintendency-type of institution. This or other
formulas (contracting external auditors to verify TELMEX's compliance)
could be more fully explored by the Bank. (para. 87)
xix. In the road transportation area the Mexican experience confirms so far
the feasibility and effectiveness of such a massive and quick deregulation
process. Major deregulation measures were implemented during 1989 and
early 1990. These measures have contributed effectively to the ease of entry,
diversity of services and some cost and price reductions for road freight
transportation. The analysis shows so far that the market has reacted in the
direction predicted by economic theory and that significant improvements in
efficiency are taking place. Concerns with excessive instability of prices or
services have proven unfounded. Also important adjustments of enterprises
are occurring with the significant appearance of one-man truck operations.
(para. 88)
xx. There is, however, a Ilsn to be learned concerning the risk of
pressures to reverse some of the measures taken, since in the deregulation
process it is unavoidable that some agents who had enjoyed earlier privileges
under protected markets will stand to lose. The emergence of significant
opposition by large trucking companies who represent former protected
interests and have been negatively affected by deregulation, is still an issue
that is present after three and a half years from the first deregulation
measures. While it does not seem feasible for the Bank to introduce long-
term measures in policy-based projects on such issues, guidance and advice
based on international experience may be offered. (para. 89)






1
MEXICO
ROAD TRANSPORT AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3207-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Name              Road Transport and
Telecommunications Sector
Adjustment Loan
Loan No.           3207-ME
RVP Unit           LAC Region
Country           Mexico
Sector            Infrastructure
Type Loan          Sector Adjustment
Background
1.    Between 1950 and 1974, Mexico enjoyed a remarkable period of high
growth, low inflation and moderate external debt accumulation. Real growth
averaged 6.4%, and inflation was in single digits throughout the period, in
line with the prudent fiscal policies followed. This era of fiscal conservatism
came to an abrupt end in the early seventies. Government involvement in the
economy expanded rapidly, and increased public expenditure pushed up
aggregate demand and the rate of economic growth. However, the higher
government expenditure was not matched by rising public sector revenues.
As a result, the inflation tax and external debt became increasingly important
sources of public finance. At the same time, a decline in private savings
incentives (real interest rates tumed sharply downward) prevented a matching
increase in private savings; external debt thus increased, increased oil
revenues notwithstanding. The period of single digit inflation ended in 1973,
the real exchange rate started to appreciate and the accumulation of external
debt accelerated above the GNP growth rate. A serious, but comparatively
brief, financial and economic crisis in 1976 ended following major oil
discoveries in 1977. The ensuing prosperity lasted until 1982, when soaring
domestic inflation, falling international oil prices, rising world interest rates
and massive capital flight (an estimated US$21 billion in 1981-82) led to a



2
refusal by extemal creditors to roll over the principal of about US$8 billion
of Mexico's external public debt and a subsequent suspension of Mexican
extemal debt service payments.
2.    The onset of the financial and economic crisis of 1982 brought in its
wake explosive inflationary and balance of payments difficulties. Initial
strong fiscal and monetary adjustment efforts were altemately not sustained
for a sufficiently long period (1983-85) or undermined by external shocks
such as the collapse in international oil prices (1986). Despite the severe
fiscal adjustment, inflation, rather than slowing down, accelerated, partially
in response to the sharp real devaluation of the exchange rate necessitated by
the 1986 downtum in the terms of trade. The subsequent de fact targeting
of the real exchange rate, together with an increase in the frequency of wage
and cost adjustments, introduced an element of inherent instability into the
system. In that context, a speculative run on the peso in late 1987 prompted
a large peso devaluation and triple-digit inflation. Nonetheless, and despite
the sharp fall in oil prices, between 1981 and 1987 the primary deficit (non-
interest public expenditure minus public revenues) of 8% was transformed
into a surplus of 5.6% of GDP and the US$6 billion trade deficit was
transformed into a US$10 billion trade surplus.
3.    Domestic adjustment came along with three major commercial debt
reschedulings, respectively in 1982-83, 1984-85 and 1986-87. These major
reschedulings were linked with three debt restructurings agreed with Paris
Club creditors. As a consequence the average maturity of Mexico's foreign
debt increased from 8 years in 1981 to 14 years in 1987 and the spread over
LIBOR was reduced from 2 and 1/4 to 13/16 points.2 However, despite a
substantial drop in the average interest rate on foreign debt (from 14.9% in
1981 to 7.7% in 1987, due mainly to lower international interest rates), the
average annual net transfer to creditors over 1983-86 averaged US$5.5
billion, or about 4% of GDP. As a consequence Mexico's foreign debt was
unchanged (in real dollar terms) between 1983 and 1987. However,
economic growth ground to a virtual halt over 1982-87 along with a sharp
deterioration of living standards, a deteriorating infrastructure, high inflation,
and a loss of investor confidence.
4.    As a result of the 1989-90 debt restructuring under the Brady
initiative, a total of US$48.2 billion of commercial bank debt was
restructured. Mexico's fiscal performance remained outstanding and was
reflected in sizable reductions of domestic and foreign public debt in 1990-
92. Although the current account deteriorated sharply in 1990-91, this was
mainly the result of a private sector investment boom and was, in any case,
overfinanced by large private capital inflows (primarily portfolio and direct
foreign investment) leading to strong reserve accumulation of over US$10
billion in 1990-91.
2.    See World Bank Debt Tables, World Bank, 1991.



3
5.    Towards the second half of the 1980s a series of measures were taken
to reverse Mexico's economic decline. Their most important goals were
macroeconomic stability and a rationalized set of incentives for private sector
investment. In each of these areas the Mexican Government achieved notable
progress. Progress on these fronts, in turn, was required to negotiate a
credible financing plan with foreign commercial creditors from a strong
bargaining position and to be able to reap the benefits derived from the debt
deal thereafter.
6.    In late 1987 the Government announced and began implementing the
"Economic Solidarity Pact" (Pacto), an agreement between business, labor,
and government which called for accelerated structural reform, further
tightening of fiscal and monetary policy, a freeze of minimum wages and of
basic public and private sector prices, and, the cornerstone of the "Pacto", a
freeze of the nominal exchange rate against the U.S. dollar. The Pacto was
renewed, with important modifications, by the new Mexican administration
under the name of "PECE" (Pact for Stabilization and Growth). Under the
PECE and its successive renewals (the latest one in November 1991) public
tariffs and minimum wages were revised, controlled prices were revised and
most were de facto liberalized, and a daily adjustment of the peso exchange
rate against the U.S. dollar was introduced (one peso a day in 1989 which
gradually was reduced to 20 centavos a day in 1992 and increased again to
40 centavos in 1993). Contractual wages in the private sector were
liberalized as early as 1989.
7.    On almost every target that is under direct or indirect governmental
control, performance under the PECE has been exemplary, in some instances
going far beyond what was originally planned. Inflation dropped from 159%
in 1987 to an average of 23% in 1989-91 and to 11.9% in 1992. At the
same time, the economy has shown encouraging signs of economic recovery,
led by a strong resurgence of private investment and to a lesser extent private
consumption. Output growth was 3.2% in 1989, 4.4% in 1990 and 3.6% for
1991. Confidence in the economy was boosted by overall macroeconomic
policy consistency and an array of structural reforms including trade,
financial and fiscal reforms, the 1990 debt agreement, the privatization of the
telephone company described in this report, and steel companies and
commercial banks (whose substantial proceeds were allocated mainly to
domestic debt reduction in 1991) and, more recently, advanced discussions
on a North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and the flexibilization
of the collective rural land tenure system ("ejido"). NAFTA, and associated
with it a likely profound transformation of the agricultural system, is crucial
both because it would deepen the structural reform process and make it more
irreversible. Reflecting improved confidence in the economy, nominal
interest rates have declined to record low levels for the last 15 years and
Mexico received massive private capital inflows, on average US$9 billion in
1989-90 and an estimated US$17 billion in 1991. The current account
balance has deteriorated since 1988 but this is largely due to higher imports
caused by accelerating private sector investment and, to a lesser degree,
lower private saving. In short, while structural adjustment is by no means



4
complete, the progress which has already been achieved augurs well for a
period of sustained growth.
8.      Signs of a sustained recovery appeared only since 1991. In the
decade of the 1980s, average annual GDP growth was 1.6%. Slow growth
occurred also in the transport sector, not surprisingly since transport services
are a derived demand. From 1980 to 1988, transport sector output grew
only 4%, with the greatest contribution to sector growth coming from road
passenger transport (22% between 1980 and 1989). During the mid-eighties,
the Government established that in the markets for infrastructure services
regulations and interferences were excessive, producing major efficiency
losses, inadequate services, both in quantity and quality, distorted price
signals and insufficient sector modernization. In the particular case of
telecommunications the explosion of technological developments in the area
of electronics had opened many new opportunities for competition.
Numerous possibilities, focussed primarily on deregulation and privatization
policies, were identified to increase efficiency in both the transportation and
telecommunication sectors.
Project Objectives and Description
9.     The loan was part of a series of Bank loans to support the Mexican
Government's objectives of promoting private sector development and
increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of public sector institutions so as
to enable the resumption of economic growth. Between 1987 and 1991,
eleven sector loans and one interest support loan were approved by the
Board, for a total of US$5.6 billion. The sector loans covered actions in
critical areas like trade and export policies, as well as, specific production
and service sectors including mainly agriculture, industry and finance. One
loan was devoted to the divestiture and improvement of management of
public enterprises.3 The Road Transport and Telecommunications Sector
Adjustment Loan supported a program of reforms in two sectors (road
transport and telecommunications) which have in common that they both
provide a vital service to business activities in general and to external trade
in particular. By providing an appropriate institutional and regulatory
framework, the project was expected to spur competition, thus serving to
increase the efficiency of communications services and -- in the case of
telecommunications -- greatly expand its coverage. Resource allocation
3.     The sector loans approved were: Trade Policy I (Ln 2745-ME) for US$500 million;
Export Development II (Ln 2777-ME) for USS250 million; Steel Sector Restructuring
(Ln 2916-ME) for US$400 million; Agricultural Sector Loan (Ln 2918-ME) for US$300
million; Fertilizer Sector Loan (Ln 2919-ME) for US$265 million; Trade Policy II (Ln 2882-
ME) for US$500 million; Industrial Restructuring (Ln 3047-ME) for US$250 million;
Financial Sector Loan (Ln 3085-ME) for US$500 million; Public Enterprise Reform Loan
(Ln 3086-ME) for US$500 million; Industrial Sector Policy Loan (La 3087-ME) for US$500
million; and the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (La 3357-ME) for US$400 million.
The Interest Support Loan (Ln 3159-ME) in the total amount of US$1.26 billion was part of
the Bank's support for the Debt and Debt Service Reduction (DDSR) plan of the Government
of Mexico.



5
would be improved through greater reliance on market forces, and (in the
case of monopolies) on economic criteria for pricing. The framework of the
sector programs supported under the project was subscribed to by
Government in the National Development Plan for 1989-1994. The various
elements were spelled out in the Government's Policy Letter. (Annex 1)
10.   The project was cofinanced by a parallel loan of US$200 million from
the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), which was approved in the
same year. The project was also supported by the Bank's
Telecommunications Technical Assistance Loan (Ln 3208-ME), a parallel
free standing technical assistance loan (TAL) of US$22 million to finance
consultants to prepare plans for developing SCT's telecommunications
regulatory capacity, including management and monitoring of the radio
spectrum, as well as long term experts, training and equipment (computer
hardware and software, and radio monitoring facilities) required for the first
two years' implementation of these plans.4 The TAL also supported
TELECOMM in its start-up phase.
11.   The main components of the project included: (i) a program of
privatization and regulatory reform to promote competition and improve
services and tariff setting in the telecommunications sector and (ii) a program
of deregulation of the trucking sector. In both sectors (iii) pricing and
taxation distortions were to be eliminated and (iv) the public sector
institutions responsible for oversights of the sectors were to be restructured.
In addition, in the road transport sector the program included (v) measures to
improve highway safety and (vi) measures for monitoring compliance by
trucks with air pollution standards. Under the TAL, which is still being
implemented, technical assistance was to be provided to strengthen the public
sector agency responsible for the formulations of telecommunications policy
and for sector regulation.
Project Design and Organization
12.   Under a series of Bank supported sector adjustment operations, the
GoM had already moved far in the implementation of its program of
adjustment designed to reduce the involvement of the public sector in
activities which can be conducted more efficiently by private enterprises and
to provide a liberalized legal and institutional framework which promotes
private investment and competition. The reforms already implemented and
supported by the Bank in the trade regime, financial and industrial sectors
and the program of divestiture of public enterprises reflected these objectives.
The Road Transport and Telecommunication Sector Loan was designed to
complement and reinforce these adjustment efforts by extending them to two
4.    The specific objectives of the loan are: (a) to assist SCT to develop its capability to
regulate telecommunications services and networks, (b) to improve SCT's administrative and
technical capability for the management of the radio spectrum, and (c) to assist TELECOMM
in developing its business activities.



6
sectors of strategic importance -- road transport and telecommunications.
Elimination of constraints to entry and of price controls in trucking had
already taken place and deregulation of the automotive industry was ahead of
the agreed schedule, both with support under the Industrial Sector Policy
Loan (Ln 3087-ME). In the case of telecommunications, the Bank played an
important role in helping to shape the Government program, which went far
beyond what had been expected only one year hence. The privatization of
TELMEX, one of the largest parastatals in Latin America, and the opening
up of the telecommunications market to private (including foreign) investment
were unprecedented steps in Mexico. These measures, and the additional
actions proposed under the project, would make transportation and
telecommunications services much more efficient.
13.   These efficiency gains in the two vital sectors warranted the Bank's
assistance to the Govemment's decision to extend its adjustment efforts to
transportation and telecommunications. Furthermore, the depth and
comprehensiveness of the Mexico's adjustment efforts to help restore growth,
at that time limited by a balance of payments constraint (access to external
financial markets was still very constrained), justified a significant level of
adjustment lending and provided the basis for having the proposed operation
as a sector adjustment loan.
14.    As a substantial number of actions in the Govemment's program for
sector reform, particularly in the transportation area, had already been taken
by the time of Board presentation, the first tranche of the loan of US$190
million was available upon loan effectiveness, which only required that the
borrower, Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos (BANOBRAS),
enter into a contractual arrangement with Government for relending of the
proceeds of the loan. Second tranche release was contingent upon
satisfactory assessment of the medium term macroeconomic framework and
the satisfactory implementation of nine specific actions focused on
implementing the modernization program for the telecommunications sector
and complementing the road transport deregulation program. Some of these
measures had been identified by the Bank through its previous involvement in
the highway and railway areas, and were supported by specific sector studies
carried out in the mid-eighties. A two-volume study of high quality, which
brought together and analyzed the results of field work and studies on the
major issues in road tranport and telecommunication, was completed in
March, 1990, and provided a major input into project preparation.
The Telecommunications Program
15.   TELMEX, a publicly owned company and sole supplier of telephones
services, experienced sluggish growth (5 to 6% per year) during most of the
eighties. Even though there was a large unmet demand for lines, the ability
of the company to raise financing was seriously impeded by the expenditure
constraints associated with tight fiscal policy. Also, the service was of poor
quality, unreliable and congested and productivity was low. In addition,
major distortions existed in the tariff structure under which prices for



7
international calls and domestic long distance were much above costs (and
international standards) while connection rates and local calls were heavily
cross-subsidized.
16.   A clear conceptual foundation of the telecommunications component
resulted from a Sector Policy Paper issued by Government in September,
1989. It presented a diagnosis, objectives and a set of comprehensive actions
to be taken in the telecommunications area. For the purposes of
modernization and expansion of services the most critical decision was the
privatization of TELMEX. This decision was consistent with actions taken in
other sectors of the economy and it was expected to provide a significant
amount of revenue from the sale of government owned shares. In addition,
and with a view to further strengthen efficiency, the roles of the State and the
private sector were redefined by allocating to the Undersecretary of
Communications and Technology Development, all responsibilities
concerning regulations, licensing, norms and certain planning activities, while
the private sector would develop and operate the system itself. In this scheme
all operational services then under SCT and Telegrafos Nacionales (satellite
communications, federal microwave network, telematic, telegraph and other
services) were to be transferred to a newly created public entity,
TELECOMM. The program also considered price restructuring, including a
revised tax structure for TELMEX, and the establishment of a regulatory
framework, through a new set of regulations (Reglamento), to promote
competition in all areas where possible.
17.   Administrative control of TELMEX was transferred from SCT to the
unit in SHCP where all privatization efforts were centralized, and a new
manager was named to assure the implementation of policies consistent with
privatization. In January, 1990, a new tariff and tax scheme was
implemented, a concession contract was under preparation and an agent bank,
Banco Internacional, was hired to prepare a sale prospectus and value the
firm. At the time of loan approval (May 1990), substantial progress had
been made towards final design of all major pieces of the institutional
reform. Thus the Policy Matrix (Annex II) negotiated to support the loan
reflected the interest of the Bank in satisfactory completion and
implementation of these reforms.
The Transportation Program
18.  In Mexico about two-thirds of total cargo is transported through
public trucking. Up to July, 1989, this industry was heavily regulated,
involving entry restrictions to operate on federal highways coupled with
strong restrictions for moving cargo between established transport corridors;
a limited number of freight centers with control over cargo assignments; a
semipublic company, with the monopoly of container handling; and limited
concessions for the handling of cargo movements at railroad stations and
customs facilities. A variety of regulations on both the U.S. and Mexico
sides impeded efficient cargo handling at the border. Lastly, "official" tariffs
were applied to all cargo movements.



8
19.   The apparent rationale for such a regulated system was that open
competition might: (i) disrupt economic activity through probable high price
variability and uncertain service availability, especially to less accessible
regions of the country, and (ii) lead to cost cutting practices that might result
in increases of accidents and pollution (usage of older trucks, less
maintenance, etc.). However, contrary to the expected benefits of a
regulated system, a strongly uncompetitive and distorted price system led to
costly welfare losses due to inefficiency. Entry barriers were easily
transformed into opportunities for the formation of rents and neglect of client
demands. Inadequate tariff levels led to misallocation of resources, as price
signals were improperly related to costs. Also, the Government had to
maintain a sizable bureaucracy to enforce and administer the system. In all,
it has been estimated that welfare losses might have amounted to about 1/2%
of GNP.
20.   In view of the fundamental redefinition of the role of the State and the
private sector in all areas of the economy, the relatively recent experience of
trucking deregulation in the U.S. and other countries, and strong Bank
interest in creating awareness of these issues and in supporting a program of
reforms, the Mexican authorities issued a completely new Reglamento for
federal road freight transportation in July, 1989. This Reglamento,
complemented with further measures taken in early 1990, meant in fact the
complete ending of regulation of trucking in Mexico and gave way to total
open competition.5 Concessions to operate were transformed into simple
permits, route assignments were eliminated, the use of freight centers was no
longer compulsory, the handling of containers was opened to other firms and
most importantly, the system of official tariffs was totally eliminated in
January, 1990.6 Also, further measures to correct inadequate insurance
regulations regarding cargo were announced.
21.   An additional important measure taken in January, 1990, was the
elimination of tax exemptions for truck operators, and the transportation
sector started paying income tax, value added tax, tax on assets and vehicle
ownership tax. Additional tax revenues were estimated to be in the order of
US$173 million annually from just the first two sources. These reforms put
the road transportation sector at the same tax level as all other commercial
activities in Mexico thus avoiding distortion and eliminating a commonly
used tax shelter.
5.     These measures were related to Government's policies to improve the regulatory
environment for the Mexican industrial sector including services to industry. Under the
Industrial Sector Policy Loan (Ln 3087-ME, approved by the Board on June, 1989) support
was given to complete a comprehensive study of the regulatory environment for trucking
services to provide the basis for preparing an action program for reform. The measures
actually adopted went much beyond this commitment moving rapidly to a broad liberalization
of trucking activities.
6.     Additional measures were also taken to deregulate passenger and tourist transport.



9
22.   In line with these developments, SCT found it necessary to proceed
with an internal reorganization. In 1989, about 2,500 employees were
involved in regulatory activities. Under the new Reglamento many of these
functions were no longer needed. All units formerly involved in issuing
permits and concessions and setting tariffs were greatly reduced, while at the
same time monitoring activities were upgraded. In mid-1990, an evaluation
was still under progress to assess the workload and implement further
changes.
23.   The purpose of these reforms was to allow increases in efficiency
through the promotion of competition. It was expected that 'new" entrants
would force existing companies into rationalizing and improving services, to
align prices to costs, to identify and exploit various niches for specialized
services, and in general to significantly reduce the overall social cost of
moving cargo between the different points within Mexico and abroad.
24.   The conceptual underpinnings of this project rested on the
identification and implementation of measures necessary to complement the
deregulation process with adequate policies to internalize some external
effects associated with freight transportation (accidents and pollution), to
properly price and invest in public road infrastructure (cost recovery,
adequate road maintenance and load limits), and to rationalize the use of
alternative transportation modes (cost recovery in railroads). In an
unregulated environment it is important that private prices reflect social
costs, therefore efforts must be made so that truck operators, through proper
pricing or regulations, internalize some of the external costs associated with
their activities. In large part, these efforts involve measures to improve
safety on the roads and the setting of standards and monitoring compliance
regarding pollution emissions. It is also necessary for efficiency that proper
pricing policies be implemented regarding road usage, as a low level of road
usage will tend to result in higher than optimal road utilization. Studies done
by the Bank in 1986 indicated that trucks were paying, through yearly
ownership taxes, fuel taxes and tolls, less than the effective damage they
caused on roads. Similarly, data on railroad rates indicated that for many
important products tariffs were not enough to cover long-run variable costs.
On both accounts some distortions were present affecting the optimal
allocation of cargo between both modes.
25.   A final issue of importance dealt with the evident lack of adequate
maintenance levels for highways and the related problem of axle weight
regulations and controls. Poor road maintenance, aggravated by heavy
trucks, increases substantially vehicle operations costs. In an unregulated
environment, with expected strong competitive pressures it is important to
correct for these conditions. Measures to cover all these areas were agreed
to be taken during 1990 and 1991 and constituted the basis for the action
program summarized in the Policy Matrix. (Annex 2)



10
Project Implementation and Major Results
The Telecommunications Program
26.    Privatization of TELMEX. The comerstone of the reform process
in the telecommunications sector was the privatization of TELMEX. In terms
of loan conditionality, the major policy action supporting the
telecommunications part of the operation was the compliance with
satisfactory progress towards sale of a controlling interest in TELMEX,
including receipt of bids and award decision by Govemment as a condition
for second tranche release.
27.   From June through December 1990, a series of actions were taken
with the result that by year end TELMEX had been effectively privatized.
The main actions were: the modification of the TELMEX capital structure,
which by creating a number of non-voting shares ("L" shares) reduced the
ownership participation needed for control to 40% of the total; the
publication of a revised franchise for TELMEX; the invitation and pre-
qualification of firms for bids; and the actual reception, evaluation and
announcement of the winning bidder, a group of Mexicans headed by the
Grupo Carso (51 % share) and Southwestern Bell and France Cable et Radio
(24.5 % each). The sale price was US$1.76 billion (including payment for
certain options) for a package of 2,163 million shares (all of the voting
shares in the hands of the govemment) representing 20.4% of the total
outstanding shares. The sale contract was signed on December 20, 1990.
Simultaneously, a package of 467 million shares (4.4% of the total stock)
was sold to the workers union for US$325 million. The divestiture process
has continued as planned, with successive releases geared to maximize total
revenues, as the price of the shares increased substantially. In September,
1991, the owners of TELMEX exercised an option to buy an additional 541
million (non-voting) shares. Further public offerings by the Govemment
were made in May and June of 1991 and in May, 1992. Overall receipts of
all combined sales have reached over US$6.3 billion. To date the
Government owns about 4.8% of TELMEX.
28.   TELMEX performance has fallen well within the privatization
objectives (Annex 3). Overall investment levels have reached US$2.2 -
US$2.5 billion annually.7 Lines in service have grown above the target of
12% in 1991 and 1992. Service quality indexes have shown significant
improvement. Productivity is reported to have increased about 24.5% in
1991. Coupled with the important restructuring of sector taxes and tariffs
since 1990 (which has notably reduced cross subsidization), company profits
have reached the level of US$2,600 million in each of the two years under
private ownership. Profit rates were 28.7% in 1991 and 25.7% in 1992.
7.    US$2.25 billion in 1991; US$2.4 billion in 1992; US$2.4 - 2.5 billion planned for
1993.



11
29.    The Bank concern about the handling of the sale of TELMEX being
the major risk in this operation proved to be unfounded, due basically to the
high quality expertise and seriousness provided by the Mexican team that
managed the operation. The privatization process itself has been widely
praised and has been the subject of case studies that emphasized some
innovative features and the opportune role of labor negotiations, the transfer
of control to SHCP, the realignment of tariffs, a clear concession contract,
the restructuring of capital, the selling of shares by trenches, etc. The timing
of activities was properly handled, the concession contract itself seems to be
adequate and most objectives for privatization have been met.8
30.    The regulatory framework. The requirement of second tranche
release to enact satisfactory regulations governing the licensing of
telecommunications networks and services was adequately satisfied through
the publication in the Diario Oficial on October 29, 1990 of the "Reglamento
de Telecomunicaciones".
31.    The Bank reviewed the hiring of consultants and commented on early
drafts of the document. An expert analysis confirmed the general adequacy
of the Reglamento. However, two major potential weaknesses were cited.
One is that no procedures were established for the automatic granting of
concessions, i.e. SCI has a totally discretionary role in accepting or not a
request for a concession. Thus, no clear commitment for future strengthening
of competition is embedded in the Reglamento. A second is that tariff
regulation (efficiency pricing rules) is extremely complex, and will impose a
heavy burden on SCT. In addition, as ScT remains the weakest link in the
system, the largest risk at this point is that regulatory decisions get delayed
for such a long period that opportunities for efficient investment are lost, or
8.     Tandon, Panjak: Mexico. Background. TELMEX. AEROMEXICO. MEXICANA.
World Bank Conference on the 'Welfare Consequences of Selling Public Enterprises. Case
studies from Chile, Malaysia, Mexico and the U.K.'. June 11-12, 1992. Washington, D.C.
The author suggests a remaining area of concem based on the perception that the
combination of tariff, tax and the productivity adjustment factor in the price cap formula
might have been too generous, as indicated by the level of profits and return on capital that
is being obtained by TELMEX. The actual large rise in productivity was not predicted. In
addition traffic has continued to grow at rapid rates, in spite of the significant tariff
increases. In view of this, the analyst suggests that the process has represented a massive loss
of consumer surplus in favor of all other parties. This perception, coupled with the relatively
slow improvement in satisfying unmet demands and service quality, may continue to generate
disappointment with the privatization process, a risk expressed at the time of project
appraisal.
Tandon's conclusions have been severely criticized from within the Bank. Favorable
tax treatment is contingent upon reinvestment of profits, thus addressing the concern about
the pace of expansion and excessive profits. Also, some basic assumptions regarding the
"without project' situation are not sustainable, particularly concerning the ability of
TELMEX to grow under the former environment. In this setting, most of the calculations are
questionable. However, the study correctly supports the overall perception that benefits to
consumers have not been as large yet as had been anticipated, while rates have gone up
significantly.



12
that current participants may unduly profit from the inadequacy of the status
quo.
32.   Current regulatory issues involve the conflict of interconnection of
TELMEX with the independent cellular phone services. Although SCT
already settled the terms of the payments to be made, cellular companies are
insisting that the decision be reviewed. Further problematic areas have
evolved in relation to the satellite system where TELMEX is requesting
access to alternative systems to reduce costs. A critical upcoming concern is
the expected opening of the long distance national and international service to
new entrants in mid-1996 or early 1997. Existing cellular firms and many
foreign companies are interested in penetrating this market. The Government
has not defined publicly its intention or prepared a calendar to proceed with
the granting of this concession. The definitive opening of this segment for
competition would be the only guarantee for the reform to be consistent with
efficiency objectives.
33.    Strengthening the regulatory role of SCT. For the purpose of
developing regulatory capabilities, given the new institutional context, a
condition of second tranche release was that consultants be engaged to
strengthen SCT's regulatory capacity in the telecommunications sector and
that a satisfactory Action Plan to strengthen SCT's regulatory capacity in the
sector be furnished. To support this development, a parallel TAL was
approved. As the Action Plan was approved only in April, 1991, it was one
of the factors which contributed to the length of time required to comply with
the conditions of second tranche release.9
34.   In accordance with the Action Plan, the institutional reorganization of
the Department of Communications and Technology Development of SCT
was implemented in April, 1992. However, more importantly, although
according to the estimates presented in the Action Plan, some 50 additional
midlevel management positions were needed to cover the requirements of the
new regulatory environment, the recommendation was not carried out. The
personnel situation is essentially the same as that of 1991. The main
constraint faced by SCT regarding personnel originates in the established
policies applicable throughout the public sector in Mexico, which focus on
retrenchment of personnel and a freeze of mid-level management
positions.'" No proposals were under discussion to deal with this problem
within SCT. In addition, many weaknesses were reported in the development
of some 13 systems, particularly for verification of TELMEX's quality
9.     Along with the requirement on the federal highway maintenance budget. Second
tranche release had been anticipated for sometime closely following November 15, 1990, but
was actually approved in May 1991.
10.    A Modernization Unit exists in the office of the Chief Administrator in SCr to deal
with all reorgarnization schemes. According to this unit, since the late eighties some 109 -
15% of mnid-level management positions have been reduced in SCT.



13
indexes ", while limited or no advance is reported regarding tariff and costs
studies, system of accounts, prospective technological and demand
developments, and the evaluation of fundamental plans.'2 By the end of
1992, only limited progress had been achieved regarding the parallel
Technical Assistance Loan approved to support SCT.
35.   Although second tranche release criteria were met, real progress in
developing SCT regulatory capacity has been slow. In looking back at
project files it is evident that there was no clear consensus on the part of the
Mexican authorities on the need for strengthening this regulatory capacity.
Fears were expressed that a strong SCT might conspire against the adequate
development of the private sector. The Bank might have taken a stronger
stance regarding this issue, but given the overriding importance of a
successful TELMEX sale, and the drafting of the regulations, at that time, in
1990, it did not seem appropriate to delay the loan.
36.   The Bank has expressed concern that further lagging of the
strengthening of SCT might become a problem, in view of the expected
regulatory issues that will appear in the next few years. In essence the risks
perceived at loan appraisal have not been fully put to rest. Actions taken to
provide SCr with technical support to develop its new activities, including
the Telecommunications Technical Assistance Loan, although well conceived,
have been only partially fruitful as they faced lack of counterpart personnel
and a stronger political support. In addition, changes in key officials and
heavier workloads seem to have altered priorities regarding the actions
agreed to be necessary.
37.    For future operations, the main recommendation is to strengthen the
identification and proposals for altematives regarding the institutional
arrangements for a regulatory entity like SCT's DGPNC. It has been
suggested that to solve the administrative inflexibilities (salaries, hiring, etc.)
caused by operating within a ministry type of organization, this regulatory
role should be moved to a separate superintendency type of institution. This
or other formulas, e.g. contracting external auditors to verify TELMEX's
compliance, could be more fully explored in the future.
38.   Business Plan of TELECOMM. Under the modernization program,
in November, 1989, all operational activities under SCT (the federal
microwave system and Morelos satellite system) were transferred to
TELENALES (then responsible for the telegraph system) and a new state
11.   It is unclear what precise procedures have been established to deal with the
verification of TELMEX agreements on expansion and quality targets. SCT seems to rely
mostly on TELMEX own reports, although it has occasionally conducted sampling studies to
measure some quality of service parameters.
12.    The former Director General of DGPNC left SCT in February of 1992. Since then,
priorities regarding the development of the Action Plan seem to have changed. Also there are
indications that the workload of DGPNC has increased considerably, straining the available
human resources.



14
company called TELECOMM was created. Under the project, the
presentation of a satisfactory business plan (including financial and
investment programs through 1994) for TELECOMM was agreed to provide
a clear definition of the role this new entity would play in the system.
39.   This criterium was met in April of 1991, after the decision made by
the Government to reform TELECOMM's functions by eliminating, in
October, 1990, its activities related to terrestrial long distance operations. In
December, 1990, the federal microwave network was sold to TELMEX.13
This decision also implied that TELECOMM could not participate in the
development of a fiber optic long distance network, as intended. Evidently
such policy implied a relatively diminished role of this entity by limiting its
business to the operation and expansion of the satellite system and telegraph
networks.
40.   Although TELECOMM  is in the process of constructing two new
satellites (Solidaridad I and II) to be put in space by early 1994, there are
renewed pressures from private operators (TELMEX, cellular companies and
others) for further redefinition of State and private roles relative to the
satellite system. This is an area where further opportunities for competition
exist, particularly with regards to the provision of public long distance
service, both national and international. To face this challenge and develop
new markets TELECOMM itself is limited by budget and operational
constraints that are typical of decentralized agencies in the public sector. In
this setting it is difficult to foresee TELECOMM as a major player in the
satellite system in the future.
The Transportation Program
41.    The effects of deregulation. In the tranprt sector the central
objective was deregulation, which involved removing entry restrictions,
eliminating discretionary freight allocations, allowing freight rates to be
market determined and breaking up the MULTIMODAL transport monopoly.
There is evidence that transport deregulation is having a major positive
impact in Mexico. Even though data are weak (Annex 4), all aspects of
concern at the time of loan approval, i.e. entry, tariffs, service, etc. have
been positively affected, in line with expectations of the impact that
competition would have in this market. Government commitment and the
speed of implementation of the reforms were positive factors in the prompt
response of all parties involved. The early (July 6, 1989) agreement with
truckers' associations was an important element in the speedy implementation
of the reforms.
13.    The apparent rationale for this sale was that TELMEX would have a less
competitive environment to operate its long distance services. In fact TELMEX was itself a
heavy user of the microwave network. Additionally SHCP had indicated that no fiscal
resources would be available for the much needed upgrading of this network.



15
42.   The weakest point of the reform program remains the lack of
sufficient strengthening of SCT to assume its new role. This has delayed the
development of some important tasks specified in SCT's Action Plan on
which little or no progress has been reported. These include tariff and cost
studies and a system of accounts. Furthermore, as some pressure groups
intensify their opposition to the reforms, a strong SCT would be important to
ensure no reversal in policies. A more forward looking project design might
have focused more carefully on identifying and developing these new
capabilities. Basically, the new deregulated environment has given SCT an
important role in the development of policies, programs and norms regarding
the transport sector. For these purposes new skills are needed in technical
and professional areas and they have not been available. Examples of the
new roles that have been assumed and which need to be developed and
strengthened are: developing norms for transportation of hazardous materials,
hiring and supervision of policy and sector studies, and updating safety
norms in roads. Personnel policy within the public sector in Mexico and in
SCT has limited the ability of the Road Transport Directorate to hire
appropriate personnel. Even today a large number of government officials
who used to be responsible for issuing permits remain in place, in spite of
the fact that this function has been greatly simplified and transferred to
regional centers. At the same time, budget resources and positions have been
constrained at the technical and professional levels. No doubt this should be
an area of continuing Bank concern and of future support and strengthening.
The development of appropriate norms and policies in many areas are a must
for the development of an efficient transportation market.
43.    Highway safety. Road accidents account for about 3 % of all deaths
in Mexico, and this rate compares poorly with countries with a much higher
rate of motorization and traffic'4. About one-quarter of the total number of
road accidents take place in the Federal Highway Network. These amounted
to about 67,000 in 1992, with casualties reaching about 110,000 persons, of
whom 5,500 were killed and 37,000 injured. Direct damages were estimated
at US$200 million in 1992. From 1988 to 1991, the yearly growth rate of
accidents was 6.8%. In 1992 this trend was reversed as accidents declined by
0.5%.
44.   To address a number of issues identified by the Bank regarding the
sources of the problems, the Mexican Government agreed that a group would
be set up"5 to develop an action plan and to strengthen coordination on
safety issues. This group was formed in April, 1990, prior to Board approval
of the loan. In addition, a study was started in 1990 on the subject of vehicle
size and weight limits. For second tranche release it was agreed to complete
the first phase and initiate second and third phases (policy recommendations)
of the study and to present a satisfactory action plan to improve road safety.
14.   World Bank. Mexico. Road Transport and Telecommunications Sector Adjustment
Project. Road Transport Technical Report. Volume I. March 5, 1990.
15.   By SCT's General Directorate for Preventive Medicine (DGMPT).



16
45.   Regarding the size and weight study, most of the first phase
(statistical data collection) was concluded, although after some delay. The
studies have shown so far that about 25 - 30% of trucks are overloaded,
according to current norms. The second and third phases regarding policy
options and implementation measures were never adequately completed. SCT
suggested that mainly problems with timely availability of resources to
acquire measurement equipment (weighing scales) were the main causes for
the poor results of the study. Notwithstanding this problem, SCT has drafted
a new Reglamento on weight limits which is currently being reviewed with
users and transportation organizations before approval at the Government
level.
46.   The development of policy actions under the Action Plan for Road
Safety presented in September, 1990, 16 most of which were effectively
carried out, provided a basis to raise the level of discussion about safety
issues within the road administration. Better coordination of actions and some
indications of improvement in accident indicators have helped in the
advancement of policies and measures regarding road safety. This was the
primary purpose for the Bank's continuous dialogue with the Mexican
government on this issue. Improving road safety is a lengthy process and
SCT is now in an adequate path for further progress. The Action Plan was a
simple grouping of activities put together by adding the individual actions of
all the institutions involved, without priorities, periodic reporting of the status
of actions, and measurement of impacts. A better defined set of objectives
and measures is needed. A proposed new project for the road sector
incorporates a major component for safety improvements"7.
47.    Railway tariffs. Railways account for some 13% of total tons of
cargo transported in Mexico. Its relative importance has been steadily
declining since the mid-eighties, as total cargo transported has been reduced
about 20% between 1985 and 1990. A further 9% decline occurred in 1991.
Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico (FNM), a publicly owned company, has
for the last twenty years been unable to generate enough revenues to meet
even current costs. A study done in the second half of the eighties'8 and
data from FNM indicated that railway tariffs were not adjusted properly to
long run variable costs. For some of the most important products (coal, iron,
cement) average tariffs were 5% to 10% below average costs. As railway
tariffs are regulated, this situation reflected, basically, pricing policies
implemented by SHCP and Secretarfa de Comercio y Fomento Industrial
(SECOFI) to meet guidelines for macroeconomic stabilization.
16.    A brief summary of the proposed actions and their current implementation status is
presented in Annex 5.
17.    Highway Rehabilitation and Traffic Safety Project, expected to be presented to the
Board in fiscal year 1993.
18.    World Bank. Mexico. Transport Pricing Study. Report No. 6580-ME. Projects
Department. Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. February 20, 1987.



17
48.   With the view that proper pricing for railways was an important
complement to road deregulation, it was agreed that the Government would
furnish the Bank the complete study on railway rates and increase FNM rates
for selected commodities, which account for about 70% of cargo revenues,
by no less than 25% (in real terms). The increase was to be effective not
later than January 1, 1991, provided however that rates would not be
increased beyond the level of long run variable costs.
49.   A study contracted by FNM on railway costs and tariffs was finished
in November, 1990, while rates were increased by 23%, in nominal terms, in
July and a further 15% in October, 1990. Available data indicate that the
balance between tariffs and costs reached 97% on average in 1990. (Table 1)
Evidently, this figure was much higher after the October increase. Further
data for 1991 and 1992 indicate, however, that this policy of matching tariffs
with long run costs was not sustained. No further increases in base tariffs
have been authorized since October, 1990. The results of the above policies
were that during 1991, the relative ratio of revenues to costs fell to 87%,
and with a few exceptions, all products were charging below average costs.
The situation worsened further during 1992.
50.   There are indications however that the Bank's overwhelming concern
with correct price setting was misplaced in the context of important structural
changes in demand (due in part to road freight deregulation and the
privatization of client companies) and cost conditions that reflect inefficient
firm size and operation practices. Given these inefficiencies, the simple rule
that prices should cover long run variable costs would not lead to an efficient
resource allocation.
51.   Subsequent to this loan, the Mexican government started to implement
an important modernization program in the railway sector. This program,
covering the 1992 - 1994 period, addresses specifically the issue of
improving marketing and pricing policies, allowing direct contract
negotiations for most cargoes with total liberalization expected by 1994,
which has been a long sought Bank policy goal. Additional issues addressed
are improving operations through revised work rules and rationalization of
the use of locomotives and repair shops; giving priority to track maintenance
and eliminating service in areas with low demand and available alternatives;
rationalizing personnel (so far 18,000 workers have joined a voluntary
retirement program); and, improving of management practices. No doubt this
approach to the railway sector is much more conducive to overall efficiency
in the transportation area.'9
52.   Cost recovery. Updated estimates of road user charges at the time of
project appraisal suggested that, although they had increased substantially
since the mid-eighties due mainly to a large increase in the implicit fuel tax,
trucks still were not paying their full costs of road usage. The deficit,
relative to expected expenditures in 1990, was on the order of US$250
19.   A proposed Railway Restructuring Project is under preparation for FY94.



18
million per year. On this basis, under the project it was agreed that
satisfactory observation of the commitments to significantly improve cost
recovery from trucks would be carried out through an increase of 10% (in
real terms) in the price of diesel fuel. This increase would cover about 57%
of the required shortfall of truck cost recovery.
53.   Mexican authorities complied with the agreement as prices for diesel
were raised 17% at the end of May, 1990, and a further 10% in November
of that year. With these changes, the real price (in dollar terms) was
effectively increased by 21 % during 1990.
54.   The price of diesel has continued to be adjusted above the exchange
rate variations in later years as shown in Graph 1. When compared to
domestic inflation, the real price increase has been much lower. Graph 2
shows the evolution of the implicit fuel tax, as measured by the difference
between the border price of diesel and the domestic price. The base value of
the border price is taken as Mex$450 per liter as established for January -
March, 1990, during appraisal. This value is updated in accordance with the
evolution of the price of oil exports by Mexico which is used as the reference
price for the opportunity cost of diesel. The resulting comparison with
domestic prices indicates that during the second semester of 1990, due to the
large increase in international oil prices, there was an effective subsidy to
diesel users. However, as the international price of oil has declined since
1992, the effective tax has been positive and substantially above the level of
Mex$20 estimated in early 1990. In fact, since March, 1991, the tax has
been five to seven times above of what it used to be in real terms. Under
conditions of 1990, the cross subsidy between trucks and automobiles for the
financing of roads still remains although it is significantly smaller. It was
estimated during appraisal that full coverage of costs by trucks would require
a total tax on diesel of Mex$103/lt. Throughout 1991 and 1992 this figure
has been significantly exceeded.
55.   Other user charges have also increased significantly. Ownership taxes
for trucks are reported to be 3 to 5 times higher than those of 1989.
Furthermore revenues from licenses were estimated in 1991 to be some 7
times above 1990. Similarly taxes on new vehicles have contributed to
higher cost recovery. In all, the latest estimates made in 1991 show an
increase in cost recovery from these sources, and from toll roads, of 55%
relative to those of 1990. Total revenues that year reached about US$427
millions.
56.   The proper implementation of a cost recovery policy requires a much
deeper policy design. Analyses addressing questions related to the recovery
of highway costs from users in Mexico were done for the proposed highway
rehabilitation and safety project. The results indicate that: (i) in the
aggregate, road users are contributing at levels sufficient to cover desirable
road maintenance and rehabilitation costs. The real increases in gasoline
prices in recent years have made a major contribution to this; and (ii) heavy
vehicle users are still cross-subsidized by automobile users. Recently, the



19
GoM has made progress in redressing this imbalance through adjusting tolls.
Diesel prices, while increasing substantially, are only now approaching
international levels, and therefore diesel taxes do not yet contribute to road
maintenance cost recovery. This situation, coupled with the increasing
importance of the private road network, warrants a more thorough review of
road financing strategies and instruments. Such a study to be carried out by
SHCP would be supported under the proposed highway rehabilitation and
maintenance project.
57.   Road Maintenance Budget. Fiscal restraints associated with the
requirements of macroeconomic polices implied that resources for the road
sector were substantially reduced throughout the eighties. As total resources
declined a constant proportion between total investments and maintenance
was observed, with maintenance activity averaging some 31 % of the total.
This policy led to a substantial backlog of deferred maintenance and
rehabilitation needs by the end of the eighties. Data available for 1991
confirm that by that time about 60% of the roads in the Federal Highway
System (about 36,000 km.) were rated in poor or very poor condition. At the
time of project appraisal, maintenance needs on the Federal Highway System
were estimated to be about US$400 million annually. Actual expenditures for
the period 1986 to 1989 had reached on average about US$114 million per
year, equivalent to less than 30% of estimated needs.
58.   Given the high social return of expenditures on maintenance and its
impact on vehicle operating costs, particularly those of truckers, the
Government agreed with the Bank to review its priorities on road
expenditures and focus an increasing the share of the budget on this activity.
The Government agreed, during early 1990, to an increase above the
approved budget allocation, of Mex$155 billion for highway maintenance
activities in that year.
59.   Further targets were set, and for second tranche release the
Government agreed to submit a budget proposal for highway maintenance for
1991, with a further increase of Mex$45 billion (in real terms). Of the total
allocation for maintenance activities, at least 40% would be for routine
maintenance. The base figure for this calculation was actually exceeded
during 1990, i.e. the real increase was in fact implemented during 1990.
Therefore, although no additional real increases were granted in 1991, the
real target negotiated for second tranche conditions for that year (Mex$593
billions in 1990 pesos) was met.
60.   Available data indicate that with the further increases in the budget
granted during 1990, total expenditures on maintenance reached Mex$609
billion, representing about two-thirds of total road expenditures. During
1991, this level was maintained in real terms. However, during 1992 the
level of expenditure on maintenance activities apparently fell about 21 %.2"
20.   1992 data provided by SCT. However, they may represent preliminary budget
aLmounts. No definite data have been made available.



20
61.   While the target for the budget for the routine maintenance share in
the total maintenance budget (40%) was met, the large increases in
reconstruction and rehabilitation expenditures since 1990 have meant a lower
priority for routine maintenance. It appears that the share of expenditures for
routine maintenance declined from over 60% in the latter eighties, to 51% in
1990 and 35% - 25% in 1991 and 1992.(Table 3) Even in absolute terms,
during 1991 and 1992 there was a 17% and a 35% real decline, respectively
for each year on these expenditures. The postponement of routine
maintenance usually implies significantly higher repair and rehabilitation
costs in the future. Normally a reduction in the level of expenditures on
routine maintenance is not optimal2".
62.   It is worth noting that SCT has continued to improve its planning
capabilities related to maintenance works n. A study was contracted with
consultants to establish an optimal strategy for road maintenance from which
not only the level of required maintenance will be obtained, but also the
optimal mix between reconstruction, periodic and routine works given
expenditure constraints. Unfortunately, given new data on the condition of
the road network, estimated annual needs for maintenance have increased to
about US$700 million per year to eliminate the existing backlog of highway
rehabilitation, resurfacing and routine maintenance expenditures by the year
2001. Although the budget allocation for maintenance for 1993 of about
US$320 million is 82% of the budget for the highway sector (a 33% increase
over the 1991 maintenance budget), and shows the Government's
commitment to fund maintenance even in a period of macroeconomic
constraints, it still falls significantly short of the estimated amount needed
annually to eliminate the backlog.
63.    Emission controls.  Air pollution is a big problem in Mexico,
particularly in its metropolitan area. A recent Bank study found that some
260,000 trucks operate daily in Mexico City. Many of these are federal
public trucks for which the city is a center for origin or destiny of cargo. It
has been estimated that about 37% of toxicity-weighted pollutant emissions
attributable to the transport sector in Mexico City originates from long-haul
and local trucks. It is likely that trucks also contribute significantly to
pollution in other cities of Mexico.
64.   At the time of appraisal, regulations were drafted requiring trucks and
buses operating on federal highways to be inspected twice per year for air
and noise pollution. In terms of emissions, only a smoke opacity standard for
diesel engines was to be enforced. In the case of gasoline engines additional
21.   It is difficult to draw firm conclusions on this point due to weaknesses in the data.
Conceptually 'periodic maintenance' is a wandering variable in the sense that it is not clear
whether, in any one year, it is included in 'reconstruction and rehabilitation' or 'routine
maintenance'.
22.    The Highway Maintenance and Traffic Safety Project would focus on addressing the
institutional (SCT planning capacity) and financial (measures to improve funding) issues that
are required to improve road conditions.



21
controls were established for carbon monoxide and hydrocarbons. These
regulations were to be issued as a condition for second tranche release.
65.   Mandatory emission inspections were issued in May, 1990. To date,
368 centers for emission inspection have been established throughout the
country. They operate as private concessionaires approved by SCT. In 1992
about 200,000 units were inspected, about half of them in Mexico City.
Further measures have been taken to inspect and control evident polluter
vehicles on the roads. Data from these point checks indicate that the level of
detected non-compliance has declined from 50% in early 1991 to about 10%
- 20% in early 1993.
66.   Further complementary measures have been taken by the Government
which have meant that since 1991 catalytic converters are required for new
cars and light trucks. Also in Mexico City, a low sulfur content diesel was
introduced that significantly reduces particulate and Noxa emissions.3
However, further work is needed in the area of setting and enforcing stricter
standards as required by the standardization rules agreed under NAFTA.
Project Sustainability
67.   The Road Transport and Telecommunications Sector Loan was
designed to support the GoM in the areas of macroeconomic stability,
through the provision of opportune external funding, and in the significant
structural reforms that were being carried out to increase efficiency,
competition and private sector participation in selected infrastructure areas.
Regarding the first objective of the loan, Mexico has successfully emerged
from the critical macroeconomic conditions of the 1980s. This loan, as part
of a broader financial package, contributed significantly to alleviate the
external debt burden, as it provided much needed resources at a time of debt
renegotiation and rescheduling under the auspices of the Brady Plan. Besides
its direct financial effect, the loan package and other measures of fiscal
constraint and careful macroeconomic management, contributed to restore
investor's confidence and capital repatriation. Today inflation indexes
approach the one digit level, while growth is being sustained at a 2% - 4%
level. In spite of a worsening of the trade balance, associated with the trade
liberalization policy and the appreciation of the peso, the capital inflow of the
last four years has allowed Government to maintain an adequate balance of
payments account.
68.   The sustainability of the project in the telecommunications area is
assured by the success of Government in developing a comprehensive
modernization program directed to increasing investment through private
sector participation and promoting efficiency through correct price
regulations and through competition. The cornerstone of the program was the
23.   The Bank's Transport Air Quality Management Project for the Mexico City
Metropolitan Area (Ln 3543-ME, signed on December 18, 1992, for US$219 mnillion
equivalent) supports these measures.



22
privatization of TELMEX. In addition a new Reglamento for the sector was
issued to provide a comprehensive framework for the supply of
communication services. At the same time the public sector institutions were
reorganized clearly separating regulatory and planning functions from
operational responsibilities. This comprehensive integration of all elements
in the design of the reform package is an important contribution to
sustainability of the reforms. Competition and tariff policies are well defined
by clearly establishing the areas subject to competition versus regulation.
And in this latter case, the rules for tariff setting, expansion targets,
interconnection obligations are well established. The TELMEX concession
contract is by itself a significant piece of work. In spite of some weaknesses
due to the complex nature of the telecommunications business, the existence
of an integrated framework for the provision of services is an important
contribution to sector development.
69.   In the road transportation area, policy sustainability is assured by
Government commitment, as proven by the further opening up measures
negotiated under the NAFTA agreement.
70.   Within the context of the transport sector adjustment program,
additional measures geared towards better allocation of resources were
implemented. Regarding safety issues, many important activities in the
Action Plan were effectively developed, and the level of awareness at higher
level management was raised, thus providing a good basis for further
improvements to be undertaken in the proposed Highway Rehabilitation and
Traffic Safety Project. Cost recovery has improved significantly, by the
continuous increase in the real price of diesel and other user charges such as
ownership taxes and license fees. It is probable that trucks contribute
significantly to cover the road expenditures associated with their usage, but
the data collected on cost recovery have not been sufficiently disaggregated to
say that full cost recovery for trucks is happening consistently over time.
Road maintenance expenditures were greatly expanded in 1990 and 1991
relative to earlier years, and contractual conditions were met. These levels of
expenditures however were not sustained during 1992. Routine maintenance
seems to have lagged behind indicating higher priority for investments in
rehabilitation.
71.   Railway rates for all significant products were effectively increased
above long run variable costs during 1989, as agreed with the Bank, but the
policy has not been sustained over time, and currently prices are on average
well below long run variable costs, contributing to a worsening financial
position of FNM. Here, however, the Government implemented a structural
reform of FNM that focuses, rightly, on the issues of downsizing and
rationalization of operations, private sector participation and use of direct
negotiations for contracting cargo, therefore, addressing the deeper company
problems which go well beyond pricing policies.



23
72.   Effective actions were taken and sustained for the control of vehicles
for air pollution, and these policies are supported further in a follow-up Bank
project (Ln 3543-ME).
73.   The weakest link in the sustainability of the process of sector
modernization seems to be SCT. The new environment requires a new set of
skills and views for the proper support, monitoring, issuance of norms, etc.
needed for sector development. Such abilities have not been sufficiently
strengthened as personnel and budgeting restrictions have not allowed it.
Institutional strengthening would continue under the proposed highway
rehabilitation and traffic safety project.
Bank Performance
74.   The Road Transportation and Telecommunications Loan followed a
pattern of sector adjustment loans made to Mexico in the late 1980s and early
1990s in support of policy reforms in critical areas. As Mexican authorities
identified sectors as an area where reforms were needed, the Bank in its on-
going dialogue with the Govemment and its previous involvement in the
transportation sector agreed that this operation become a candidate for a
sector loan. By the time of project identification (mid-1989), the Bank had
already raised some of the pertinent issues in the transportation area, through
its previous and ongoing involvement in the road and railroad sectors and
through the development of specific sector studies. Volume I, "Road
Transport Technical Report", of a two-volume report undertaken during
project preparation, gathered together past data and new information (from
individual consultant reports, field surveys--of truckers and users, state
regulations--and Bank staff reports) to analyze the results concerning trucking
deregulation and complementary actions to enhance sector efficiency,
including taxation, cost recovery, highway maintenance expenditures,
highway safety, cargo insurance, trucking income and value added taxes and
trucking deregulation implications for SCT's organization and future
institutional adjustments.
75.  In the area of telecommunications, previous Bank involvement had
been minimum, but Bank staff quickly made up for the gap.
Volume II of the two-volume report discussed above, "Telecommunications
Sector Technical Report", focussed on major issues in the Government's
sector reform program: privatization, competition, regulation and divestiture
of SCT operations. A series of documents were prepared by the Bank at
various stages of helping the GoM formulate a sector policy and reform
program. Particularly influential was the report "Policy Options for
Telecommunications Industry Structure and Regulation in Mexico",
distributed to selected senior Government and TELMEX officials in October,
1988. The report provided the basis for the initial development of a policy
dialogue on the telecommunications sector. In September, 1989, another
paper, "Discussion Paper on Transitional Arrangements for the
Restructuring of the Mexican Telecommunications Sector", was distributed to
a number of agencies involved in the reforms. This paper highlighted aspects



24
other than privatization of TELMEX, which occupied almost all of the
Government's attention, in particular pricing, development of competition
and regulation, and innovative modalities to attract private resources for
infrastructure development and the need for all these to converge with
privatization. On the basis of this thorough and outstanding work in
transport and telecommunications, the Bank was able to identify and help
prepare a timely sector adjustment program.
76.   The Bank supervised closely the evolution of the various events. Four
supervision missions were sent to review progress throughout the execution
period. These missions were fielded by 2 - 4 Bank staff and were carried out
in August and November of 1990, and February and April of 1991. At least
one visit to Washington D.C. by Mexican officials was made during which
progress in a specific matter (SCT's strengthening Action Plan) was
discussed. There is no doubt that continued Bank involvement contributed
greatly to the successful and expeditious execution of the project.
Borrower Performance
77.   The Government has followed through consistently with its policies of
privatization, price adjustments and deregulation, under this project as well
as under other fast-disbursing structural adjustment loans provided by the
Bank. The overall positive but uneven results of the project in some areas,
summarized above, clearly reflect the varying degree of commitment of the
Government to the specific measures in the agreed policy matrix. This,
however, would not seem to be unusual in the context of an ambitious reform
process, especially when the economic reforms seek to bring about so
dramatic a change in the economy as Mexico's. As the sector reforms gave
rise to personnel issues in the effected agencies, such as SCT, successful
implementation of the Government policies to reduce the size of government
and to maintain tough fiscal constraints were clearly overriding.
Project Relationship
78.   During the preparation of the project and implementation, the
relationship between the Bank and the executing agencies was very
productive. In one sector (transportation) the principal executing agency was
SCT, a well known Bank counterpart institution, whereas for the reforms in
telecommunications, responsibility was mainly in SHCP's newly created
privatization unit. In this latter program, the Bank clearly followed what the
Mexican Government had already under way and provided, through
consultants, some technical advise on specific issues and was able to establish
a high level dialogue on the general nature of the reforms.
79.   In the transportation sector more specific and detailed actions were
possible given the previous Bank involvement in the sector. The relationship
between the Bank and SCT continued to be productive.



25
80.   The Bank had a close collaboration with the IDB which provided
parallel financing for the transport sector reform program. This productive
relationship started during preparation of the project and continued through
the implementation period, with joint supervision missions.
Consulting Services
81.   The performance of consultants used in several aspects of the project
to carry out studies was satisfactory. A TAL was approved concurrently to
support the strengthening of SCT and TELECOMM, but progress has been
slow. A number of conditions, including the lack of qualified SCT staff
delayed the development of the activities to set up all the information,
evaluation and control systems. During 1991, support consultants and a
study for setting the regulatory system for tariffs were contracted. In 1992
progress was limited as no agreement had been reached between SCT and
the Bank on the nature, program and procedure for hiring additional needed
support.
Project Documentation and Data
82.   The President's Report provided a useful framework for both the
Bank and the executing agencies during project implementation. Data
relevant for preparation of the PCR were available.
83.   To verify compliance with eligibility conditions, the Bank requested
that external auditors be hired. Two reports from these auditing procedures
are available indicating total conformity of payment conditions and eligibility
criteria for a large sample of the import requests.
Lessons Learned
84.   The privatization process of TELMEX, by itself, constitutes an
interesting lesson for the privatization of large public sector companies with
monopolistic characteristics and good market potential. As has been noted in
existing studies of this privatization', elements like worker's participation
through share-holding, the restructuring of capital, the selling of shares by
tranches, the use of both the domestic and intemational stock market, a
carefully designed concession contract, the realignment of sector tariffs and
taxes, among others, contributed greatly to the success of the selling
operation. No less important was the handling of the process by a high level
unit linked to SHCP, with accumulated experience from earlier public
enterprise sales.
85.   The preparation for privatization of TELMEX yields an important
lesn. From the operation of TELMEX for two years under private
management, the large potential for investment growth and productivity
24.   See 'References', p. 59. The studies of Tandon (4) and IDB (1) describe in detail
the privatization process and evaluate some of its implications. See also (2) and (6).



26
increases is immediately evident. These have translated quickly into
significant profits. With hindsight, expectations for improvements in profits
were too conservative, and therefore more room was in practice available for
the setting of investment and quality targets, as well as tariff ceilings.
Unforeseen concems associated with still low levels of service (particularly
the waiting period for installation), at the same time as TELMEX is eaming
such profits, appear to be emerging as issues in the development of policies
in the sector. However, the tax regime, under which favorable tax treatment
is contingent upon reinvestment of profits acts as a safeguard. Provisions for
adjustments in the calculation of the price-caps in later years, beyond 1996,
also addresses these issues. (Annex 3)
86.   A lesn to be drawn from the experience gained in this project also
supports the position of promoting free entry for competition in all areas
where possible as this policy helps to develop enterprises that will be the
only certain guarantee for efficient sector development. From the perspective
of competition, the decision of postponing the opening of the long distance
telecommunication services until 1996, even though it might have been the
only practical alternative available, clearly contributes to the entrenchment of
the current operator. With a weak regulatory power, high profits and
opportunities for monopolistic practices may in the end limit future
competition. In contrast, the licensing of concessions to private operators for
cellular services, in competition with TELMEX, will contribute to future real
competition. These companies are now in a stage of organization geared
towards expanding their role into the long distance service.
87.   Another important lesn concems the difficulties of transforming a
public sector agency which has lost previous key functions in the
privatization process into a regulatory body. Sustainability of the regulatory
policies is potentially at risk due to the slow progress on institutional
reorganization and strengthening of the public sector entities related to the
telecommunications modernization program. A regulatory body within a
ministry, like DGPNC in SCT, is difficult to strengthen from within the
normal public sector apparatus, as restrictions on personnel shedding and
hiring and salaries slow the pace of the proper development of these
institutions. Development of new skills is a long term process and
restrictions on the required personnel changeover sets up greater barriers to
progress. In view of these constraints, the Bank efforts towards the
provision of technical and informational expertise for the formation of this
regulatory body, through a specific assistance project, has thus far had
limited results. The main recommendation for future operations is to
strengthen the identification and proposals for alternatives regarding the
institutional arrangements for a regulatory entity like SCT's DGPNC. To
solve the administrative inflexibilities (salaries, hiring, etc.) caused by
operating within a ministry-type of organization, this regulatory role might be
moved to a separate superintendency-type of institution. This or other
formulas (e.g. contracting extemal auditors to verify TELMEX's compliance)
could be more fully explored by the Bank.



27
88.   In the road transportation area the Mexican experience confirms so far
the feasibility and effectiveness of such a massive and quick deregulation
process. Major deregulation measures were implemented during 1989 and
early 1990. These measures have contributed effectively to the ease of entry,
diversity of services and some cost and price reductions for road freight
transportation. The analysis shows so far that the market has reacted in the
direction predicted by economic theory and that significant improvements in
efficiency are taking place. Concems with excessive instability of prices or
services have proven unfounded. Also important adjustments of enterprises
are occurring with the significant appearance of one-man truck operations.
89.   There is, however, a lesn to be leamed concerning the risk of
pressures to reverse some of the measures taken, since in the deregulation
process it is unavoidable that some agents who had enjoyed earlier privileges
under protected markets will stand to lose. The emergence of significant
opposition by large trucking companies who represent former protected
interests and have been negatively affected by deregulation, is still an issue
that is present after three and a half years from the first deregulation
measures. While it does not seem feasible for the Bank to introduce long-
term measures in policy-based projects on such issues, guidance and advice
based on international experience may be offered.



28
TABLE 1
RATIO OF INCOME TO VARIABLE COSTS BY MAIN PRODUCTS
MAIN PRODUCTS             1990      1991     1992
Soybeans                   1,01     1,11      1,01
Maize                      0,85     0,79     0,74
Sorghum                    0,90     0,93     0,83
Wheat                      1,07     1,06      0,96
Charcoal                   1,00     0,98     0,87
Iron Ore                   0,85     0,84     0,75
Oil Fuel                   1,46     1,37      1,22
Limestone                  0,91     0,89     0,75
Sugar                      0,94     0,97     0,84
Cement                     0,80     0,87     0,78
Fertilizers                1,25     1,27      1,14
Vehicle Assembly Parts     1,29     1,14      0,98
Paper and Cellulose        0,90     0,99     0,82
Industrial Chemicals       1,77     1,63      1,51
Other Industrial Products  0,71     0,33      0,55
-TOTAL                0,97     0,87      0,86
AVG. INCOME PER TON    57038    56919    50882
Growth (%)                          -0.2%   -10.6%
AVG. COST PER TON        58534    65171    58880
Growth (%)                          11.3%    -9.7%
Source: Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico
Avg. Income and cost per ton. in dec. 1992 prices



29
TABLE 2
EVOLUTION OF DIESEL PRICE AND OF UNIT DIESEL TAX
PRICE OF DIESEL ( ex$/f )    ESTIMATED BORDER PRICE                  ESTIMATED UNIT TAX
NOMINAL REAL IPC REAL US$  CRUDE EXPORT PRICE (c) BORDER (d)  NOMINA REAL IPC 12mo. FM
(a)      (b)   (US$1barrel)     INDEX        (Mex$/ft.)   (Mex$/t)  (Mex$/ft)    (e)
1190      470       489       480         16,65        116,9                  =         =         =
2/90      470       478       475         15,78        110,8
3190      470       470       470         14,24        100,0          450        20        20       -55
4/90      470       463       466         12,40         87,1          396        74        73       -47
5/90      480       465       471         12,08         84,8          389       91         88       -46
6/90      550       521       534         11,27         79,1          366       184       174       -46
7/90      550       512       532         14,49        101,8          474        76        71       -53
8/90      550       503       530         23,07        162,0          757      -207     -189        -53
9/90      550       496       528         29,11        204,4          959      -409      -369       -32
10/90      550       489       523         28,43        199,6          945      -395      -351         3
11190      585       507       553         26,11        183,4          872      -287      -249        34
12/90      605       508       570         21,62        151,8          725      -120      -101        63
1/91      605       495       567         16,45        115,5          554        51        41        86
2/91 1    605       487       565         13,20         92,7          446       159       128        97
3/91      605       480       563         13,43         94,3          456       149       118       101
4/91      605       475       560         14,55        102,2          496       109        85       105
5/91      605       470       558         14,31        100,5          490       115        89       109
6/91      605       466       556         14,06         98,7          483       122        94       111
7/91      605       461       554         14,98        105,2          517        88        67       111
8/91      605       458       553         14,94        1 04,9         517        88        67       114
9/91      605       454       549         15,63        109,8          544        61        46       119
10/91      605       449       547         16,48        115,7          576        29        21       126
11/91      647       468       587         14,32        100,6          499       148       107       133
12191      665       470       602         12,26         86,1          428       237       167       133
1/92      675       469       612         12,24         86,0          427       248       172       128
2/92      685       470       622         12,37         86,9          430       255       175
3/92      695       472       631         12,93         90,8          450       245       166
4/92      705       475       636         14,32        100,6          501       204       137
5/92      715       478       642         15,69        110,2          552       163       109
6192      725       482       646         16,48        115,7          584       141        93
7/92      735       485       657         16,27        114,3          575       160       106
8/92      745       489       674         15,86        111,4          554       191       125
9192      755       491       675         15,45        108,5          546       209       136
10/92      685       442       610         15,03        105,6          534       151        98
11/92      685       439       612         14,62        102,7          517       168       107
12/92      685       433       611         14,21         99,8          503       182       115
Sources. Diesel prices, SCT Direccion de Programas y Evaluacion.
Crude Oil Prices Estadisticas Basicas de Comercio Exterior. Last quarter of 1992 projected.
Notes:   (a): Deflated to March 1990 by domestic price index
(b) Deflated to March 1990 by US$ exchange rate
(c). Average monthty export pnce for crude oil
(d): Estimated by apptying to base price of March of 1990, index of crude oil price adjusted by exchange rate.
(e): 12 month forward moving average



30
TABLE 3
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS: ROAD MAINTENANCE EXPENDITURES
(Billions of Current Mex$)
ITEM                         1986        1987        1988        1989        1990         1991        1992
Planning                    5.984       7.412       4.152        6.500       5.500      17.094      21.270
Reconstr. & Rehab.         12.802      10.472      71.242      95.110   290.885   462.080    481.407
Routine Maintenance    58.174    132.747   153.724    172.903   312.292   258.968    168.210
|TOTAL         76.960    1 50.631    229.1188   274.513   608.677   738.142   671.255
% Routine Maintenance a/  75.6%           88.1%       67,1%       63.0%       51.3%        35.1%      25.1%
(Billions of 1990 Mex$)
ITEM                         1986        1987        1988        1989         1990        1991        1992
Planning                  45.156       24.127       6.311        8.232       5.500      13.936      15.012
Reconstr. & Rehab.         96.606      34.087   108.282   120.459   290.885   376.709    339.777
Routine Maintenance  438.990   432.101    233.649   218.985   312.292   211.123    118.723
I TOTAL       580.752   490.315   348.242   347.676   608.677   601.768    473.772
Notes:         1986 - 1990 data are actual expenditures. 1991 and 1992 expenditures
are preliminary data.
a/     Routine Maintenance is a recurrent expenditure and refers to local repair of roadway and pavement;
grading of shoulders; regular maintenance of road drainage, side slopes, verges, traffic control devices,
and furniture; roadside cleaning, dust and vegetation control, and maintaining rest areas and safety
appurtenances. Preservation improvements, which are capital expenditures, include: (i) resurfacing,
i.e. the placing of one or more new asphalt overlays on an existing paved road to preserve its structural
integrity and ride quality. Resurfacing is often called periodic maintenance; and (ii) rehabilitation
which refers to selective repair, strengthening, and shape correction of pavement or roadway (including
minor drainage and shoulder improvements) to restore structural strength and ride quality.
Expenditures for preservation improvements and for routine maintenance are frequently mistakenly
classified in the SCT data on Federal Highways Road Maintenance Expenditures, thus making it
difficult to come to firm conclusions on the level of budget expenditures on routine maintenance only.



31
Graph 1
EVOLUTION OF PRICE OF DIESEL
(Base March 1990)
800-
750-
700-
650- _--/                          
. s00-                                       No     so
500-
450- -
400-
1/90      5/90 0    9/90'      1/91      5/91       9/91      1/92       5/92   '  9/921
3/90      7/90      11/90      3/91      7/91      11/91      3/92       7/92      11/92
-U-- Nominal   i  Real IPC  -1-  Real US$  I



32
Graph 2
EVOLUTION OF UNIT TAX OF DIESEL
(Base March 1990)
1000-
0
6 00-          A 
40- X a 
-200-              t      /     -
3/90      7/90       11/90  1 13/911       7/91   '  11/91    '3/92 .       7/92   '  11/92
5/90      9/90       1/91       5/91       9/91       1/92       5/92       9/92
-U- Domestic Price -    Border Price   -l Real Unit Tax



33
Unofficial Translation
MEXICO
ROAD TRANSPORT AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3207-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS AND TRANSPORT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT FOR THE ROAD AND TELECOM-
MUNICATIONS SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT, LOANS 3207-ME AND
594/OC-ME, SIGNED BETWEEN THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AND THE
WORLD BANK AND THE INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
April 1993



34
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A.   INTRODUCTION
B.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND OBJECTIVES
C.    COMMITMENT FULFILLMENT
D.   DISBURSEMENTS
E.    LESSONS LEARNED
F.    CONCLUSIONS AND COMMENTS
G.    ANNEXES: *
G. 1  Modernization of Federal Road Transport and Perspectives
G.2   Accident Statistics for 1989-1992
G.3   Organizational Manual of the General Directorate of Road
Transport
G.4  Program to Increase Safety on the Roads
G.5   Annual Report 1990, Telephones of Mexico
G.6   Annual Report 1991, Telephones of Mexico
G.7  Publicity about Permanent Campaign for Accident Prevention
G.8  Preventive Medicine in Transportation in Mexico
G.9   Official Gazettes from January 24, 1990, October 29, 1990,
and February 4, 1991
G. 10  Official Announcements of Authorization for Investment for
Highway Reconstruction and Conservation, 1991
* Annexes and Original Spanish text available in LAC Information Center -



35
A.   INTRODUCTION
The program financed by Loans 3207-ME and 594.OC-ME of the
World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank had the objective of
supporting and deepening measures, initiated by the Federal Govemment,
that had already been identified and agreed for implementation in the
telecommunications and transportation sectors in the framework of the policy
of deregulation of the economy to promote free competition and the entering
of new enterprises into these sectors; to improve resource allocation through
the reform of policies on tariffs and prices; to privatize the most important
enterprise in telecommunications, TELMEX; and, in general, to restructure
the regulatory framework of the country.
The project consisted of financing the imports of the public and
private sectors of Mexico, through a quick disbursing mechanism and in two
equal tranches, provided that the various requirements previously agreed
upon for each tranche were fulfilled.
These loans were for an amount of US$680 million: US$380 million
from the World Bank and US$300 million from the IDB.
The Federal Government's intention in obtaining these loans was to
support the country's balance of payments: therefore, it committed itself to
the task of accelerating the implementation of agreed measures and also
accelerating the deregulation process for entry into the country, as soon as
possible, of the committed foreign exchange.
B.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND ITS OBJECTIVES
Loans No. 3207-ME and 594-OC/ME, were arranged jointly with the
World Bank and the IDB to support the economic deregulation program for
transportation and telecommunications which the government was already
implementing through the Ministry of Communications and Transport.
These loans were agreed upon to finance the acquisition of goods by
the public and private sectors that would be purchased through competitive
bidding and that would not be included in the negative list of goods. This
negative list referred to alcoholic beverages, tobacco, radioactive materials,
precious gems, nuclear reactors, jewels, etc., in addition to goods with
contracts for less than US$10,000 and goods that already had foreign
exchange financing. The disbursements took place in two equal tranches; the
first one, no later than 60 days after the date of effectiveness of the
respective (loan) contracts and on presentation of the following documents:
a.    eligibility of the expenditure
b.    signature of independent publics accountants who would
continue with the auditing functions of the project



36
c.    the agreement for the transfer of funds between the Borrower
and the Guarantor be signed
The second tranche would be disbursed upon agreement by the Banks
on: i) progress achieved on implementation of the program and ii) the
congruence between this program and the macroeconomic framework of
Mexico. The following obligations would also have to be met:
1.-   To increase the price of diesel by at least 10% in real terms, over the
prices of March 30, 1990, with the purpose of improving the level of
recovery of costs for expenditures related to improvements and
maintenance of highways used for trucking transportation.
2.-   (a) To complete a study to establish the variable long-term costs
related to transport of goods by the National Railroads of Mexico
(Ferronales); and (b) to make effective, no later than January 1, 1991,
an increase of national railroad tariffs for transport of goods such as
the following: iron mineral (10.1%), cement (7.9%), fertilizers
(5.5%), paper and cellulose (4.0%), wheat (5.0%), corn (4.4%),
sorghum (4.5%), carbon (4.1%), sugar (2.9%), soybean 2.1%, beans
(2.0%) oleoginose oils (1.4%), wheat (1.2%), spare parts for vehicles
(1.2%), salt (1.1%), calcium carbonate (6.0%), chemical products
(3.2%), silica sand (1.6%) and laminated steel (1.3%). The
percentages indicated for each of the goods, corresponded to their
participation in the total income of Ferronales for freight transport.
Such increase, in total, should represent at least 70% of the total
income for freight transport, to an equivalent level, in real terms, to
125% of the tariffs for each of the selected goods prevailing as of
March 30, 1990, or at the long term variable cost related to the
transport of each of the mentioned goods, whichever is lower.
3.-   To take the necessary measures in order that SCT submit to the
Programming and Budgeting Ministry (SPP),' and later to the
Congress for consideration, a budget for FY91 where the allocation
for highway maintenance expenditures (reconstruction and routine
maintenance) would be an amount, in real terms, of at least MEX
N$475,000 million, of which at least 40% would be allocated for
routine maintenance.
4.-   To put into effect a regulation that would require the periodic and
mandatory inspection of trucks, with the purpose of achieving the
fulfillment of the federal requirements on emission of contaminants,
including toxic gases.
5.-   To improve the level of safety on highways, through the following
measures:
1.    Now Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.



37
a) To present to the Bank an action plan to improve the level of
highway safety.
b) To complete the first phase of a study, for which terms of
reference would be previously agreed upon with the Bank, on the size
of the vehicles and the practices related to loading of merchandise by
truck transport; and to have initiated the second and third phases of
such study, for which terms of reference would have been equally
agreed upon with the Bank, with the purpose of recommending
measures for highway transport to conform with the regulation on the
size and weight of trucks.
6.-   To demonstrate that progress has been made in the implementation of
the privatization of Telefonos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (TELMEX).
7.-   To submit to the Bank a program for commercial development of
Telecommunications of Mexico (TELECOMM) which would include
financial plans and investments which would last through FY94.
8.-   To hire consultants, according to terms of reference previously agreed
to with the Bank, to provide technical assistance to SCT with the
purpose of developing its regulatory capacity in the
telecommunications sector and so that the mentioned Ministry could
put into effect regulations for the granting of concessions or permits
to operate networks and telecommunications services.
9.-   To submit to the Bank an action program for the strengthening of the
regulatory capacity of SCT in the field of telecommunications.
Based on the fulfillment of these commitments, the deregulation of
transportation and telecommunications was advanced. Hence, many barriers
that interfered with the free development of these branches of the economy
were removed, resulting in substantial improvements in the economy, and, in
addition, setting the basis for the negotiations of the free trade agreement.
C.  FULFILLMENT OF COMMITNTS
The various requirements established in the loan and guarantee
agreements were satisfactorily met during project implementation, and they
had a direct impact on this Ministry of Communications and Transport which
made possible the second tranche release.
Following is the way in which these requirements were handled:
1.-   ADJUSTMENT OF THE PRICE OF DIESEL
COMMITMENT.- To increase the diesel price by no less than 10%, in real
terms, with respect to the prevailing level of March 30, 1990.



38
This item was satisfied by an increase of 10.4%, on average, with
respect to the price of fuel in nominal terms in May, 1990. Also, on
November 11, 1990, the price of diesel was increased by 10%, thus covering
the agreement with the Banks.
2.- COMPLETION OF THE TARIFF STUDY BY FERRONALES
AND ADJUSTMENT OF THE TARIFTS BY 25% IN REAL
TERMS
COM]lMIENT.- To complete a study to determine the variable costs
associated with the transport of freight of FERRONALES, and to have
authorized the increase of freight tariffs for certain selected products by 25%
in real terms, in comparison to those prevailing on March 30, 1990.
The study "Evaluation of the System of Costs and Integration of a
Systematic Model of Tariffs," was completed and sent to the Banks in its
summarized version. With respect to the tariffs, these were increased by
23% on July 23, 1990, and, additionally, on October 5, of the same year, an
increase of 15% on average was authorized for 12 products which included
the four products whose prices lagged behind. With this increase the
commitment was met.
3.-  BUDGETARY INCREASE FOR MAINTENANCE OF
HIGHWAYS
COMMITMNIT.- To allocate within the budget for 1991 an amount
equivalent to MEX N$475,000 million, in real terms, for reconstruction and
routine maintenance, of which 40% will be towards routine maintenance.
The investments made during 1991 reached MEX N$721,047 million,
at current prices. By deflating this amount at constant prices of December,
1989, an investment of MEX N$555,078 million was achieved, as described
in the following table:
COMPARISON BETWEEN THE 1990 AND 1991 BUDGET, ALLOCATED TO
RECONSTRUCTION AND CONSERVATION WORKS
-MILLIONS OF PESOS-
CHANGE AUTHORIZED IN 1991.       AGREED WITH WB AT
CONCEPT            $ CURRENT   SDEC.89 (1)           PRICES OF DEC.89
RECONSTRUCTION
WORKS              462,079       355,719                   285,000
CONSERVATION       258,968       199,359                   190,000
TOTAL:       721,047      555,078                   475,000
(1) Inflation factor of 29.9% from December 1989 to December 1990.



39
From these numbers it can be seen that the 1991 budget was higher,
in real terms, by 17% compared to the 1990 budget allocation for the same
purposes. The condition was that it be at least MEX N$475,000 million,
therefore, the condition was fully met.
With respect to the allocation, 40% of the 1991 budget was for
routine conservation; it can be appreciated that the real factor was 36%,
therefore, this commitment was satisfactorily met.
4.-   REGULATION FOR THE PERIODIC AND MANDATORY
INSPECTION OF TRUCKS
COMiMITMENT.- To have made effective a regulation that requires
periodic and mandatory truck inspection, with the purpose of achieving the
fulfillment of the federal requirements about emission of contaminants,
including toxic gases.
This requirement was considered satisfied within the text of the aide
memoir of November 8, 1990; however, it was requested that the General
Directorate of Road Transportation prepare a succinct report about the
inspection of vehicles, which was submitted at the time and a copy of which
is attached.
5.-   COMPLETION OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE STUDIES OF
LOAD AND SIZE OF VEHICLES AND PREPARATION OF AN
ACTION PLAN TO IMPROVE HIGHWAY SAFETY
COMMITMENT.- (a) To submit to the World Bank an action plan to
improve highway safety. (b) To have completed the first phase of a study,
under TORs satisfactory to the Bank, about weight and dimensions of the
freight vehicles and the practices related to loading and to have started phases
two and three of the same study.
With respect to the action program to improve highway safety, the
Banks were satisfied with the final version officially published in March,
1991. During the study of implementation of weight and dimensions, there
were several problems both administrative as well as in delays in the
necessary assessments of the weight and dimensions analyses. The results
obtained do not allow for precision as far as the optimal weight and
dimensions of vehicles, but they do show that this type of study should be
made on a regular basis in order to readjust the existing regulations. With
the results obtained as of today, the regulations for weight and dimensions
will be updated. The final project proposal (for such regulation) is already
available and only the "appendix' terms, or 'guidelines', are being revised
as well as those related to classification of highways. It is expected that the
new regulations on "weight, dimensions and capacity of vehicles of road
transport that transit on roads of federal jurisdiction" will become effective
next July.



40
6.-   SALE OF TELMEX
COMMITMENT.- That the guarantor should have made progress in
implementation of the plan to privatize TELMEX.
On August 13, 1990, the information relevant to the sale process of
TELMEX shares, owned by the Federal Government, as published. On
December 9, 1990, the decision was announced for the sale of 20.4% of
TELMEX's social capital to the Carso Group, in the amount of US$1,757.6
million, with the remainder to be adjudicated during the month of January,
1991. However, the commitment was completely met.
7.- PROGRAM TO STRENGTHEN THE REGULATORY
CAPACITY OF SCT IN THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SECTOR.
COMMITMENT.- That consultants be hired, under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, to provide technical assistance to SCT in the
development of its regulatory capacity in the communications sector and to
present to the Banks the respective program.
According to the information provided by the Directorate General of
Policies and Guidelines for Communications, the study called "Program to
strengthen the regulatory function of SCT, through the Directorate General of
Policies and Guidelines for Communications," was assigned to ITSA
Consultants, S.A. of C.V. The proposal was approved by the World Bank
on November 15, 1990. However, it was calculated that the contracting,
execution, and revision of the program could take at least as long as to June
1991. With the purpose of not delaying until then the disbursement of the
second tranche of financing, it was proposed to a joint WB-IDB mission that
the condition be accepted as fulfilled on presentation of a preliminary plan in
January, 1991, and the government's commitment to execute it. This study
was undertaken during 1991. As of yet, however, it has not been possible to
implement the proposed actions for the reinforcement of the sector's
regulatory capacity as a result of the macroeconomic policies aimed at
reducing the sector's current expenditures and due to the limited budget for
implementation of projects. Nonetheless, progress has been made in the
installation of the software for the radioelectric spectrum and,
radiomonitoring equipment is being purchased, which will result in
accomplishing substantially the programmed goals. This project will be in
operation in mid-1994.
8.-  REGULATION WITH RESPECT TO THE CONCESSION OF
THE NETWORKS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
COMMITMENT.- That the Guarantor issue regulations with respect to the
concession of the networks and telecommunications services.



41
On October 29, 1990, the regulations of telecommunications that
regulate the concession of the networks and telecommunications services was
published in the Official Gazette. This regulation was given to the joint WB-
IDB mission, thereby satisfying this commitment.
9.-  PREPARATION OF A PLAN FOR THE COMMERCIAL
DEVELOPMENT OF TELECOMM
CONM1TMENT.- The Guarantor will have sent to the Bank a program for
the commercial development of TELECOMM, including investment and
financial programs up to FY94.
The final version of this report was given to the February, 1991,
mission.
D.    DISBURSEMENTS
The total amount of the loans was US$680 million, disbursed as
follows:
D. 1- BY THE WORLD BANK (LOAN NO. 3207-ME)
FIRST TRANCHE (THOUSANDS OF PESOS AND DOLLARS)
DATE OF    1 AMOUNT IN  |  EXCHANGE   J  AMOUNT IN
DISBURSEMENT   US DOLLARS  |            RATE            MEX N$
11-VI- 90              75,483          2,829.00      213,541,775
13-VIII-90                492          2,855.40         1,404,857
31-VIII-90            114,025          2,871.40       327,411,012
TOTAL                190,000  _                      542,357,644
SECOND TRANCHE (THOUSANDS OF PESOS AND DOLLARS)
DATE OF         AMOUNT IN        EXCHANGE          AMOUNT IN
DISBURSEMENT    US DOLLARS              RATE            MEX N$
21 -V-91             170,556          3,003.00       512,179,668
23-V-91               19,444          3,005.00        58,429,220
SUB-TOTAL              190,000                         570,608,888
TOTAL                380,000                       1,112,966,532



42
D.2- BY THE INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (CREDIT
594/OC-ME)
FIRST TRANCHE (THOUSANDS OF PESOS AND DOLLAR)
DATE OF    | AMOUNT IN           EXCHANGE   |AMOUNT IN
DISBURSEMENT   US DOLLARS              RATE            MEX N$
28-IX-90             150,000          2,880.00      432,000,000
150,000 __432,000,000
SECOND TRANCHE (THOUSANDS OF PESOS AND DOLLARS)
DATE OF        AMOUNT IN         EXCHANGE         AMOUNT IN
DISBURSEMENT   US DOLLARS             RATE*            MEX N$
30-IX-90                 375          2,880.00        1,080,000
31-XII-90                375          2,890.00         1,083,000
31-111-91                375          2,900.00        1,087,500
30-VI-91                 375          2,920.00         1,095,000
30-VIII-91            147,000          3,015.00      443,205,000
13-IX-91                 750          3,040.00        2,280,000
31-III-92                750          3,100.00        2,325,000
SUB-TOTAL              150,000                        452,156,250
TOTAL                300,000                        884,156,250
GRAND TOTAL              680,000                      1,997,122,782
Estimated Parity
In general, disbursements were carried through satisfactorily and did
not involve problems.
E.    LESSONS LEARNED
The implementation of the project substantially reinforced the Federal
Government's decision to invigorate the opening of the national economy and
commercial competition, to increase the efficiency of its enterprises and to
promote the opening of foreign markets.



43
The applied policies and measures have together contributed fully to
development of the economy, eliminating inefficiencies in several sectors and
excessive protectionism and the subsidies that the consumer was obligated to
pay for production inefficiency. Consequently, competitiveness was
encouraged and the nation in general has been strengthened.
The aforementioned was based on the completion of several studies
about the earlier structures, with the objective of determining the best ways
to reformulate them and to benefit from eliminating inefficiencies and
promoting competitiveness. For this reason, it became necessary to
undertake actions that would allow the achievement of these goals. Such is
the case of the issuance of new regulations, formulation of new specific
action plans and the increase of taxes and tariffs. In order to make the
deregulation process possible it was necessary to maintain a dialogue and
collaboration with the agencies involved. For the case that involves us, we
will talk about road transport and telecommunications.
- ROAD TRANSPORT
In the case of federal transportation the efforts culminated in the
issuance of new regulations for federal freight transport and for international
multimodal transport, published in July 1989, as well as those applied to
exclusive tourism service and regular passenger service, published in March
and May 1990, respectively. Also, in January 1990, the new regulations for
the service (for laborers) in zones of federal lands was published.
The impact of the implementation of earlier regulations in the
framework of deregulation of the economy was immediate in eliminating
administrative barriers and several deficiencies in operations which
discouraged new investors and generated unjustified price increases for
services. Consequently, the main beneficiaries have been the users
(consumers) who now have available to them safer, efficient and better
quality transport services. They also have a broader universe of service
providers from which they can hire the best bidder without having to go
mandatorily to the freight services main offices, as before.
In another aspect, the road transporters, by elimination of the
restrictions of circulating on specific routes, are authorized to transit in the
country with all types of goods (except explosives, toxics and chemical
products which are regulated in a specific manner), as well as to load and
unload at any point in the country with no restriction.
Also, with the elimination of tariff control, a healthy competition was
promoted among road transporters, allowing open negotiation of the service
fee and establishment of medium and long-term commitments, that lead to a
clearer perspective for investment and, for the user, a more adequate service
and better quality.



44
Given this perspective, the automotive industry grew considerably,
due, among other factors, to: i) the increase in the number of service
providers; ii) the equipment program established between the authorities and
the National Chamber of Freight Transport, the national automotive industry
and the Bank of Foreign Trade (BANCOMEXT). It is sufficient to say that
the program designed originally to acquire 4,200 tractor-trailer trucks for an
estimated amount of Mex N$1.0 billion has been expanded by another 5,200
units. Consequently, the fleet of transport vehicles which grew historically at
an average annual rate of 0.6% between 1980 and 1988, during 1989-1991
registered growth rates of 23.2% annually.
With respect to the level of production, the following indicators have
become available:
1)    During 1989, production reached 10,600 units, mainly heavy trucks of
7 and 15 tons and tractor-trailer trucks.
2)    For 1991, the production reached 23,000 units, registering an increase
of 116% in only three years.
3)    Passenger buses, greatly exceeded expectations, as the 680 units
produced in 1989 increased to 2,100 in 1991, registering an increase
of 310%.
The boom in the automotive industry has awakened the interest of
investors and foreign enterprises to invest in our country; with the consequent
advantages involved.
Additionally, with the total flexibility in the operation of services, the
global cost of distribution of products has been lowered and the delivery time
has been optimized; therefore, the enterprises producing intermediate goods
and consumer goods can establish "just in time" programs.
As regards the exclusive tourism service, among the results should be
noted: the elimination of exclusiveness for its operation to enable the users
to negotiate the price of service with the travel agency, operators or
wholesalers, except in the excursion modality, and transportation enterprises
that when directly negotiating with the user, encourage a better flow to
national touristic points of interest through the operation of chartered road
trips for international chartered trips. The mandatory agreements between the
foreign enterprises and the only Mexican enterprise authorized to operate the
exclusive tourism service was eliminated.
In passenger service, the access to new service providers was
facilitated, new routes were authorized and the establishment of the number
of trips became flexible. Also, the types of service were diversified at
competitive prices and better level of services, safety and comfort.



45
In summary, the package of actions implemented in federal road
transport has lead to increasing its economic importance, estimating that its
participation in the gross domestic product increased from 1.4 to 1.6%
during 1990-1991.
Notwithstanding the accomplishments, it is important to point out that
the enterprises are at an adjustment stage in which the "atomization"
phenomenon is present. This situation has created the disappearance of some
enterprises which were not able to face the changes; and, those enterprises
that grouped a large number of road transporters, that in a great majority of
the cases acted as mere processors without providing any benefit to their
partners, had to face the loss of an important number of their members or the
disintegration of the society.
With respect to transport by railroad, with the increase of tariffs, cost
recovery was improved remarkably, especially in the transport of freight.
However, these increases still do not allow total cost recovery and
even less the equitable competition between railroad and road transport. For
this, it will be necessary to strengthen the measures in the future for the
modernization of railroad transport and the application of tariffs that would
allow for an adequate economic profitability of this service.
Regarding the national program of mandatory verification of low
emission of contaminants, starting in 1990, the Ministry of Communications
and Transport, in coordination with the Ministry of Urban Development and
Ecology, established the "national program of mandatory verification of low
emission of contaminants by vehicles used for transport of passengers and
freight that circulate on the roads of federal jurisdiction," which applies to
enterprises and persons using federal and private transport, as well as those
that are the property of the federal, state and local governments, with the
exception of the units of private transport of up to nine passengers and those
for freight with capacity of no more than 4,000 kilograms.
For that purpose, the Ministries of Communications and Transport
and of Urban Development and Ecology, on May 3, 1990, signed a joint
agreement in which the provisions are established for the mentioned national
program for mandatory verification of emission of contaminants.
Also, on May 11, 1990, the national program of verification was
announced to the general public through the news media, along with the
invitation to establish and operate centers for verification, documents in
which are indicated the period of verification in the first phase (from June 15
to November 30, 1990) and the requirements for obtaining the respective
authorization.
During 1990, the Ministry of Communications and Transport
authorized 308 verification centers that were equipped with 348 opacimeters,
197 gas analyzers and 311 sonimeters. Out of these centers, 140 are located



46
in the metropolitan area of Mexico City and the remaining 168 in the interior
of the country. During June and November of this period, 188,154 units
were verified, out of which 153,720 were for diesel engine vehicles and
34,434 for gas engine vehicles.
During 1991 and 1992 the program for mandatory verification of
freight and passenger vehicles was continued.
With respect to highway safety in the country, the campaigns for the
prevention of accidents have been intensified, through television and
advertisements along the highways, as well as through the publication of
posters and pamphlets to make drivers more conscious about: not driving
with excessive speed, with drinking beverages -- before or after a trip, using
the safety belt, coming to a full stop before entering a railway crossing and
inspecting the vehicle before getting on the highway. Annex G.7 contains a
set of the pamphlets published by the General Directorate for Preventive
Medicine in Transport. Also, a series of seminars have taken place about
highway safety, the last one in Mexico City during November, 1992. This
was an international seminar, with national and international participants as
well as speakers of the highest quality and experience at world levels.
- TELECOMMUNICATIONS:
With the sale of Telefonos de Mexico and the concession to operate
several substations for radiodifusion, the quality and modernization of the
service have been improved. In another area, SCT is acting on several
measures to improve its regulatory capacity, through the installation and
operation of the software for the radioelectric spectrum, the acquisition of
equipment for radiomonitoring, as well as through the construction and
launching of satellites (SOLIDARIDAD satellites), which is planned for the
end of this year.
On deregulation, the regulation for telephone service is probably the
one that has undergone the greatest changes, given that the service has been
substantially modernized, its coverage has been broadened and the quality has
been improved.
In addition, the costs to the consumer were lowered and
administrative inefficiencies were eliminated in delivery of the service. As of
today, a sustained increase in the coverage of service can be observed, as
well as the application of the most advanced technology. In the same
manner, a logarithmic increase of cellular phones is observed.
The above can be observed in the physical and financial goals reached
by Telefonos de Mexico during the 1991-1992 period.



47
AT THE END OF 1991:
The consolidated income was a total of Mex N$16.3 billion pesos, an
amount which is 21.1!% higher in real terms than the goal achieved in 1990;
the net consolidated and adjusted profits rose to Mex N$7.0 billion pesos, an
amount which is 77.8% higher than that obtained during 1990.
During this year Telefonos de Mexico, consolidated its access to the
international capital markets, as a result of the public offering, national and
international, of 1725 million shares of series "L" of Telefonos de Mexico,
owned by the Federal Government, which took place on May 13, 1991. This
operation was the first time in history that a Mexican enterprise put shares in
the markets of more than 20 countries and, due to the amount it was the most
important in the history of Mexico and the seventh largest in the world.
With respect to service lines, during this year 670,000 lines were
placed in service, representing an accumulated total of 6,024.8 miles of lines
in service, 12.5% higher than that of the previous year.
For the outside plant, when the year was over 7,040.3 kilometers of
ducts for cable were built which is 23.9% more than in 1990, and the works
for enlargement and rehabilitation of the outside plant were continued, to
improve the quality of service and reduce complaints by consumers.
The long distance system was increased by 9,676,126 circuit-
kilometers, with which the accumulated goal of 68,465,140 circuit-kilometers
was reached, representing 16.4% of growth with respect to the previous
year. During this year, Telefonos de Mexico made progress in the
modernization of the long distance network by implementing the construction
of 13,500 kilometers of optic fiber cable, initiating the modernization of
traffic by operator through the installation and start-up of 1,300 digital ports
and 32 long distance centers.
Regarding the integrated digital network, the commercialization of this
network was started and covered 17 cities and was complemented by the
satellite network installed during the year. By the end of the year, 2,200
companies were being serviced. Also, the networks of important private
enterprises as well as government agencies were installed and the financial
network which interconnects the stock exchange and financial institutions of
the country were put into service.
12,192 public telephones were installed in the country and provide
long distance service through the use of coins, tokens, credit cards, collect
calls and debit cards.
With respect to cellular phones, by the end of the year, Radio Movil
DIPSA, a subsidiary of Telefonos de Mexico, provided service for 70,663
users in 23 cities in the country.



48
Finally, 2,648 rural phones were incorporated into the telephone
service, to reach the goal of a total of 12,869 towns, namely, 25.9% more
than the previous year.
AT THE END OF 1992:
Telefonos de Mexico had a total of 6,753,652 service lines,
representing a growth of 12.1 % over the total lines at the end of 1991 and
26.1 % with respect to the service lines at the end of 1990. Additionally, in
an effort to incorporate new users into the system, 449,592 lines of obsolete
technology were replaced during the 1991-1992 biennium, which, added to
the construction activity, resulted in 52% of the installed lines being digital
as of December, 1992. In another area, to eliminate bottlenecks that made
the work of macrocenters more difficult, during the 1991-1992 period, 21
new centers were built; also, to improve user services, 14 new commercial
offices were built, 12 information and consultation (via telephone) centers
were opened and mechanized systems were provided to the 294 branch
offices.
In the long distance service, the installation of a system of 1,420
digital ports was initiated that will be located in 39 centers distributed
throughout the country and will improve service by operator, as well as have
the capacity to offer other services.
During this year the telephone traffic for national long distance
increased 12.1%, compared to 1991, to reach a number of 5,294 million
billed minutes. On one side the international long distance traffic showed a
growth of 30.5%, in terms of billed minutes, including traffic between the
border cities of Mexico and the United States that, until 1991, was charged
and registered as local but, since January 1, 1992, is registered and billed as
international service. For cellular telephones, TELCEL, the cellular service
company, reached a total of 145,894 users at the end of 1992, representing
an increase of 75,231 users and 106% growth with respect to 1991. As of
this date cellular telephone service is offered in 48 cities in the country.
The total consolidated income increased 13.7% in real terms when
compared to the equivalent revenues as of December 31, 1991. Out of total
income, revenue associated with international long distance service represents
21.2%, reflecting an increase of 4.4% in real terms, as a result of the growth
of telephone traffic, the tariffs for these services, as well as the effect of a
lower devaluation rate of the Mexican peso compared to the inflation rate,
which impacts on cash revenues. The revenues from national long distance,
which represent 34.8% of the total, grew 8.6%, in real terms.
Regarding the revenues for local service, they are 40.0% of total
income, and showed a real increase of 24.8%, attributable to the existing
lines in service, to the incorporation of new users, to the tariff increase and
to the higher volume of local traffic.



49
As can be appreciated in the details in earlier paragraphs, the
development of telecommunications has been rapid. Nonetheless, it is
thought that this phase of modernization and improvement of service will
continue in its process of consolidation during the next two years, until
optimization of the service is achieved.
In another area, presently, the Ministry for Communications and
Transport is making efforts to improve its regulatory capacity and to
strengthen the standards in the area. For this reason, it continues to work on
the software for the radioelectrical and radiodifussion spectrum, as well as
the installation of a radiomonitoring system.
To conclude, the progress achieved is judged to have been very
considerable and it had an impact on the deregulation of transport and
telecommunications in a substantial and irreversible manner and, therefore,
the economy of the country is improving rapidly. The deregulation of the
economy is in the process of adjustment and it is expected that during the
1993-1994 biennium it will be consolidated, until the optimal conditions for
the country are met.
F.-   CONCLUSIONS AND COMMENTS.
1.-   The support of the referenced loan contributed to the communications
and transport sectors' achievements in undertaking programs that promote
healthy competition in road transport, through the implementation of
measures to cancel restrictions that used to interfere in the system's growth
as well as the strengthening of the privatization process and the
modernization of the telecommunications system.
2.-   The current situation of multimodal transport is characterized by the
elimination of protectionist schemes that used to impede participation of new
entrepreneurs in the market, inhibit competition and generate few incentives
to improve the service' and the more efficient use of resources. Thus, (the
new scheme) avoids monopolistic operations in the provision of road services
and allows more flexibility to modernize and increase the provision of
services.
3.-   The process of deregulation of federal transport was brought about
through dialogue and coordination of government policy, accompanied, as a
consequence, by the creation of new regulations. The impact of deregulation
had immediate effects such as the elimination of several administrative and
operational deficiencies which limited the incorporation of new investors and
generated an unjustified increase in the price of services.
4.-   The main beneficiaries of deregulation have been the users who now
have available to them safer, more efficient and higher quality transport
services and who can hire the provider that best meets their needs. The
transporters, for their part, are authorized to transit through all national



50
routes with all types of merchandise, except explosive toxic and chemical
products, which are regulated in a specific manner.
5.-   The elimination of tariff control has led to a healthy competition
among transporters, allowing them to negotiate the price of their services and
to establish medium and long-term commitments.
6.-   The automotive and autoparts industry has grown enormously
following deregulation, due, among other factors, to the increase in the
number of service providers as well as to the program for equipment
established between the federal authority, the National Chamber of Freight
Transport, the national automotive industry and the Bank of External Trade.
7.-   The fleet of vehicles for freight transport grew historically at an
average annual rate of 0.6% between 1980 and 1988. In the last three years,
it registered an average annual rate of growth of 23.2%, which practically
doubled the fleet; the passenger service fleet grew at an average annual rate
of 5.7% from 1989 to 1991, and reached 18.2% in 1992.
8.-   In the case of production of first class buses, growth was greater than
the expectations, growing from 680 units produced in 1989 to 2,000 in 1991,
representing an increase of 310%.
9.-   The boom in the automotive industry has meant 100% utilization of
installed capacity, and it has awakened the interest of investors and foreign
enterprises to invest in our country.
10.-  With the advantage of great flexibility in operations and services, it
has been possible to lower the overall cost of product distribution and faster
deliveries have taken place.
11.-  Together, the measures implemented in federal transport have led to
an increase in its economic importance, resulting in an estimated increase in
participation (of federal transport) in GDP from 1.4% to 1.6% in the last two
years.
12.-  With respect to fuels, diesel reached international price levels by the
end of 1992. To avoid delays in this respect, a monthly adjustment program
has been implemented. These measures guarantee a flow of resources that,
added to other support such as the growing participation of private
investment, the financing from abroad, and the greater quantity of budgetary
resources given by the Federal Government, will allow greater attention to
the conservation of the highway network.
13.-  For railroad transport tariffs, it should be noted that between 1989
and 1990 a considerable restructuring took place both in the transport of
persons as well as of bulk freight, in order to cover medium-term variable
costs.



51
14.-  In reference to environmental contamination, the national program for
verification of emission contaminants of passenger and freight vehicles that
circulate on the roads of federal jurisdiction was implemented in 1990. The
ecological technical standards establishing the maximum permissible levels of
smoke emissions were updated.
15.-  In the telecommunications sector, the sale of TELMEX went faster
than what had been originally planned and the results obtained during the last
two years show the success of the decision, since considerable improvements
in quality and scale of the services offered have already been achieved. The
new TELMEX set goals for expansion and modernization with the objective
of accelerating the quality of telephone service both for marginal populations
as well as in the large cities.
16.-  In the telecommunications sector, the policy has appropriately focused
on the privatization of non-strategic activities. This has allowed for the
competitive boom of cellular telephone enterprises, in order to provide an
alternate service and to complete the turnover of communications of this type
at the national level.
17.-  With the objective of continuing with the modemization of
telecommunications, and given that the "Morelos I" and "Morelos II"
satellites are working at full capacity and have entered the period of
obsolescence, for 1994 the system of "Solidarity" satellites, which belongs to
a more modem generation, will be placed in orbit. This will result in a
higher quality, reliability and transmission capacity of signals of large scale
and speed.
18.-  The transport and the telecommunications deregulation program is in
its consolidation stage, and it is expected that in the 1993-1994 period, it will
reach the optimal point of development.



52
MEXICO
ROAD TRANSPORT & TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3207-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART m
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
FY of                                             Loan Amount
Approval   Loan No.           Loan Title          (US$ million)     Sau
1984       2428-ME   Highway Sector II                200        Completed
1987       2875-ME   Highway Maintenance               135       Disbursing
1989       3087-ME   Industrial Sector Policy         500        Completed
1990       3208-ME   Telecomm. Technical               22        Disbursing
Assistance
2. Project Timetable
Item                  Date Planned               Actual Dat
Identification            June 20, 1989             June 20, 1989
Preparation               July 30, 1989             July 30, 1989
Preappraisal              November 5, 1989          November 5, 1989
Appraisal Mission Dep.    January 15, 1990          January 15, 1990
Start of Negotiations     March 26, 1990            March 26, 1990
Board Approval            May 29, 1990              May 29, 1990
Signing Date              June 5, 1990              June 5, 1990
Effectiveness Date        June 25, 1990             June 25, 1990
Closing Date             June 30, 1991              June 30, 1991



53
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY90       FY91
Appraisal estimate                            190          190
Actual                                        190         190
Actual as % of estimated                      100         100
Date of Final Disbursement: May 23, 1991
4. Project Costs and Financing
Project Financing
Source                        Planned Loan
Agreement
IBRD
Expenditure Categories
General Imports                                     380
TOTAL
5. Use of Bank Resources
Staff Utilization
(in staff weeks)
Task          FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   TQt_
Identification         13.9     -      -       -         13.9
Preparation            -        77.3   -       -         77.3
Appraisal                       22.8   -       -        22.8
Negotiations           -         5.4   -       -         5.4
Sub-total           13.9    105.5  -        -       119.4
Supervision                      0.2   13.8   0.5        14.5
Total               13.9    105.7  13.8   0.5        133.9



54
6. Mission Data
No. of  No. of  Total    Date of
l                  gMonth/Year bY   Weeks   Staff    Weeks   Ret
Identification    June 1989    89   1        4        4        July 12, 1989
Preparation       July 1989    90   1        4        4
Preappraisal I    Oct. 1989    90   1        2        2        Nov. 19, 1989
Preappraisal II   Nov. 1989   90  2          11       22       Jan. 19, 1990
Appraisal         Jan. 1990    90  2         8        16       Feb. 6, 1990
Supervision I     Aug. 1990   91   1.2       3        3.6      Sept. 7, 1990
Supervision II    Nov. 1990   91   1.2       2        2.4      Dec. 5, 1990
Supervision III   Feb. 1991   91   1.2       3        3.6      Feb. 25, 1991
Supervision IV    April 1991   91   1        4        4        April 19, 1991
Completion        Feb. 1993   93   2         2        4



Annex 1
55                        Unofficial Translation
Mr. Barber Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U. S. A.
Dear Sir:
The Government of Mexico hereby requests a loan from the World
Bank to support its modernization program in transportation and
telecommunications, as described in the National Development Plan for
1989-1994. The Plan establishes that the legal and institutional framework
will be updated, so that the Government will be better able to undertake
its responsibilities to modernize, increase the efficiency and improve the
quality of transportation and telecommunications services as well as
promote competition and avoid the development of monopolies.
Road Transport
In the context of the Plan, on July 6, 1989 the Government issued
new regulations for federal road transportation which allow free entry to
the trucking market and eliminate various provisions which constrained an
efficient market operation. At the same time, new regulations for
multimodal transportation were also issued which will promote increased
competition in this important activity. More recently, further steps were
taken to improve the efficiency of various activities that are auxiliary to
trucking, such as loading and unloading and drayage services, through the
deregulation and promotion of competition. Other regulations that
interfered with market efficiency, such as setting tariff ceilings for
trucking or constraining the ability of in-bond assemblers to transport
their goods with their own truck fleets, were repealed this past January.
We have also decided to allow containers temporarily brought into the
country to transport domestic cargoes on their return trips to ports, which
should foster a better utilization of these containers. Also, during the
next twelve mouiths we intend to reach agreement with the state governments
on measures to align their regulations with the new national framework.
Finally, we have taken steps to reorganize SCT's structure to better
reflect its new role in light of the revised policies in the road transport
sector.
The various measures outlined above redefine,the legal framework
for road transportation in Mexico. They will be supported by various
actions in other fields so as to help achieve the final objective, which is
to modernize transportation so that Mexican producers will have access to a
service that is efficient and of good quality.
1/ Original of signed letter, in Spanish, dated May 4, 1990, available in
Legal Files.



Annex 1
Among the further actions considered, we should highlight ongoing
and planned efforts on highway maintenance and rehabilitation. We have
assigned priority in our budget to expenditures for these purposes and we
have already approved an increase that exceeds 40Z over the amount that had
originally been planned for this fiscal year. The Government is committed
to continue further increasing the budget for highway maintenance and
rehabilitation, within the constraints imposed by macroeconomic
considerations, until the needs of the network are fully met. This
decision is linked to the Government's present policy to continue
attracting private investment to the road sector, by granting concessions
for the construction and operation of toll roads and Iridges; this will
free financial resources so that other needs, particularly highway
maintenance, may be met.
We will seek an improved distribution of cargo transportation
between the railways and the trucking fleet. The distribution should be
based on economic criteria, since this will result in a more efficient use
of installed capacity and will result in a better allocation of future
investments, both public and private. To achieve this, within the context
of the PECE (Stabilization and Economic Growth Program), we will
periodically adjust railway cargo tariffs so as to align them with long run
variable costs as soon as possible. Likewise, we will also periodically
adjust diesel fuel prices and other charges on truckers so that by 1991 the
maintenance and renewal costs which they cause to the highway network are
fully recovered. Recently the Mexican Congress approved changes to the tax
treatment of trucking, which was aligned with the general tax framework for
all business activities, thus improving the equity of the system.
We are particularly concerned about road safety and are
undertaking actions to improve it. Higher expenditures on highway
maintenance should contribute towards this objective.  At the same time, we
will encourage truckers to purchase third party liability insurance which
should provide a market incentive to maintain their vehicles in safe
operating conditions.  Likewise, we will increase to realistic levels and
adjust periodically the truckers' responsibility for cargo damages, which
should improve cargo handling. These measures will be complemented by
actions that the Government will undertake to improve highway safety.  We
have already set up a coordinating committee cf all agencies involved in
road safety issues and have engaged consultants to conduct a study on
vehicle sizes and loads, which should provide a sound basis for the
formulation of future action plans.
Telecommunications
In the telecommunications sector the modernization and expansion
of services will require major investments, and the Govermnent has decided
to attract private capital to the sector. Thus. fiscal resources will be
freed to fund other priority needs, such as health, education and housing.
In this context, we wish to highlight the Government's decision to sell its
shares in TELMEX, so that in the future TELMEX's management and financing
will be in private sector hands. The Government of Mexico is well aware
that technological changes now allow expanded room for competition in the



Annex 1
57
telecommunications field, and the regulatory framework will be adjusted so
as to allow and promote competition wherever this proves to be feasible.
Thus, we expect that many firms will he able to develop data transmission
services, cellular telephony and data bank and other services. Towards the
end of 1989 bidding competition for the provision of cellular telephony in
various regions of the country was undertaken and awards were made. The
process confirmed the great interest of the private sector to operate
telecommunication services.
In order to adequately protect the public interest in the
provision of telephone services, the Government needs to build up its
regulatory capacity and we are developing technical assistance and training
programs for this purpose.  As regards to tariffs, the Government will only
set them for services provided under monopoly conditions. In such cases
the tariffs will be based on economic criteria and we will seek to assure a
fair rate of return to the service provider. The Government will also
regulate the tariffs and technical conditions for the interconection
between monopoly and free market services.
Operating resp)onsibilities in the telecommunications sector for
various activities that were being handled by the Ministry of
Conmunications and Transport have now been transferred to a newly
established independent public enterprise, TELECOMM. This should help
avoid conflicts of interest between the Government's role in policy
formulation and regulation and the provision of services. We expect
TELECOMM to operate as a financially autonomous institution and to be
readily responsive to technological advances.
Best regards,
Pedro Aspe                            Andres Caso Lombardo
Minister of Finance                   Minister of Communications
and Public Credit                     and Transport



WEXICO
MEXICO - ROAD TRANSPORT AND TELECOWUIICATIONS SECTOR ADJUSTkENT PROJECT
Policy Matrix
Actions to be Taken
Objectiv-s                             Actions Already Taken                           by Second Tranche                         Status
I.   SCT
1.   Improve the institutional             A modernization unit has been set-up to
arrang eme nts, organization,            undertake the reorganization.
staffing and training for
regulatory activities within SCT.
Doveloped and substantially implemented
a plan to reorganize SCT's functions in
the trucking sector.
Consultants should bo engaged to      . Contracted Oct. 1990;
strongthen SCT's rogulatory capacity  delayed from program for
in the tel-cos unications sector.       may 1990.
* Satisfactory action plan to           . April 1991 SCT furnished
strengthen SCT's regulatory capacity  approved Action Plan.
In the telecommunications sector
should be furnished
II. Road Transport
2.   Ellminot, regulatory barriers         Eliminated system of concessions.
to competition and efficiency.             Eliminated systoe  of route
rostrictions.
Eliminated system of freight centort.
Eliminsted Multimodal's monopoly on
*ulti- model transport.
* Eliminated restrictions to access into
cargo handling.
Eliminated restrictions on                                                                                             D
msaquiladoras to own and operate their                                                                                   x
own trucks.



* Eliminated restrictions on return
loading of international containers.
* Developed a plan of action to enter
into trucking deregulation agreements
with all states.
3.  Allow trucking prices to be              Eliminated 16S surcharge on imported
detereined by mirket forces, ard           goods.
eliminate distortions on costs.
E Eliminated Government involvement in
setting tariffs.
* Eliminated preferential tax treatment
for truckers.
Provided comitment to achieve full                Increase diesel fuel prices by 10%          Prices, in real terms,
incroased by 21% during
cost recovery from truckers and increased    (in real terms) so as to                         1990.
diesel prices by 6.6%.                           significantly improve  cost recovery
from truckers.
4.  Ensure that the price of                 Provided comitent to adjust                       Furnish to the Bank a completed              Study completed Nov.          tn
competing mode (railways) is based         FERRONALES rates for key commodities to           study of railway rates based on              1990; rates increased July
and October 1990.
on economic criteria),                     long run variable cost lovels and                 economic criteria and increase
approved a more agile system for rate            FERRONALES rates for key comodities,
revision.  Initisted study to improve            which account for 70S of cargo
data base for tariff setting decisions,           revenues, by 26% (in real terms) or
to long run variable costs; such
increase to become effective not
later than January 1, 1991.
6.  In,prove allocation of highway           Provided comitment to increase highway
expenditures.                              maintenance budgets, taking into account
macroeconomic constraints.
Increased SCT's budget for maintenance           Submit budget proposal for highway          Budget increase target
expenditures in 1990 by Mext 166 billion,        maintenance for 1991, furthor               met.
increasing it by Mext 46 billion (in
real terms); of the total at least
40% should be for routine
mo 1ntenance.
x
K)



S.  Improve quality and *nforcement    . Strengthened group to coordinate safety
of necessary regulations for              policies.
safety, weight controls and
environment.
Work done on First
Started study on vehicle sizes and              Complete first phase and initiate        Phase satisfactorily and
loadings,                                       second and third phases (policy            met condition of loan,
recommndatios) of  tudy.with comnpletion due June
r-comendotionc) of study.                  1993. Second and Third
Present satisfactory action plan to   phases started.
improve road safety.                      . Action Plan presented
Sept. 1990.
Drafted regulations requiring periodic          Issue regulations requiring             . Mandatory emissions
inspection of trucks to monitor                 periodic inspection of trucks to          inspection issued May 1990.
complionce with environmental standards         monitor compliance with environmental
and initiated a program to improve fuel         standards.
quality.
III. Teleco_mmunications
7.  Promote increased private               Public announcement of policy goals in                                                                                ON
sector participation and                  sector, including promoting competition
competition in telecommunications.        and privatizing TELLEX.
Engagement of investment bankers to
handle sale of TELLEX's shares. Engaged
foreign investiment banker to assist in
handling sale.
Prepared program and tim_table for
handling privatiration of TELMEX.
Furnished a satisfactory draft
franchise.                                        Satisfactory progress towards sale        Sale of controlling
of a controlling intereat in TELMEX,   interest completed Dec. 20,
1990; earlier than
including receipt of bids and award    expected.
decision by Government.
(D



* Awarded concessions for cellular
telephony in Federal District and in rest
of the country.
Issu  regulations governing th       . "Reglamento de
reguatins  overingthe  Telecomunlicaciones"
licensing of telecomunications         publiBhed in Diario Oficial
networks and services.                  on Oct. 20, 1990.
B.  Improve resource allocation in          Rates were adjusted in January 1990,
the market for telecomunications          reducing cross subsidies and increasing
services.                                 average level by 70X
* Tax treatment of sector has been
realigned.
9.  Improve the efficiency of               Decree setting up TELECOUM has been
sector institutions,                      issued, and SCT's operating functions
have been transfered to TELECOUM.
Furnished a statement of TELECOMM               Furnish satisfactory business plan        Provided April, 1991;
policy and objectives.                          (including investment end financing)   delay from expected date of
Nov. 1990.
for TELECOMM.
IV. Macroeconomic Management
10.  Macroeconomic consistency.                                                             Satisfactory assessment of the            For tranche release May
medium term macroeconomic framework.
x
D'



62                             Annex 3
SELECTED INDICATORS OF TELMEX PERFORMANCE
1.    It is of interest to evaluate some aspects of TELMEX performance
under the new ownership and to review compliance with some terms of the
concession contract. This concession contract gave TELMEX a monopoly on
all fixed-link telephone services until August 1996, and specified rules for
maximum prices, for minimum investment plans, for minimum service
quality and obligations regarding the interconnection of other service
providers. These rules are normally designed to protect consumers from
monopolistic practices.
2.    Pricing. The formula used for price regulation requires in essence that
the cost of a basket of services including installation and rental charges,
measured local, domestic and international long distance calls be maintained
constant in real terms between 1991 and 1996. Data from 1991 indicate that
due to the application of annual adjustment of rates, rather than quarterly
adjustments, and other specific changes in some rates, the effective price cap
was exceeded in real terms. Results were not yet available for 1992.
3.     Changes in prices of individual services are also subject to
restrictions. In general the criteria are that for each service recovery of long
term incremental costs must be achieved and that cross-subsidies must be
eliminated, this being a major objective of the policy reform. Tables 1 and 2
present the actual evolution of tariffs, in nominal and real terms, since 1989
for the different services. A summary of the patterns of change, in real
terms, indicates that in effect a substantial realignment of rates has occurred
in the direction of eliminating the cross-subsidies between services. In
essence, rates for local services and domestic long distance have increased
substantially while international long distance charges have declined.
4.     The pricing formula adopted for regulating TELMEX rates' has the
apparent advantage of being simple, easy to monitor and is objective with no
possibilities for undue outside interference. At the same time the criteria
established for setting individual rates conform to basic efficiency
considerations. However, monitoring is made difficult as in reality for each
service tariffs represent a large number of subcategories and the
corresponding weights required to compute the basket are not easily obtained.
In addition, the estimation of long run incremental costs per service is an
extremely complex task. The presence of common costs, externalities,
economies of scale and of scope and technological change require a large
1.     Pricing. The formula used for price regulation is an RPI minus X price-cap type.
In this method a basket of services is subject to price control which in the case of TELMEX
include installation and rental charges, measured local calls and domestic and intemational
long distance calls. Every quarter the weighted average price can only rise at the retail price
index (RPI) minus an X percentage that is set periodically. For TELMEX this value is zero
for the period 1991-1996 and 0.74% per quarter for the period 1997-98. After that, X will
be set every four years in accordance with the method of incremental costs specified in the
concession contract.



63                               Annex 3
amount of information, analysis and judgement. This puts a heavy burden on
both TELMEX and the regulators.2
5.     Price adjustments have not followed strictly those established in the
concession contract. Variations with respect to the maximum price levels
according to the price-cap and of specific rate changes established in the
concession contract are reasons for concern as there seems to be no strict
adherence to the contract, giving room for direct negotiations between
TELMEX and SCI. Also, while a substantial realignment of rates has
occurred in the direction of eliminating the cross-subsidies between services,
it is not evident that the structure of rates is moving at the estimated pace
towards a better balance between local and long distance charges.
Transparency, competition policies and SCT's regulatory power seem to be
endangered by these practices.
6.     Investment plan. The concession contract requires that TELMEX meet
certain specific investment targets. A review of 1991 and 1992 data indicates
that in most accounts TELMEX has been able to comply with its growth
targets, thereby satisfying one of the main purposes of the privatization
program. The total investment levels have reached US$ 2.25 billion in 1991
and US$ 2.4 billion in 1992. US$ 2.4 - 2.5 billion are planned for 1993.
This compares extremely favorably with investment levels of the 1980s. Most
importantly, the rate of increase in lines was 12.5% in 1991 and 12.1% in
1992, above the average target of 12% for the 1991 - 1994 period. Still,
casual observations suggest that the lack of prompt response to connection
requests (30 months delay) continues to be a major source of complaints by
customers.
7.     Ouality of service. The concession contract specifies the need to meet
certain minimum quality standards.3 Table 3 presents the available data on
2.     TELMEX was required by the concession contract (Clause 6-6) to present
periodically a 'study on the appraisal of incremental costs for regulated services'. The first
such study was to be made available on December 31, 1992. To date no such study has been
contracted. SCT indicated that estimated costs exceeded US$1.1 million and therefore
recommended a review of the terms of reference. A 6 month extension of the deadline was
agreed.
3.     The first is a 'Service Continuity Index' including fault rate and proportion of faults
repaired in the same day and in three days. The second index represents 'Service Quality
and combines time to obtain dial tone, proportion of calls completed at the first attempt,
operator response time, and number of public phones in service. Table 3 presents the
available data on compliance of these targets. Regarding continuity of service the overall
ICON index is well above target, however, deficiencies exist in the rate of lines with failure.
Actually some geographical areas reported significant increases in the failure rate during
1992. In view of this, SCT reports that a special program was set up by TELMEX, dealing
specially with integral replacement of lines by district, and at the same time had to
compensate customers for the time that lines were not operational. The service quality index
(ICAL) reports an overall satisfactory index, with deficiencies in the speed of response of
special services operators. However, measurement problems and methods swem to hide the
real availability of public telephone booths and some of the other quality indexes. SCT does
(continued...)



64                          Annex 3
compliance of these targets. Regarding continuity of service the overall
ICON index is well above target, however, deficiencies exist in the rate of
lines with failure. To correct for this, SCT reports that a special program
was set up by TELMEX, dealing specially with integral replacement of lines
by district, and, at the same time, TELMEX had to compensate customers
for the time that lines were not operational. The service quality index (ICAL)
reports an overall satisfactory level, with deficiencies in the speed of
response of special services operators. However, measurement problems and
methods seem to hide the real availability of public telephone booths and
some of the other quality indexes. SCT does not report an independent audit
of these indexes.
8.    Productivity. It was expected that privatization and foreign
participation would improve operational efficiency. On this account
productivity estimates indicate that during 1991 total factor productivity
increased by 24.5%, with a large share due to specific labor productivity
increases (36%). In this area TELMEX has promoted an active policy of
personnel attrition and retraining. More sources of productivity increases are
expected in the area of capital goods. Having a well defined investment plan
and being more aggressive in bidding procedures should improve prices for
these goods. No productivity data are available for 1992.
9.    Management practices have been significantly changed. A single
senior director concentrates all responsibilities regarding telephone service.
Six out of eleven senior managers come from outside the telecommunications
sector. Foreign participation has implied the presence of about 40
professionals from Southwestern Bell and France Telecomm, whose main
involvement has been the revision of the technical aspects related to network
design and support in training for higher-level management.
10. Financial returns. A simple comprehensive picture of the evolution of
TELMEX is obtained by analyzing the financial statements since 1989,
presented in Table 4. Overall after tax profit has reached a level of US$
2,600 million in each of the two years under private ownership. This
represents a large increase relative to the 1990 level (78%) which by itself
was 82% higher than 1989. The basic reason for these results is that the
modifications in the tariff structure have doubled revenues from sales in real
terms since 1989. With constant receipts from international long distance, 2/3
of the increase is due to local service and 1/3 to domestic long distance.
11.   A notable consequence of these results has been the ability of
TELMEX to reduce its debt position (liabilities/assets ratio declined from
35% in 1991 to 28.9% in 1992) while at the same time financing fully its
investment program and providing an increase in distributed shares to its
owners.
3.(. . .continued)
not report an independent audit of these indexes.



TABLE 1
TELMEX. EVOLUTION OF TARIFFS BY SERVICE
(Current Mex$) a/
Item             1989      1990  |%oChange   1991   %Change   1992  |%Change   1993  |'oChange,
Installation (000 $                              _               _      ___.                  _ -
- Residential     1.372    1.372      0,O/%  1.163    -15 35'   1.500     29,03'   1.649      9 9%
- Commercial      2.039    2.039      0,0Q    1.996     -2,11%   2.600    30,3    2.858      9,9%
Basic Rent (mont l!y)   _        _         _                  _
- Residential     4.220    7.090     68,00/  12.693     79,03'  14.851    17,00/  20.900     40,70/
- Commercial     12.170   21.979     80,60   35.943     63,53'  42.053    17,001  50.100     19,1 %
Measured Service (per minu                               _      _   __                    _    -
- Residential     21,73      300   1280,6     335      11 ,7%    392     1 7,00/%    430     9,7%'
Commercial      32,59      212    550,5      335     5B,0%/    392      17,0     430      97%/
Domestic LD c/    1.243    2.781    123,80/   3.750     34,83'   4.389    17,0%    4.800      9,40o
International LD d   9.007    7.950    -11,70/   9.663  21,63'  10.437     8,00/   11.080     6,2%'
World LD e/      22.213   17.843    -19,73'  18.951      6,20/4  20.467    8,0 /c  21.760     6,30'
a/ 1993 Mex$ are expressed in old currency
b/ Price per minute after a number of free calls.
c! 3 min. conference, 300 kms. distance.                                                                    >
d/ 3 min. conference Mexico City - U.S.



TABLF 2
TELMEX. EVOLUTION OF TARIFFS BY SERVICE
(Constant 1992 Mex$) a/
Item              1989     1990  -,'Change   1991  0%Change   1992  %Change   1993  %Change
Installation (000 $      _                              ___
- Residential      2.463    1.944    -21,0/c   1.343    -30,9?/:_  1.500        11 ,7,b  1.541 ___2,7,
- Commercial       3658     2.888    -21,0D/a   2.306    -20,2'   2.600    12,8/c   2.671     2,7
Basic Rent (mont
- Residential      7.573    10.045    32,7/   14.661    46,00/  14.851      1,3%0_ 19.533     31,5%/
- Commercial      21.839   31.141     42,6%/  41.517     33,3%/  42.053      1,3%   46.822     11 ,39o
Measured Service (per minu                           .     _  _ __
- Residential        39       425    990,1 c    387     -9,0T o    392      1, 3% __  402      2,59/
- Commercial         58       300    413,6_    387      28,8T      392      1,3%_   402        2,5%
Domestic LD        2-230    3.940     76,7/    4.332     9,9    4.389      1,3%0   4.486      2,29/
International LD    16.163   11.263    -30,3/   11.162   -0,9   10.437    -6,501  10.355     -0,8
World LD          39.861    25.280    -36,6/4  21.890    -13,4/  20.467   -6,5%   20.336     -0,6o/
at Adjusted by Domestic Retail Price Index. A 7% increase has been assumed for 1993.
x
w.



TABLE 3
TELMEX. COMPLIANCE WITH QUALITY NORMS
_ 1990        1991  ___         1992      _      1993
ITEM     - - - -             BASE    Actual   Target   Actual   Target   Target
Service Continuity Index       80,20    86,27    83,42    89,52    86,19    87,07
_Lt,CON) ____                          __
._______                .___ _____  ______                            ______
- % lines with failure         10,00     9,43      8,00     9,12     7,00      6,00
-  same, day line repair      45,00    52,94    48,00    68,81    50,00    50,00
%3 day line repair          82,00    90,96    86,00    93,23    90,00    91,00
-    -    -    -    -    -                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ON
Service Quality Index          91,08    92,36    91,82    94,35    92,54    92,90
(ICAL)
_C L         _ _  __     __  _ _   _  _ __   _ _  __    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _
- % Dial tone in 4 secs.       97,00    98,46    97,00    99,50    97,00    98,00
- % Local calls completed first tr   92,00    93,45    92,00    96,35    94,00    94,00
- % LD calls completed first try  90,00    92,46    92,00    96,02    92,00    92,00
- % Special operators answerinq
in less than 10 secs.      90,00    83,11     90,00    83,62    91,00    91,00
-% Public Booths in service    87,00    90,84    88,00    91,73    89,00    90,00
Source: Actual Data from SCT. 1992 data is preliminary.
Targets: TELMEX revised concession contract. Annex A. Aug.10, 1990.



TABILE 4
TELM,EX. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES
(million new Mex$, dec. 1992)
Items                          1989     1990 |%Change    1991 %Change    1992| %Change
_ Operational Fleceipts      10.429   15.043    44,2%   18.216    21,1 0   20.708    13,T'/o
International Long Distance  4.383    4.370    -0,3%    4.207    -3,79/   4.394     4,4/
_Domes_c Lorg Distance       3.424    5.347    56,2%    6.628    24,00/c  7.196      8,60/
- Local Service              2.099    4.753   126,4%    6.636    39,69/   8.285    24,8%/
- Others________               523      573      9,6%     745    30,0/    833    11 .8%/
Operational Expenditures      6.942    9.613    38,5%   10.262      6,89/  11.769    14,7%/
- Wages and related costs    3.846    3.782     11,7%    3.939     4,29/   4.830    22,6% Y
-_gperation and rnaintenance  1.345    1.987    47,7%    2.396    20,69/   2.899    21,00./o
_D_epreciation                1.663    1.702      2,3%    2.294    34,89/   2.213     -3,5%/
- Telephone tax                 88    2.142  2334,10%   1.633   -23,8%/   1.827     11,9/
Net Operational Results       3.487    5.430    55,7%    7.954    46,5Yo   8.939     12,40/
Non Operational Results (net) a/  43    (201)  -567,4%    1.685  -938,3'    697    -58,6k
Pre-tax Profit                3.530    5.229    48,1%    9.639     84,39/   9.636    -0,0/
Tax on profit and ,,       _      .                     _       ____
Worker's Participation  _    1.115       831    -25,5%    1.819   118,90   1.664     -8,5o/
Profit after Tax and WP       2.415    4.398    82,10/   7.820    77,80/   7.972      1,90/
x
a/ Includes financial costs
Source: TELMEX, Memorias Anuales 1990, 1991 and Preliminary Statements (not audited) for 1992



69                          Annex 4
THE EFFECTS OF ROAD FREIGHT DEREGULATION
1.    No comprehensive study has yet been done regarding the impact of
deregulation of freight services in Mexico. In what follows some
circumstantial evidence on some of the main effects detected so far is
presented.
2.    Entry. The opening of the market through the elimination of the
concession system had as a first obvious effect a large increase in the
registration of truck operators. In late 1988, 3,150 companies and 36,000
owner-operators were authorized to provide service on federal highways. As
of October 1992, a total of 131,000 new permits had been approved. Of
these, 25,900 were requests for fleet expansion by existing firms, 19,100
permits were given to legalize existing operators; and, 86,000 permits were
for new operators. According to SCr, the large number of new operators
reflect the fact that many industries decided to utilize their own private fleet
for some public transportation and more importantly, independent truck
operators who used to "buy" entrance through the old concessionaire
companies found that with deregulation they could simply apply for permits.
A direct consequence of this ease of entry is that many large and medium
trucking firms that used to operate on the basis of 'selling" permits have
broken up.
3.    Similarly, in the area of intermodal transportation, where formerly
one semi-public company, Multimodal, had the monopoly of operations, now
22 new companies have been licensed to provide services. In fact,
Multimodal ceased operations in 1990 and is now in the process of
liquidation. Many of the former employees of Multimodal joined the new
companies, or are owners.
4.    Only about four freight centers, out of twenty, still remain in
operation after their utilization was no longer compulsory. This is a clear
indication of the inefficiency of many of the past activities.
5.    A related phenomenon, which is attributable to deregulation, is that of
the large increase in new truck sales. Production data indicate that in 1992,
some 25,000 trucks and trailers were put on the market, representing a large
increase when compared to earlier years (22,000 in 1991, 13,000 in 1990 and
4,700 average for 1987 - 1989). These new units reflect further investment in
the sector and will contribute to the reduction of the average age of the
Mexican fleet (estimated at 12 years).
6.    Services. The abolition of restrictions on route assignments has
reportedly increased the alternatives for cargo transport. Where previously
many shippers had to go through Mexico City for interstate trade, nowadays
the routing is direct. The concern with the possibility of reduced services to
low accessibility areas has proven to be unfounded. Also deregulation has



70                               Annex 4
increased diversification of activities by trucking companies. For example,
refrigerated containers and other specialized equipment are now widely
available for cargo transportation. In the area of intermodal transportation the
presence of new companies, mainly cargo agents, have been able to supply
"door to door" services and to facilitate the exports of products such as fresh
fruit which depends on the timely availability of transportation services.
Lastly, as an indication of the quality of the new services being provided, the
implementation by shippers of "just in time" services and other quality
control measures in transportation has been increasingly reported.
7.     Tariffs. An important expected consequence of deregulation is the
alignment of prices with costs. Furthermore, in a competitive setting there
are strong pressures for cost rationalization. Therefore important decreases in
tariffs are to be expected from deregulation. SCT collects monthly sample
data on contracts which originate in Mexico City. These data show that
prices throughout 1990 and 1992 were down by some 33% in real terms
relative to the official rates of December of 1987, the last date these were
issued. It may be possible, however, that most of this real decline may have
occurred before deregulation.' What the data actually show is a slight
average increase (1.1 %) of real rates between 1990 and 1991, and a decrease
of 5.3% between 1991 and 1992. There is also some indication that rates
show a substantial variation, for similar products and distances which might
be a natural effect of further adjustments in competitive forces. In
consequence it seems roughly that tariffs have experienced only a slight
decline since deregulation.2
8.     Consistent with the above, SCT estimates of trucking operating costs,
which were formerly used for tariff setting, show a decline of 32% per ton-
km since December of 1987. These cost reductions reflect only changes in
real prices of inputs. It is likely that competition has promoted additional real
cost savings through better cost controls (e.g. gas usage), requirements for
improved quality of parts and services (e.g. tires), and reduced labor
problems due to the increased number of owner-operators.
Other related measures.
9.     Intrastate regulations. The lack of alignment of state regulations to the
new deregulated federal environment, was perceived during project
1.     Domestic inflation between Dec. of 1987 and Dec. of 1989, the month before tariff
liberalization, was 81.6% per annum. In this period no official tariff adjustments were made.
It is likely, in spite of reports of important variations between official and real tariffs, that an
important part of this real decline was absorbed by the trucking sector.
2.     The adjustment process of prices and costs to the new deregulated environment is a
long one. It has been reported that in the U.S. this process took from 1980, the date of
deregulation, to 1989. See Terry, John, Trucking Deregulation in Mexico. (IDB Mission
Report. November 19, 1989.



71                            Annex 4
preparation as the source of further inefficiencies. This concern was shared
by the Mexican government in its Letter of Development Policy (Annex 1A).
To date, however, no progress has been reported relative to establishing
agreements to promote transport deregulation at the State levels. As about
95 % of traffic is carried on the Federal network, no particular problems have
been reported.
10.   Border issues and NAFTA. A long standing transportation issue
between the U.S. and Mexico has been the inefficiency in border transfers of
freight. Power units are not allowed to cross beyond certain terminal areas,
at which points trailers are transferred. For this, drayage operations have
been set up which coupled with customs delays contribute to inefficiency and
higher costs. Both countries have reached agreement on this issue in the
context of the NAFTA negotiations. Essentially the agreement involves the
opening up of the border states to truckers of each country by the third year
after Treaty ratification. At the seventh year all territories in both countries
will be opened. This will allow free and continuous flow of cargo between its
origin and destiny between both countries reducing unnecessary and costly
delays at the frontier.3
11.   Reorganization of SCT. The need for organizational change and the
various areas to be addressed regarding the new role of SCT were evaluated
during project preparation. To date, three reorganization processes have been
carried out within the Directorate General of Road Transport. Through
voluntary retirement programs and transfers within SCT, personnel has been
reduced by some 350 people. However, some important problems, not well
identified at the time of appraisal, have emerged. Basically, the new
deregulated environment has given SCT an important role in the development
of policies, programs and norms regarding the transport sector. For these
purposes new skills are needed in technical and professional areas and they
have not been available. Examples of the new roles that have been assumed
and which need to be developed and strengthened include: negotiating the
NAFTA agreement, developing norms for transportation of hazardous
materials, developing regulations for weight control, support of transport
organizations, privatization of supervisory activities, hiring and supervision
of policy and sector studies, and updating safety norms in roads. Personnel
policy within the public sector in Mexico and in SCT have limited the ability
of the Road Transport Directorate to hire appropriate personnel. Even today
a large number of people who used to be responsible for issuing permits
remain in place, even though this function has been greatly simplified and
transferred to regional centers. At the same time, budget and positions have
3.    Additional measures included in the NAFTA agreement that will affect the
transportation sector include the gradual opening of foreign ownership in transportation
companies, the phasing out of the tariff barriers for truck imports and the recommendation to
harmonize safety standards, weight and size requirements for trucks to facilitate cross border
operations.



7 2                           Annex 4
not been available at the technical and professional levels. No doubt this
should be an area of Bank concern and of future support and strengthening.
The development of appropriate norms and policies in many areas are a
requirement for the development of an efficient transportation market.
12.   Customs. Custom procedures have been greatly simplified, implying
important reductions in through-time for international shipments. The
utilization of random checking procedures is widely recognized as a major
improvement.4 There remain, however, problems associated with the
presence of licensed custom agents and their use of specific transportation
companies, which limits the ability of shippers to select among the available
alternatives.
13.   Elements of conflict. In this deregulation process there are clearly
some agents that lose; namely, those who had enjoyed earlier privileges
under protected markets. There are numerous reports of bankruptcies of
formerly important transportation companies. The large pressure from
competition, coupled with the reforms regarding tax accountability, has
meant that operating margins have been cut and that rents have probably
disappeared. Numerous businessmen complain openly of unfair competitive
practices by new entrants by offering very lows bids for contracts that
afterwards cannot be complied with. Basically, pricing policies might be
reflecting only short-term costs. However, as indicated above, available
estimates seem to imply that truckers are charging, on average, all long-term
costs and therefore current prices are sustainable. A deeper study would be
required for assessing the real situation. In this setting it is of no surprise
that proposals are being made by organized trucking companies for the
reestablishment of "minimum regulated tariffs". In addition, strike pressures
have meant the reconsideration of some recent measures regarding the
payment of an annual fee to finance a fund for road maintenance, and will
probably mean a reduction in toll charges on public roads. Mounting
pressure, if successful, is likely to involve the risk of reconsideration of some
of the measures taken.
4.    Many of the reforms of custom procedures were supported under the Export
Adjustment Loan (Loan 3309-ME) of 1991.



7 3                              Annex 5
ACTION PLAN FOR ROAD SAFETY
MAIN PROPOSED ACTIVMES AND COMPLIANCE STATUS
The main actions proposed in the Action Plan for Road Safety and
their current status include:
A. Legal Aspects
Actions                         Status                      Comments
The obligation to use           Implemented in              Little compliance
safety seat belts in            1990.                       observed to date
cars and trucks.
The development of              Reglamento ready
norms regarding the             to be issued in
transportation of               early 1993.
hazardous materials.
Development of                  Manuals,
system to control the           instructions, and
hazardous material              training in place
regulation.                     at the Federal
Road Police.
Regulations                     Reglamento                  Under discussion
concerning weights              drafted.                    for implementation
and axle loads.                                             in 1993.
Issue regulations               Implemented
regarding liabilities           1992, but
to third parties for            suspended shortly
accidents.                      afterwards.
1/     SCT indicated that the requirement for compulsory insurance policy against third party
liabilities was rcquested on all permit renewals starting November 1992. Hawever, at that
time insurance companies increased ongoing rates to about MexS9 million per year, causing
SECOFI to suspend this obligation until further analysis can be done.



74                               Annex 5
Develop a data bank              Bank exists for all          Penalties stiff.
on traffic offenders            registered truck
and increase the                 operators.
penalities for re-
occurrence.
Sanction companies               Suspended.                   Further analysis
that hire drivers                                             indicated that this
without permits.                                              was not a major
problem.
Strictly supervise              Permanent
regulations                     activities of
concerning                       SCT's Directorate
preventive medicine              General for
actions and                      Preventive
strengthening of                Medicine in
public campaigns                 Transportation
regarding alcohol                (DGMPT).
and drug abuse.
To coordinate                    State commissions            Effectiveness
actions with states.            for road safety               unknown.
exist that
incorporate
representatives of
the Federal
institutions.
Increase road                    Budget for road
vigilance and                    police increased
regulate high speed              steadily over the
on accident prone                last years.
roads.
Review and update                No advance
of the Traffic                   reported to date.
Reglamento.
2/     The DGMPT has developed and implements regular activities for federal public transport,
related to: issuing medical norms and testing of applicants for truck driving permits, on-the-
spot checks for adequate medical conditions of drivers, developing campaigns for road safety
education directed to drivers, doing research in preventive medicine areas and inspection and
sanction of compliance with existing rcgulations.



75                          Annex 5
B. Driver Programs
Actions                    Status                  Comments
Design and                 Permanent
implement public           activities carried
campaigns for the          out by the Road
prevention of              Police and the
accidents, the use of      DGMPT.
safety belts and
accident prevention
during peak traffic
time.
Design and                 Permanent
implement                  activities of the
educational                DGMPT.
programs for
continuous medical
checkups of truck
drivers.
Design and                 Permanent
implement                  activities of the
educational                D.G. of Road
programs dealing           Transportation.
with vehicle
conditions and safety
operation.
Creation of a              In design phase.        To be provided by
National Center for                                the private sector.
Training.
Increase the               Unknown.
availability of
Emergency Centers
in roads and carry
out first aid
campaigns.



76                          Annex 5
C. Vehicle Conditions
Actions                    51tu                     Comments
Evaluate norms             Unknown.
regarding
manufacturing of
vehicles and parts.
Withdraw from              Not implemented.        Presumably not a
service inadequate                                 cost effective
units, implement                                   measure.
plan for vehicle
inspection controls.
Continue and               Permanent action
strengthen the use of      by DGMPT.,
medical exams to
issue driving licenses
to truck operators.
Review of standards        New licensing
for granting driving       requirements to
licenses.                  include driver
skill tests to be
implemented in
1993.
Implement the              Control stations
control of emission        operating
standards.                 throughout the
country.



7 7                         Annex 5
D. Road Conditions
Actions                    Status                  Comments
Improve road               Study on black
conditions at critical     spots and
points.                    remedial measures
completed.
Program in place
for execution
1993-1996.
Update norms               Unknown.
concerning road
design.
Develop a program          In the design
for rest areas on          stage.
highways.
E. Road Accidents Statistics
Actions                    Sa                      Comments
Properly define            Federal Road            Since 1992,
sources of data,           Policy                  information
classification             responsibility.          systems
criteria, unifying                                  automatized to
reporting data and                                  assure prompt and
coordination                                        accurate reporting
measures for follow                                 and consolidation
up of accidents.                                    of data.



78
REFERENCES'
1.    Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo. El proceso de privatizacion en
Mexico: un estudio de caso. Varios autores. Departamento de
Desarrollo Econ6mico y Social. Serie Deocumentos de Trabajo 118.
Marzo de 1992.
2.    Casasuz, Carlos: Privatization of Telecommunications. The Case of
Mexico. mimeo, no date.
3.    Ochoa, Felipe y Asociados, S.C. Evaluacion de los sistemas de
costos e integracion de un modelo sistematizado de tarifas.
Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico. Subdireccion General de
Planeacion y Sistemas. Noviembre 1990.
4.    Tandon, Panjak: Mexico. Background. TELEMEX. AEROMEXICO.
MEXICANA. World Bank Conference on the "Welfare
Consequences of Selling Public Enterprises. Case studies from Chile,
Malaysia, Mexico and the U.K.". June 11-12, 1992. Washington
D.C.
5.    Terry, John. Trucking Deregulation in Mexico. Mission Report.
November 19, 1989. In: (Road Transport Technical Report, Annex
1).
6.    Townsend, Peter: Mexico: Reform of the Telecommunication
Sector. Draft, February 12, 1993.
7.    World Bank. Mexico. Transport Pricing Study. Report No. 6580-
ME. Projects Department. Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office. February 20, 1987.
8.    World Bank. Mexico. Study of Selected Issues in Trans2ort.
Technical Department. Latin America and the Caribbean Regional
Office. June 27, 1988.
9.    World Bank. Mexico. Staff Appraisal Report. Lazaro Cardenas -
Central Mexico Corridor Study. Report No. 7964-ME. June 30,
1989.
10.   World Bank. Mexico. Transport Sector Policy Paper. 1989.
11.   World Bank. Mexico. Road Transport and Telecommunications
Sector Adjustment Project. Road Transport Technical Report.
Volume I of II. March 5, 1990.
1.    Part I of the PCR is drawn from the full length technical report (March 5, 1993)
produced by the PCR mission and available in LAC files.



79
12.   World Bank. Mexico. Road Transport and Telecommunications
Sector Adjustment Project. Telecommunications Technical Report.
Volume II of II. March 5, 1990.
13. World Bank. Report to the Board for a Road Transport and
Telecommunications Section Adjustment Project. Report No. P-5254-
ME. May 3, 1990.
14.   World Bank. Memorandum and Recommendation to the Executive
Directors for a Telecommunications Technical Assistance Project.
Report No. P-5259-ME. May 3, 1990.
15. World Bank. Mexico Telecommunications: One year (plus) after the
reform program. mimeo, April 30, 1992. ASTIF.
16.   World Bank. Mexico. Public Enterprise Reform Loan. Loan 3086-
ME. Program Performance Audit Report. Report No. 10849.
Operations Evaluation Department. June 30, 1992.
17.   World Bank. Trade Facilitation and Transport Reform. By
Malise Dick. Report No. 25. Regional Studies Program. Latin
America and the Caribbean Technical Department. September 1992.
18.   World Bank. Mexico. Transport Air Ouality Management Project
for the Mexico City Metropolitan Area. Staff Appraisal Report.
Report No. 10673-ME. November 20, 1992.
19.   World Bank. The State of the Mexican Economy. Mimeo,
January 4, 1993.
20.   World Bank. Mexico. Fourth Railway Project. Loan 1929-ME.
Project Performance Audit Report. Draft, February 1993.



