Docnment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repoit No. P-5254-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt380 MILLION
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (BANOBRAS)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
ROAD TRANSPORT AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
MAY 3, 1990
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Mexican peso (tMex$)
On March 30, 1990 the exchanige rates stood at:
tlS$1 - MEX$ 2,719 (Controlled market)
US$1 = MEX$ 2,759 (Free market)
The controlled exchange rate' is currently
being devalued by one peso a day.
FISC4L YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGH3TS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)  =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 ton (t)          =  1.000 kilograms (kg) = 2.205 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)        =  0.26 gallons (gal)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BANOBRAS           =  Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos
(Governmenit owned development bank)
DFI                =  Direct Foreign Investment
FHN                   Federal Highway Network
GATT               =  General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
1CB                =  International Competitive Bidding
IDB                5  Inter-American Development Bank
MULTIMODAL            A semi public company for transportation of
containers
NDP                   National Development Program, 1989 - 1994
PACTO                 Evonomic Solidarity Pact
PECE               =  Pact for Stabilization and Growth
PEMEX                 PetrOleos Mexicanos (Government-owned
National Oil Company)
SCT                =  Secretaria de Comunicaciones y fransporte
(Secretariat of Communications and Transport)
SEDUE              =  Secretaria de Desarrolle Urbano y Ecologia
(Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology)
SHCP               =  Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
(Secretariat of Finance)
SPP                   Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto
(Secretariat of Planning and Budgeting)
TELMEX             =  Tel4fonos de Mexico S.A. de C.V. (Mexico's
telephone company, 512 publicly owned)
TELECOMM           =  Telecomunicaciones de MOxico (A decentralized
state entity responsible for the basic
transmissiotn network and telex and telegraph
services)



FOR OMCL41 USE ONL'k
MEXICO
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i -ii
INTRODUCTION  .                 .................        .. .......          1
PART I -THE ECONOMY   ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . ...  3
A.  Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         3
B.  Macroeconemic Stabilization   . . . . . . . . . . . .         3
C.  Rationalized Private Sector Incentives  . . . . . . .         5
D.  Reorientation of Public Spending  . . . . . . . . . .         6
E.  External Debt Reduction Agreement   . . . . . . . . .         7
F.  Macroeconomic Projection                                      8
PART II - SECTORAL CONTEXT   ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    10
A.  Introduction    ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    10
B.  Road Transport  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
Trucking Entry Restrictions .  . . . . . . . . . . .    12
The Government Program to Eliminate Trucking Entry
Restrictions  . . . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
Official Trucking Tariffs .  . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
Automotive Industry .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
Highway Safety and Environment .   . . . . . . . . .    17
Pricing, Cost Recovery and: Taxation .  . . . . . . .    19
Road Maintenance and Efficiency .  . . . . . . . . .    20
Re organization of SCT .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
C.  The Telecomunications Sector .  . . . . . . . . . . .   21
The Mexican Telecommunications Sector .  . . . . . .    21
Sector Issues  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    22
The Goverunment's Telecommunications Program   . . .       26
PART III - BANK STRATEGY   ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    27
A.  Government Strategy   ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    27
B.  Country Assistance Strategy .   . . . . . . . . . . .   28
C.  Bank Rationale for the Proposed Loan .  . . . . . . .   29
D.  Transportation  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    30
E.  Telecommunications ................ .    32
PART IV - THE PROPOSED LOAN .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
A.  Background .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
B.  Loan Objectives, Benefits and Risk3 .   . . . .              34
C.  The Borrower, the Guarantor and Project
Implementation  ....  .      .  .  .      .      .  .  .    .    36
D.  Disbursements, Procurement, Administration
and Auditing  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    36
E.  Loan Effectiveness and Conditions of Tranche Release         37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS   . .          .  . . . . . . . . . . . .    38
A.  Sectoral Composition of Bank Lending  . . . . . . . .    38
Agriculture  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    38
Trade   .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .  39
Industry and Finance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    39
Infrastructure and Energy  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    39
Housing and Others   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    40
Social Sectors and Environment   . . . . . . . . . .    40
B.  IFC Operations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    41
PART VI - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF   . . . . . . . . . . . .    41
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  42
ANNEXES
I.  Mexico - Policy Matrix    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  43
II.  Mexico - Status of Bank and IFC Operations          . . . . . . . . .  47
III.  Mexico - Supplementary Loan Data Sheet  . . . . . . . . . . . .  49
IV.  Letter of Develnvpment Policy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  51
V.  Economic Indicators   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  54
MAP2 IBRD 22252



MEXICO
ROAD TRANSPORT AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:             Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios P(blicos, S.N.C.
(BANOBRAS).
Guarantor:            United Mexican States.
Beneficiary:          United Mexican States.
Amount:               US$380 million equivalent.
Terms:                Repayable in 17 years, including 5 years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
Obiective:            The proposed loan is part of a program of Bank
support to the Mexican Government's plans tco promote
structural reforms so as to resume sustainable
economic growth. The loan supports a comprehensive
structural reform program in the road transport and
telecommtuications sectors which will improve their
efficiency benefitting all users and, in particular,
firms which conduct trade related business, for
which commtuication services are an important input.
Description:          The proposed loan supports a program of deregulation
in the trucking sector, and a program of
privatization and regulatory reform that will
promote competition in the telecommunications
ector. Pricing and taxation distortions in the two
sectors are being eliminated, and the public sector
institutions responsible for the oversight of the
sectors are being restructured. The loan also
includes measures to improve highway safety, and to
monitor compliance by trucks with air pollution
standards. Under a parallel loan, technical
assistance would be provided to strengthen the
public sector agency responsible for the formulation
of telecommunications policy and for sector
regulation.
Benefits and Risks: By providing an appropriate institutional and
regulatory framework, the proiect is expected to
spur private investment and competition, thus
serving to increase the efficiency of communications
services and--in the case of telecommunications--to
greatly expand its coverage. Resource allocation
would be improved through greater reliance on market
forces for pricing and by a realignment of the
fiscal treatment of the sectors. A project-related



- ii -
risk relates to the Government's ability to fend off
any internal political opposition to the terms or
management of the deal for the privatization of the
telephone company, TELMEX. Another risk is the lack
of staff with experience in regulation and the
chance of mistakes as a new regulatory framework for
telecommunications is developed and put in place.
On the macroeconomic front there is also a risk that
the growth program may be put in jeopardy by
declining oil prices, rising interest rates or
protectionist trends in the trade policies of
Mexico's major trading partners. Project related
risks seem manageable, particularly since the
significant upfront actions taken by the Government
reflect a strong commitment to the reform process.
The likelihood of derailment of the economic program
is also felt to be small, given the success already
achieved in economic stabilization, debt reduction
and resumption of growth. In any case, the
substantial conditionality of the Bank's adjustment
loan portfolio provides for early warning signals on
a worsening trend in domestic policy or in the
country's external environment, and would thus
enable the Bank to consider timely measures to
protect its portfolio and longer term interests in
Mexico.
Disbursements:       The proposed loan would be disbursed against
eligible general imports in two tranches of US$190
million each. The first tranche of the loan would
be available upon loan effectiveness. The second
tranche would be released after November 15, 1990
upon fulfillment of specific conditions in all key
areas supported under the loan and verification of
the consistency of the macroeconomic policy
framework. Disbursement of the loan is expected to
be completed by June 30, 1991.
Retroactive          US$76 million would be made available for
Financing:         retroactive financing of eligible expenditures
incurred from February 1, 1990.
Rate of Return:      Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:   This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal
Report.
Schedule of
Disbursements:
US$ Million                     FY90              FY91
Annual Amount                      190.0            190.0
Cumulative Amount                 190.0             380.0



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
RPJPoRT AnD RCIonation OF Tax FRSsIDzxT TO Th=   =uETI
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED ROAD TRANSPORT AND
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO
BANCO RACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
INTRODUCTION
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Pdblicos, S.N.C. (BANOBRAS),
for the equivalent of US$380 million in support of a progra. for road
transport deregulation and of privatization and regulatory reform in
telecommunications. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including
five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
2.     In the latter years of the de La Madrid administration (1983-
1988) the roles assigned by Mexico to the public and private sectors
underwent a significant change, which is being deepened further by the
Salinas administration (1988-1993). The stratv-y of the seventies that
relied on protectionism and public sector led L.owth has now been
abandoned, and the Government has emba!ked on a wide ranging program of
reforms that promotes competition and reduces public sector involvement
in business activities. It has also divested itself of a large nuw:ber
of public enterprises, while implementing policies to increase the
efficiency of those still under public o-wnership, and has moved very far
in the deregulation of trade, foreign it,vestment, the financial sector
and industry, and on the elimination of subsidies. These reforms dd up
to one of the most substantive and compiehensive programs of
reorientation of economic policy towards zeliance on market fore   that
has been carried out in developing countries in recent years.
3.     The Bank has supported these changes and has maintained a very
close policy dialogue with the Government on these matters. In i-te
1989 three adjustment loans, for a total amount of $1.5 billion, were
approved by the Board to support the Government's programs in the
financial sector, public enterprise reform and industrial sector. The
proposed operation is part of a follow-up stage of adjustment which
focuses on sectors of strategic importance because of their linkages to
most areas of economic activity. In addition to this project, the
lending program also comprises operations to support deepening of
reforms in trade, public sector enterprises, agriculture and, possibly,
the financial sector.
4.     The proposed project would seek to extend the process of
adjustment to the transportation and telecommunications sectors by
supporting policies that would improve their efficiency, benefitting all
users and in particular firms which conduct trade related business, for
which communication services are an important input through:



- 2 -
(a)   changes to the regulatory framework:  (i) by eliminating
barriers to competition In road transportation, as there is
evidence that such barriers have imposed heavy costs to the
economy and have failed to achieve the objectives for which
they had been designed, (ii) by defining the ruies for
private sector participation in the telecommunications
sector, promoting competition and safeguarding the interest
of constumers in those areas where a private monopoly
operation is warranted;
(b)   improving the allocation of investments by eliminating
pricing distortions: (i) in road transportation, by
allowing prices to be determined in the market and adjusting
the price of competing modes to marginal costs, (ii) in
telecommunications, by significantly reducing cross
subsidies and introducing changes to the fiscal regime to
align the tax treatment of the sector with the treatment now
afforded to other economic activities;
(c)   sasisting the Government of Mexico to develop programs to
attract private investment to the telecommunications sector,
so as to achieve ambitious targets of sector growth and
modernization; and
(d)   promoting complementary policy measures that would, in
general, enhance the efficiency of road transportation and
telecommunications services.
In addition, through a parallel Technical Assistance Loan, the Bank
would support the institutional development of the agency responsible
for the regulation of telecommunications, so as to improve its
capability to discharge its functions (which would be reformulated).
5.     The measures outlined above fit well witb the development strategy
of the Government of Mexico. As the success of Mexico's stabilization
program progressively consolidates and the debt issue is being resolved,
the priority of economic policy has shifted towards the attainment of
sustainable growth. This objective, in the context of an economy that
has been opened to external competition, will be assisted by the removal
of barriers to efficiency in sectors, such as transportation and
telecommunications, that play a vital supporting role to almost all
business activities, particularly trade. Improved transportation and
telecommunications should facilitate factor mobility, enhance
competition and assist the development of new export activities. In
addition, increased investment in these sectors, spurred by a framework
more favorable to the private sector, will also contribute to economic
growth.



PART I - THE ECONOMY
A. Background
6.     Between 1950 and 1974, Itexico enjoyed a remarkable period of high
gr&wth, low inflation and moderate external debt accumulation. Real
growth averaged 6.4%, and inflation was in single digits throughout the
period. This era of fiscal conservatism came to an abrupt end in the
early seventies. Rapidly expanding government involvement in the
economy pushed up the rate of economic growth. However, increasing
government expenditure was not matched by rising public sector revenues.
As a result. the inflation tax and external debt became increasingly
important sources of finance. At the same time. a decline in private
savings incentives (real interest rates turned sharply downward)
prevented a matching increase in private savings, external debt thus
increased, the increased oil revenues notwithstanding. The period of
single digit inflation ended in 1973, the real exchange rate-' started
to appreciate and the accumulation of external debt accelerated above
the GNP growth rate. A serious, but comparatively brief, financial and
economic crisis in 1976 termindted following major oil discoveries in
1977. The ensuing prosperity lasted until 1982, when soaring domestic
inflation, falling international oil prices, rising world interest
rates, and massive capital flight led to a refusal by external creditors
to roll over Mexico's short-term debt and forced a subsequent suspension
of payments of interest on the external debt.
7.     Over the 1982-88 period, economic growth ground to a virtual halt,
accompanied by sharply falling living standaris, deterioration of
infrastructure, high inflation, and loss of investor confiden.ce. To
reverse Mexico's declining fortunes the most important changes needed
weres (a) macroeconomic stability, (b) a rationalized set of incentives
for private sector investment, (c) a reallocation of public spending,
both to shore up a crumbling infrastructure in support of private
sector-led growth and to alleviate the impact of adjustment on the poor,
and (d) a medium-term financing plan capable of removing the specter of
an unsustainable overhang of debt. In each of these areas, the Mexican
Government has achieved notable progress.
B. Macroeconomic Stabilization
8.     The onset of the financial and economic crisis of 1982 brought in
its wake explosive inflationary and balance of payments difficulties
whose effects had been largely repressed during the years leading up to
the crisis. Initial strong fiscal and monetary adjustment efforts were
alternately not sustained for a sufficiently long period (1983-85) or
undermined by external shocks such as the collapse in international oil
prices (1986). Inflation, rather than slowing down, accelerated,
1/       The raal exchange rate is defined as the price of foreign goods
relative to domestic goods. Appreciation means a decline in this
relative price.



- 4 -
partially in response to the sharp real devaluation of the exchange rate
necessitated by the 1986 downturn in the terms of trade. The subsequent
de facto targeting of the real exchange rate, together with an increase
in the frequency of wage and cost adjustments, introduced an element of
inherent instability into the system, culminating in a run on the peso
in the last quarter of 1987 and triple-digit inflation.
9.     The Government responded with the "Economic Solidarity Pact"
(Pacto), an agreement between business, labor, and government which
called for accelerated structural reform, further tightening of fiscal
and monetary policy, a freeze of minimum wages and of the prices of
basic public and private sector prices and, the cornerstone of the
"Pacto", a freeze of the nominal exchange rate against the U.S. dollar.
This partial freeze was extended at three-month intervals through the
end of 1988, and renewed, with some modifications, by the new Mexican
Administration under the name of 'PECE" (Pact for Stabilization and
Growth) through March 1990. The main adjustments brought about under
PECE were catch-up increases in selected public sector tariffs and in
prices of key inputs, a two-stage 152 cumulative adjustment in the
minimum wage, and a daily adjustment of the exchange rate of about one
peso against the U.S. dollar. On December 1, 1989 fuel prices and some
utility rates were increased, minimum (but not contractual) wages were
raised by 102, and the 'PECE" was further extended to the end of June
1990. However, some further adjustment of public sector prices,
including a major restructuring of the rates for telephone services
(para. 63), took place during January 1990.
10.    Performance under the "Pacto" and 'PECE" has been highly
satisfactory. Mlxico has fully observed all of the adjusted performance
criteria specified in its Extended Arrangement vjith the IMF for 1989
(excepting for fourth quarter targets on net domestic assets and net
international reserves, for which waivers were granted) and obtained
Fund approval for its 1990 macroeconomic program (para. 108). In trade,
the Government had originally committed to a three-year program of
reforms supported by the Bank. These reforms were designed inter alia
to lower the maximum import tariff to 302 ad valorem by the end of 1988.   '
In fact, during the first month of the Pacto, December 1987, the tariff
was lowered to a 202 maximum, i.e., 10 percentage points lower than
originally agreed and one year ahead of schedule. Such efforts were all
the more noteworthy, given the negative budgetary impact of further
declines in international oil prices and increasingly high real interest
rates on foreign debt throughout much of 1988-89. The shift in exchange
rate policy at the beginning of 1989 was instrumental in bringing about
a small real depreciation of the peso during the first six months of the
year, reversing a trend toward appreciation throughout much of 1988.
11.    The fiscal measures, backed by the temporary exchange rate freeze
and an array of formal and informal wage and price controls, have had a
dramatic success in reducing the rate of inflation from 1592 in 1987 to
about 202 in 1989. At the same time, the economy has shown encouraging
signs of economic recovery, led by a strong resurgence of private
investment, which increased by around 102 in real terms. In 1989, GDP



is estimated to have grown by 2.92 in real terms, as manufacturing
production rose substantially, while mining and agricultural output
declined. During the fi-sc quarter of 1990 inflation rose beyond what
had been planned. The s3sective liberalization of price controls on
some intermediate and farm products, together with adjustments in public
tariffs for gasoline, power, and water toward the end of 1989. led to
this temporary resurgence of inflation. After rising to 3.8? in
December and 4.8? in January, the rate of consumer price inflation
receded to 1.8? in March and 0.8? during the first half of April. Thus,
on the basis of current trends, inflation could return to a base level
averaging around one percent monthly during the remainder of 1990. For
the year, it is expected that inflation would range somewhere between
20? and 25Z. Financial investors have already responded positively,
bidding down the rates on Treasury bills from 47? annually in January
(up from 35? in mid-1989) to around 43? currently. There is also
evidence that the merchandise trade deficit has been declining as import
growth during the first quarter slowed to a ten percent annual rate
(from nearly 18 percent in 1989), while exports growth improved. The
Government also recently announced that the extension of the PECE
program would be negotiated with the private sector and implemented
somewhat earlier than originally expected, perhaps by the end of June
1990.
C. Rationalized Private Sector Incentives
12.    Mexico has transformed itself into one of the most open economies
in the world through a trade reform supported by four Bank policy-based
loans.  Trade liberalization has lowered the percentage of dmestic
tradeable production covered by import quotas from 100? ln 1984 to
around 18? at present, and maximum import tariffs from 1002 to 20Z.
Non-oil merchandise exports, which represented less than one -third of
total exports in 1984. have doubled their share since then.
13.    This "core" reform has been complemented by many others.
Recognizing that the era of public sector-led growth had passed, the
Government took a number of measures to stimulate greater private
investment. In May 1989, foreign investment regulations were
considerably relaxed and made more transparent. A long-standing
prohibition against majority foreign ownership was removed, the fishing,
petrochemical, and mining sectors were opened to foreign investors for
the first time, the licensing of proposed investments under US$100
million was made automatic (so long as they satisfy newly-published
criteria), and approval of larger investments became automatic following
a 45-day waiting period, unless the Government interposed formal
objection. In addition, since 1986 the tax system has undergone a
series of reforms tending to reduce the previous biases against equity
finance, adjusting assets and liabilities for the effects of inflation,
bringing marginal tax rates more in line with levels in major industrial
countries, encouraging the repatriation of flight capital, and
increasing t1he sanctions for tax evasion.



14.    To encourage improved mobilization of domestic savings, the
Government initiated a process of liberalization of the financial
markets, supported by a F;nancial Sector Adjustment Loan from the Bank.
Interest rate ceilings and credit allocation formulae were removed on
commercial bank lending and credit subsidies through official
development banks were reduced significantly. At present, the principal
development and agricultural banks in the public sector are in the midst
of significant managerial and financial restructurings, designed to
consolidate these institutions, clean up their balance sheets, and
reform their lending practices.
15.    To reduce the role of the public sector, over 750 state-owned
enterprises have been sold, transferred, or liquidated from 1983 to the
present and 42 more are expected to be sold or closed during 1990. In
March 1990, the Governiment announced the privatization of two large
steel companies. The country's largest airline has been privatized and
the Government has also placed in receivership, for eventual sale or
liquidation, the country's largest mine. Under the Industrial Sector
Policy Loan the Government has already moved far ahead in the
deregulation of various sectors, such as petrochemicals,
pharmaceuticals, microcomputers and automotives. Attention is now
centering on liberalizing the transport and telecommunications sectors
since their services are a vital input to all economic activity,
particularly industrial production and exports. Liberalization will be
useful not only in its own right, but also as a means of increasing the
efficiency gains from industry and trade reforms.
D. Reorientation of Public Spending
16.    Since 1982, a retrenchment of public expenditure has occurred, of
a dimension unprecedented in Mexican terms, if not for most developing
countries. Non-interest spendlng declined by 36% in real terms.
However. the composition of the cutbacks was not ideal from the
standpoint of growth. Investment expenditures were cut more deeply than
current expenditures, posing the risk, nc-r that growth seems to be
underway once again, that infrastructure oottlenecks in areas such as
roads, cotmunications, and urban services, and lack of skilled manpower
availability could impose severe constraints on potential growth.
17.    Also, some of the gains in reducing illiteracy, infant mortality,
and nutrition during the seventies are threatened by the sharp cutbacks
in public expenditures for social programs. The social sector's
budgetary share declined from 20! or more in the years preceding 1982 to
around 132 currently. This trend seems unsustainab,le, given the already
sharp reduction in real wages, widespread unemployment, and worsening
inter-personal and inter-regional income disparities, arnd for the first
time in many years the 1990 budget provides for a significant increase
in the social sector's share.



18.    In recent years, two successive administrations have sought to
soften the blow of reductions in social expenditures. Global consumer
subsidies for basic food items have been replaced by less expensive, but
more targeted, subsidies to the poor. In 1989 a new "National
Solidarity Program, has set aside US$400 million to coordinate the
activities of existing agencies and to provide limited additional
budgetary support for agriculture, infrastructure and social programs in
Mexico's ten poorest states.
19.    As for the environment, it is widely recognized that the
cumulative effects of past growth, combined with generations of public
indifference about ecological issues, have resulted in severe
degradation of Mexico's air, soil, water, and forestry resources.
Mexico City is now one of the world's most seriously polluted cities,
but many other Mexican medium-sized cities suffer from significant
problems too. The Salinas Administration is the first to recognize the
urgency of broad-based efforts to clean up the environment and,
following up on the reformulation of an urban transport project (Loan
2824-ME) to start addressinp the pollution caused by vehicle
circulation, the Bank is currently involved in the preparation of a
free-standing project to address the air pollution problem in Mexico
City.
20.    Given the severe fiscal constraints, the task of rebuilding roads,
bridges and other infrastructure is being met in limited ways. The
greatest room for improvement lies in shifting resources at the margin
away from support of activities, such as telecommunications, which could
be better carried out by the private sector. This will permit increased
financing of activities, such as transport infrastructure, where the
state's role traditionally has been predominant, even though this is an
area where private investment is also being sought. The restoration of
sustainable growth will require a gradual increase in public investment
over the next few years (para. 25), particularly for agriculture
infrastructure, the environment, transportation, energy, and the social
sectots.
E.  External Debt R-Auction Agreement
21.    On September 13, 1989, the Government of Mexico and the Bank
Advisory Committee representing the commercial bank creditors reached
agreement on a finaticing package covering the period 1989-92,
restructuring approximately US$48.4 billion of Mexico's external debt.
The agreement consists of a menu of financing options which includes two
debt and debt service reduction facilities and four new money
facilities. The debt relief package was signed at the end of March
1990. It is estimated to reduce Mexico's annual net transfers abroad by
almost US$4 billion per year over the 1989-94 period. This reduction
will have a direct beneficial impact on Mexico's fiscal situation and on
output growth. At least as important will be the indirect effects
through renewed confidence. Lower net external transfers mean reduced
pressure on the exchange rate; this should reduce the risks associated
with peso-denominated public sector debt, thus taking pressure off



- 8 -
domestic interest rates. Indeed, %ithin days of the announcement of the
terms of the agreement in July 1989, nominal interest rates fell from 56
percent to 36 percent on an uncompounded basis. At the same time, the
maturity structure of foreign public debt widened considerably and
repatriation of over US$2 billion in private foreign capital rebuilt the
Government's foreign reserves, which are further indications of a
recovery in private confidetnce.
22.    Nominal interest rates have rebounded since September to around 45
percent currently, a reflection of uncertainties about what form the
extension of the PECE program (para. 9) will take beyond its June 1990
horizon, as well as uncertainties stemming from the sizeable growth in
the current account deficit (US$5.6 billion in 1989, compared with US$3
billion in 1988). The change in the size of the current account deficit
was largely due to the increased imports drawn in by accelerating
private sector investment, fast growing consumer imports (though
starting from a relatively low base), and a drought-induced decline in
net agricultural exports.  Manufactured export growth during 1989 also
slowed substantially to around 8.5 percent. However, with signs of a
slowdown in the growth of private investment and a strong recovery of
agricultural net exports and output already underway, the current
account deficit is expected to fall substantially in 1990, even before
taking into account the favorable impact of the debt agreement. This
agreement is expected to reduce the current account deficit by US$2
billion in 1990, and by US$1.3 billion annually in subsequent years.
Thus, external developments look set to improve in the near future.
F. Macroeconomic Projections2/
2?.    The substantial improvements in macroeconomic performance and in
structural adjustment are expected to lead to greatly improved prospects
for sustained growth and improving standards of living. The base case
starts from an assumption that the 1989 current account deficit,
equivalent to nearly 3 percent of GDP, will taper to deficits of around
1.4 percent of GDP over the next five years (see Annex V). These
moderate deficits should be easily financeable, and are consistent with
a projected decline in the foreign debt-GDP ratio from 49 percent in
1989 to 34 percent in 1994.
24.    It is also assumed that the fiscal stance will continue to be
consistent with inflation targets, which means that the non-interest
fiscal surplus would by assumption remain at around 6-6.5 percent of
GDP. This assumed fiscal outcome would be in line with the FY90 budget,
but significantly below the 8.4 percent of GDP primary surplus actually
achieved in FY89. From the standpoint of consistency with macroeconomic
growth and inflation targets, this level of fiscal effort would fall
somewhat short of what is needed in 1990-91, when domestic real interest
rates are likely to remain high, but exceed wlhat is necessary in 1992-
2/     Macroeconomic tables are attached as Annex V.



94, when real rates, are assumed to drop to a more reasonable risk
premium over foreign real rates.
25.    Per capita consumption is expected to decline slightly in real
terms through 1992, before experiencing a sharp recovery in 1993 -94.3/
As for public investmeiat, it is assumed to recover gradually from 4.2
percent of GDP in 1989 to around 6 percent of GDP in 1994, enabling the
Government to address the accumulated bottlenecks in the economy's
physical and social infrastructure which might otherwise constrain
growth. Private investment, which rose from a low of 11.6 percent of
GDP in 1986 to 15.8 percent in 1989 would continue to grow over the next
several years, attracted by the newly-enhanced investment climate and,
later in the sexenio, by the steady decline in real interest rates. By
1994, it is projected to reach around 18 percent of GDP.
26.    As a consequence of the rise in total investment from 18.5 percent
of GDP in 1986 to nearly 24 percent projected in 1994, real growth would
accelerate to a projected 5 percent by 1994. Stronger investment growth
under a smaller current account deficit target requires, of course,
higher private and/or public sector savings. Private consumption is
likely to grow faster than GDP over the sexenio. As a consequence,
virtually all of the growth in investment would have to be financed out
of increased public sector saving (defined as public investment less the
operational fiscal deficit), which would rise sharply from 2.1 percent
of GDP in 1989 to a projected 9.1 percent in 1994. The already
completed reforms in tax administration and in the structure of personal
income and property taxation, combined with continued assumed
improvements in public sector pricing, offer solid underpinning for the
projection of strong growth in public sector revenues. Substitution of
public investment for public consumption and the drop in domestic real
interest rates (projected to lower the domestic public debt service 4.4
percentage points of GDP between 1989 and 1994) will also contribute to
higher public savings.
27.    In conclusion, with foreign financing now in place, the program of
internal reform well-advanced, and the economy in a moderate growth mode
for the past year, a cautiously optimistic prognosis for Mexico's
recovery in growth seems justified. Moreover, Mexico's debt indicators
are projected to decline substantially. With a continuation of the
Government's reform program, investing in Mexico would offer prospects
of a high pay-off. Under the proposed project we would intend to
closely monitor the evolution of economic events and to carry out an
assessment of the medium term macroeconomic framework prior to second
tranche release.
3I     The projections discussed in this chapter have been generated with
the help of an econometric model d-scribed in Growth, External Debt, and
the Real Exchange Rate in Mexico, S. van Wijnbergen, Working Papers,
August 1989.



- 10 -
PART II - SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Introduction
28.    In the past two decades there has been a growing awareness all
over the world of the negative effects of excessive regulation on
private investment, productivity and growth. The original rationale for
regulation had stemmed from the concern that economies of scale led to
natural monopolies and that such monopolies would result in an
inefficient allocation of resources. In addition, it was feared that
unregulated competition could negatively affect quality and reliability
(or safety) of service. However, by the seventies greater concern was
being expressed that regulation limited innovation, sheltered
inefficiency and led to resource misallocation. In addition, questions
on the appropviate role of the state were brought up, in many cases
prompted by generalized concerns about the financing of public sector
budget deficits. This has been reflected in a move towards the
liberalization of markets previously not open to competition, and in
enhanced private sector participation in activities that had before been
reserved to the public sector.
29.    Mexico has been taking important steps to spur privatization and
to adjust the regulatory framework in line with the considerations
outlined above. Most important has been the liberalization of trade,
reflected in a significant elimination of quantitative restrictions and
reduction in the level and coverage of tariffs (para. 12). The Bank has
supported this process through several loans and progress has exceeded
the targets agreed therein, as well as commitments under GATT, which
Mexico joined in 1986. Another important area of policy reform has been
direct foreign investment (DFI). The rules governing DFI were
liberalized in May 1989, opening new areas for DPI, allowing majority
foreign ownership and simplifying the procedures for licensing (para.
13). A third area of policy reform has been the banking system, which
had been subject to quantitative credit controls that now have been
lifted (para. 14). Finally, reforms in the industrial sector in general
(such as reduction of domestic content requirements and investment
incentives) and in some subsectors in particular (i.e.: petrochemicals)
also deserve to be highlighted, as they underscore the coherence and
sense of direction of the overall program.
30.    Within the above general policy framework, the Government has
embarked on a program to expand the role of the private sector to areas
previously reserved to the public sector. The de la Madrid and Salinas'
administrations have made substantial progress in the divestiture of
public enterprises (para. 15), and a program to continue the
disengagement process has been agreed with the Bank under the Public
Enterprise Reform Loan (Loan 3086-ME). In a number of sectors hitherto
reserved exclusively to government ownership, new initiatives are being
undertaken to attract private sector participation and investment. For
example, the Government is considering cogeneration alternatives which
would attract private capital to the power sector. In water supply,
private provision of water services is being tried on a pilot basis in



- 11 -
Aguas Calientes. In urban transportation, the public bus lines serving
Mexico city may be turned into cooperative enterprises. In highway
construction, concessions are being given for the construction and
operation of privately financed toll roads.
31.    The two sectors on which the proposed project focuses (road
freight transportation and telecommunications) would also be the subject
of major policy changes in line with, and supportive of, the broad
reform processes discussed above. Transportation and telecommunications
are services on which all business activities rely, and their timely
availability, quality and cost have important effects on a wide range of
products and services and play an important role in facilitating trade.
The proposed loan would support the Government's programs in these two
sectors and would promote institutional changes to ensure the success of
the program. In addition, through a parallel loan, the Bank would
provide technical assistance to the telecommunications sector regulatory
body.
B. Road Transport
32.    The regulation of road freight transportation is a common
practice. It is normally justified on grounds of safety, reliability of
service and stability of rates. Competition in the sector is feared to
be ultimately destructive of the ability of the industry to offer good
service. However, there are many countries where the industry is free
from most Government regulation and operates in an efficient manner.
The costs of trucking regulation arise from inefficient provision of
services, shifting of traffic to less economical modes, higher costs of
transportation and reduction in total transportation volumes. A study
conducted in the USA in 1975, before deregulation, had estimated that
these costs could amount to as much as one third of the income generated
in road transportation.4/ As we discuss below, the Mexican regulatory
framework involved an even higher degree of interference with market
forces than in the US, so that its cost could well be in such range.5/
33.     Besides freight transportation (trucking), which--together with
telecommunications--is the focus of the proposed project, road transport
also includes bus passenger and tourism services. Currently, buses are
given permission to operate only on specific routes, and entry to the
market is highly restricted. In order to provide a permit for a
service, SCT consults existing providers, which has led to a very
concentrated market structure. The Goverment now intends to deregulate
41     T. Gale Moore "Deregulpting Surface Freight Transportation" in A.
Phillips (ed), Promoting Competition in Regulated Markets, The Brookings
Institution, Washington, D.C. 1975.
5/     The Mexican Government conducted a preliminary study on the
welfare cost of regulation in trucking, which estimates that it amounted
to 1122 of GNP.



- 12 -
entry, requiring minimal formalities to change routes. Transport
services for tourism were deregulated in March 1990. Before then, these
services were provided through a Government monopoly and the level of
service was generally considered to be very poor. SCT has now
eliminated this monopoly and will issue permits to all interested
operators. Route and tariff restrictions have been eliminated and tour
operators are free to contract transport services. Foreign vehicles
bringing in tourists from abroad are now allowed into Mexico, which
could be an important measure to promote tourism and improve the balance
of payments. While outside the scope of this proposed project, the
policy measures outlined above highlight the breadth and coherence of
the Government's reform program.
34.    While in the past regulation may have helped the development of
the road freight transport industry, the Government has now reached the
conclusion that the regulatory framework has been defeating the purpose
for which it had been conceived. The Bank's sector dialogue with Mexico
during the last two or three years has been increasingly focused on this
issue, developing awareness of the problems and promoting discussion on
alternative ways to address them. In mid-1988 the findings of a study
conducted by the Bank among industrial users, showed generalized concern
with the poor quality of trucking servicer. The main issues to be
addressed in the trucking industry and the Government's policies and
actions are outlined below.
Trucking Entry Restrictions
35.    In the past many restrictions to entry into the trucking industry
have limited competition and reduced efficiency:
(a)   Federal trucking concessions.  In order to provide public
trucking services, trucking firms were required to obtain a
concession to operate from the Ministry of Communications
and Transport (SCT). The concessions, by law, were given
primarily to existing concession holders and the
administrative procedures for determining the need for
additional service depended on the opinion of existing
service providers. These procedures strengthened the
position of existing firms and led to the formation of
cartels.
(b)   Corridor Assignments.  The country was divided into eleven
corridors and each trucker needed a permit to operate
within a specific corridor. As a result, both truckers and
shippers experienced increased costs. For the truckers,
down time increased and load factors reduced as the
restrictions constrained their options for backhauling and
made it more difficult to match their supply with available
demand. For the shippers who wanted to send cargo across
corridors, indirect routing was necessary or special
arrangements with higher tariffs had to be made.
Furthermore, the corridor system tended to favor existing



- 13 -
spatial concentration, since the corridors tended to radiate
from Mexico City.
(c)   Freight centers:  Truckers, especially small operators, were
originally encouraged to form freight centers sz that they
could take advantage of economies of scale for common
services (such as the provision of spare parts, insurance
and paperwork), and facilitate cargo movements. While these
services are supportive of the industry, the freight
centers, partly as a result of their market knowledge, in
recent years limited entry and tended to form cartels in the
assignment of cargo. Some freight centers adopted a roll
call, first-come first-serve queuing system for truckers to
be given access to cargo. As a result, shippers had little
say in the selection of the trucker and the benefits of
either competition or a close working relationship were
foregone. Moreover, the centers were increasingly reluctant
to allow return load facilities to other centers even on the
same route, and opposed allowing vehicles from other routes
to operate witl:in their service area, even when transport
was in short supply.
(d)   Container Movements?  Regulations also inhibited the
efficient circulation of containers. To optimize the
handling of international container movements, Multimodal, a
semipublic company, was created by SCT in 1981. The company
was expected to perform the role of a national freight
forwarder, undertaking a host of complex services, ranging
from packaging to arranging insurance and delivery.
However, in practice, as a result of Multimodal's monopoly
status and partly because of its lack of expertise, which
requires a detailed knowledge of shipping markets and costs,
international container shipments were not handled in an
efficient manner. Instead, collusion between Multimodal and
the freight centers led to a system of surcharges and
unofficial payments which often far exceeded the stated
tariffs. More important than the shipping costs, service
standards were low and deliveries often delayed. As a
result, there has been a strong tendency for container
traffic to be confined to the port area, thus foregoing the
large potential benefits of door-to-door delivery, which is
the main advantage of the intermodal technology. In
addition, customs regulations did not permit containers that
were temporarily brought into the country boxing imlports to
be used to transport domestic cargoes, which resulted in
empty movements of containers and in an uneconomic
utilization of their transportation capacity.
(e)   Cargo Handling Conce'sions.  SCT granted concessions for
handling cargo movements at the railroad stations and border
customs facilities, as well as for the drayage services to
cross the border. In most cases goods could not be removed



- 14 -
without the services of the concessionaire. Ag with the
federal trucking concessions, entry was limited and cartels
were formed, which tend to increase costs and reduce service
quality.
(f)   International trucking.  While cargo trailers are allowed to
cross the international borders and proceed to their final
destination with unloading and loading, the tractors (power
units) are not permitted (neither by Mexico nor by the U.S.)
to cross. To undertake the exchange of trailers at the
border, drayage services have developed. The regulations
for these services vary depending on the cities and states
involved on both sides. In most cases the Mexican drayage
firms (which often operated as cartels) are allowed to bring
and take trailers across the US border within a commercial
zone which is usually limited to the urban area at the
border. The US drayage operations, on the other hand, are
generally more restricted; sometimes they are not allowed to
cross the border areas or to pickup return loads. Besides
the increased costs of exchanging power units and drayage
services, customs delays in the clearance of goods are often
experienced on both sides. An additional difficulty has
been that the high-growth 'maquiladora" (in-bond assembly)
industries have not been permitted to transport their own
products in their own private fleet, which led to
inefficiency and higher costs.
(g)   State Restrictions.  Besides the Federal regulations, some
states have restrictions which affect intrastate movements
of cargo. In some cases, concessions are required for
specific cargo and/or route movements on state highways. A
review of state regulations in Chihuahua, Jalisco, Puebla,
Veracruz and the state of Mexico generally indicates that
state regulations do not, in general, pose major issues as
intrastate traffic is not very significant in comparison to
interstate transport.  However, state regulations do affect
the movement of some agriculture, forestry and construction
industry products.
The Government Program to Eliminate Trucking Entry Restrictions
36.    The recently issued National Development Program (NDP) for 1989-
1994 outlines the general policy framework under which the Government
expects to achieve its objective of modernization in the road transport
industry, so that the quality of services may be improved and costs
reduced. The basis of the program is that private investments and
competition would be encouraged and the development of multimodal
transportation would be pursued. In accordance with the NDP, on July 6,
1989, the Government signed an agreement with the private sector which
spelled out sector objectives and mutual commitments to modernize the
road transport industry. Subsequently, on July 7, 1989 new regulations
governing trucking and inter-modal transport were approved by decree.



- 15 -
37.    The main points of the new regulations, that address the entry
issues raised above, are:
(a)   Federal trucking Permits:  The public service notion, which
was behind the concept that trucking operations require a
concession, has been abandoned. Entry requirements have
been eliminated and clear guidelines have been provided for
obtaining permits. The trucker need only to prove his
identity and vehicle ownership to get a permit, which is
easy to obtain. This will allow an increase in the number
of truckers that may engage in public transport and allow
the legalization of an estimated 20,000 truckers that were
operating outside the previous system. From August through
December 1989 over 8500 permits have been granted (i.e.s
about three times the number issued during 1986-1988).
Also, own-account operators are now allowed to transport
third party cargo.
(b)   Route assignments.  The corridor restrictions have been
eliminated and trucks have been freed to transport
interstate cargo throughout Mexico. Direct shipments
between former corridors are permitted without additional
costs and truckers are free to offer their services
throughout the country.
(c)   Freight centers.  Truckers do not have to belong to freight
centers to obtain cargo and shippers are free to use the
trucker of their choice. The freight centers no longer
control cargo shipments and certify the shipment bill of
lading.
(d)   Container movements.  The new regulations allow containers
to be transported without Multimodal's services and entry
into the provision of inter-modal services (under which the
transporter is fully responsible for door-to- door
shipments) has been opened up. Six new firms have already
obtained permits to provide these services and applications
from six additional firms are currently being processed. In
addition, in January 1990 restrictions on the use of
international containers for the transport of domestic cargo
were lifted. This is expected to increase container
utilization and, hence, efficiency.
(e)   Cargo handling concessions.  In January 1990 new regulations
were issued to allow open entry to the provision of cargo
handling services at railroad stations and custnme
facilities. These regulations forbid giving exclusive
rights for the provision of these services and provide
flexibility for rate charges. Operators with federal
trucking permits will automatically be allowed to provide



- 16 -
cargo handling services in federal areas (railroad stations,
customs and border crossings).
(f)   International trucking.  Discussions under GATT are taking
place between the USA and Mexico on border trade issues and
a fourth meeting was held in January 1990. The new
regulations issued in January 1990 allow open entry for the
provision of drayage services (which also includes border
crossings) so that the present cartels are being broken. In
addition, the "maquiladoras" are now allowed to transport
their own products in their ewn trucks across the border.
(g)   State Restrictions.  SCT has developed s. plan of action to
sign agreements that will cover road transport in the areas
of freight, passenger and tourism with every individual
state where this is warranted, in order to eliminate state
transport restrictions. The Federal Government will provide
state licenced carriers with permits to operate on the
Federal network and, in exchange, the States will adjust
their regulatory framework to the deregulated Federal one.
While the states have autonomy to regulate intrastate
transport, the elimination of state regulations would be in
line with federal policy. All agreements are expected to be
finalized by March 31, 1991.
Official Trucking Tariffs
38.    In the past, the official trucking tariffs were set by SCT.  While
formally the tariffs were not negotiable, in practice some flexibility
existed, especially in the form of discounts for large powerful users
and, conversely, surcharges by powerful truckers. Furthermore, the
tariffs, which were classified into five rate categories and fixed on a
countrywide basis, often bore little or no relationship with the costs
for a specific shipment. Thus, supply tended to be more available in
some areas and less in others, depending on the relationship of the
tariffs to costs.
39.    In July 1989 regulations were issued which allowed 'official'
tariffs to be regarded as maximum rates. It then became legal to
negotiate individual rates taking into account the specifics of the
goods to be transported, provided they did not exceed the maximum
official rate. Also a 152 surcharge on rates on imported goods was
eliminated. More recently, in January 1990 the tariff ceilings were
also eliminated, as well as the application rules that set values for,
among other services, pick up-delivery, cargo insurance, exclusively
served customers, empty back-hauls and warehouse spaces. Thus, rates
may now be freely negotiated between the trucker and the customer.
Automotive Industry
40.    The automotive industry, consisting of auto, truck, and bus and
parts producers, faces numerous regulations which greatly increase the



- 17 -
effective costs of vehicle purchase and maintenanc.. In line with the
government's previous import substitution policies, protection in the
form of high tariffs and numerous import quota restrictions exist. For
automotive production, the effective protection is currently estimated
at about SO?, compared with the 152 average for the manufacturing
industry as a whole. In addition, all producers must comply with
domestic component restrictions which vary depending upon whether
production is for tbe domestic or export market.  Furthermore, the
number of lines and models which producers may manufacture is limited.
Foreign ownership of domestic auto parts firms is also limited to 402.
Only the "maquiladoras' which produce auto parts for export are exempted
from the above regulations.
41.    The automotive industry issue is being addressed under the
Industrial Sector Policy Loan (ISPL), approved in June 1989, under which
the Bank and the GOM agreed on an action plan to deregulate the
automotive sector. In compliance with this commitment, on December 11,
1989 the GOM published two decrees which represent a major step forward
in the liberalization of the sector and which exceed substantially the
actions required under the ISPL. The regulations governing the
automotive industry have been clianged to ensure that truckers will be
able to purchase units of international quality at international prices
and starting with model year 1991 the import of tractor trailere will be
allowed (starting in 1992 also heavy trucks) if domestic prices exceed
the international level. In addition, restrictive regulations on the
organization of truck production, such as national integration
requirements, compulsory incorporation of domestic components into
vehicles and the majority national ownership requirement have been
eliminated. The plan also calls fors
(a)   opening up the import of buses (which has already taken
place), and of automobiles, light and medium trucks,
beginning with the 1991 model year; and
(b)   gradual reduction of domestic content requirements for the
vehicles listed above and for auto parts, and progressive
removal of quantitative restrictions on auto nart imports.
Highway Safety and Environment
42.    While on economic grounds a convincing case may be made that most
regulations which restrict entry and limit price competition should be
eliminated, there is an economic rationale for safety, environmental and
vehicle loading controls, based on the externalities that they cause.
The total number of road fatalities in Mexico is estimated to be about
15,000 per year and a rough estimate made by the Bank in 1987 indicates
that the proportion of the number of persons killed on Mexican highways
to the number of accidents was six times higher than in Sweden.
43.    SCT's road safety policy, outlined in the 1989-1994 national
program for transport modernization, seeks to substantially reduce the
number of traffic fatalities and injuries. However, although much good



- 18 -
work is being done by various agencies to improve road safety,
coordination is weak and policy objectives are not clearly defined. To
address this problem, the Government has strengthened the interagency
group that is responsible for these areas. An expanded interagency
group will bring to bear the views of all affected parties, and is
perceived as the first step towards effective coordination. While an
accident data collection system exists, collection, storage and analysis
require improvement so that the data for the entire country is presented
in a consistent way and subsequent action programs formulated.
44.    At present, Mexico lacks an adequate inspection system to monitor
vehicle safety. The present system allows potentially dangerous
vehicles to use the public roads. and at least 71 of the accidents are
due to vehicle factors, such as bad tires and brakes. However, it would
be of little value to invest in expensive testing facilities and to
employ a large number of inspectors if there is no confidence on the
results tlhat such system would deliver. Furthermore, at a time when the
size of the public sector is being reduced, the merits of such an option
become questionable. Hence, an alternative which would be better suited
to present circumstances would be to promote insurance against third
party claims, which over time should result in better monitoring of the
conditions of vehicles and of driver behavior; this is the course that
the Government intends to follow.
45.    A particular safety concern is the size and heavy loads of the
cargo truck fleet.  Overloaded axles of trucks cause severe damage to
highway pavements, which increases the risk of accidents and results in
shorter road life and high maintenance costs.  The cost of the resultant
damag-s caused to bridges and to pavements is borne by the highway
authority, end the increased cost of accidents have to be met by the
community. While little data is presently available, axle overloadings
are suspected to be most serious on roads connecting major port areas,
where cargoes are concentrated and heavy industries are located. This
problem is to be addressed, in a first stage, by a study that has
already been contracted which will first collect information on vehicle
sizes and loadings and, in subsequent stages, analyze policy options and
recommend measures to enforce vehicle size and weight regulations.
46.    Another problem related to security, and which business firms
report to be a major concern, is loss and damage to cargo. At present,
the trucker's responsibility for cargo loss is limited to only Mex$
800/ton (US$0.31) and provides little incentive to care for the cargo.
Until January 1990, a further regulation indicated that the shipper
could insure his cargo by paying the trucker a fixed rate of 3 mills per
declared value. The fixed rate did not take into account the type of
product shipping risks, which are independent of the cargo value. While
now the rate for incremental insurance may be negotiated freely, the
limit on the trucker's respons4bility has not been updated. The
Government is now reviewing the limit and a decision is expected soon.
47.    Regarding the environment, the key concern is with air pollution,
particularly in the Mexico City metropolitan area. At present SEDUE and



- 19 -
SCT are drafting norms to control bus and truck noise and air pollution,
requiring periodic inspections which would be conducted by private
service stations. In addition, programs to improve the quality of fuels
are under way. The Bank will also provide assistance to address the
specific problem of Mexico city through Loan 2824-ME (which was amended
in January 1990 for this purpose) as well as through a proposed free
standing project which is now in an advanced stage of preparation.
Pricing, Cost Recovery and Taxation
48.    Sector cost recovery:  If transportation is to be used in the most
efficient way, users should face charges that adequately reflect the
true cost of the mode chosen. In this context, a study conducted by the
Bank indicates that while overall road costs are being recovered there
are cross-subsidies between automobiles and trucks. By late 1989 trucks
were only paying for a small fraction (about 152) of the costs which
they caused to the highway network. This result was essentially due to
the relatively low domestic price of diesel fuel, which in November 1989
was Mex$ 445/lt (US$O.65Igallon), above the international border price
but not enough to allow adequate cost recovery. On December 1, 1989 the
price of diesel was increased by 5.62 and this increased cost recovery
from trucks to about 50%. Further measures would still be required to
raise cost recovery to an acceptable level. These could involve some
additional increase in the price of diesel and/or an increase in direct
taxes or license fees paid by truckers. The Government's development
policy letter confirms its commitment to the objective of full cost
recovery.
49.    Railroad tariffs.  Also related to the issue of market pricing, is
the present structure of railroad tariffs, since trucks compete with the
railroads for traffic. In general, the tariffs charged by the railroads
for the transportation of key commodities fall short of long run
variable costs. This should be corrected to avoid a misallocation of
traffic between trucks and the railroads. This issue is being addressed
under the Railway Sector Loan (Loan 2575-ME) but the constraints placed
by the ongoing stabilization program to public sector price adjustments
have resulted in a build-up of distortions over the past two years. The
Government has now decided to substantially increase FERRONALES' rates
within the next few months, so as to realign them with economic costs.
In addition, under the Public Enterprise Reform Loan (Loan 3086-ME) a
study of railway rates has been initiated and, upon its completion in
September 1990. it will provide an improved data base for relating
railway rates to economic costs. Lastly, on January 26, 1990 the
Government passed a decree which provides general guidelines for the
operation of all public enterprises. The decree highlights the
objective of fostering managerial autonomy, establishes that public
sector prices should reflect opportunity costs or should be based on
economic criteria, and assigns freedom to the enterprises to
periodically adjust their prices based on these criteria, subject only
to a five day prior notification to the Government. Thus the decree
provides an excellent framework for the future.



- 20 -
50.    Taxation.  Because of a special provision, the Mexican transport
sector was exempt from income taxes as well as from value added atnd
ownership taxes. Instead, since 1966 truckers were requtred to pay a
direct tax which was a fixed amount per operated vehicle. The amount
vaxied according to the type of vehicle and the kind of service it
provided but on average was very small and, as a result, revenues
obtainied from this tax were minuscule. Not only did this cause a
distortion in the pricing and allocation system, it was a major loss of
tax revenue since the transport sector accounts for about 72 of GDP and
the Bank estimated that a large revenue potential from taxing truckers
under the general income tax regime was not being tapped. The exclusion
also presented an avenue for tax evasion, since a manufacturer could
start a trucking operation to escape corporate income taxes. Within the
1990 budget that was approved by Congress, the exemption of the trucking
industry from income taxes, value added and ownership taxes was
eliminated. This action thus closes a large loophole in the tax
structure.
Road Maintenance and Efficiency
51.    Closely related to the pricing and taxation issue is the amount of
expenditures on road maintenance, since the condition of the roads
directly influences costs and tariffs. About 202 of Mexico's 45,000 km
long Federal Highway Network (FHN) is badly deteriorated, mostly due to
inadequate maintenance over the past several years. The backlog of
deferred maintenance is estimated to be over 502 of the federal highway
network (i.e., about 25,000 kms). The problem is expected to increase
in severity, particularly as the funds currently allocated to
maintenance fall short of estimated needs. During the 1987-89 period
routine maintenance was carried out only on about 20? of the FHN.
Furthermore, to add to the difficulty, for budget management reasons the
funds released to SCT often arrive during the second half of the
calendar year while the main maintenance and construction period during
the dry season occurs during the first half of the year.
52.    An analysis of SCT's expenditures during the 1983-88 period
indicates that only about half of their budget was spent on maintenance
and rehabilitation activities. The remainder of SCT's resources was
spent on new construction and on widening existing roads. While new
construction and widening can provide acceptable returns, numerous
studies both in Mexico and other countries have indicated that
maintenance activities (preservation of the existing roads) show the
highest returns and are the best use of limited resources. The
Government's development policy letter underscores the priority it
assigns to highway maintenance and this has been reflected in its recent
decision to increase the originally proposed 1990 budget for maintenance
by about 40?.
Reorganization of SCT
53.    As a result of the steps already taken, many of SCT's regulatory
functions in the transportation sector are being eliminated or reduced,



- 21 -
particularly within the General Directorate of Land Transport and
Tariffs. To ensure the efficient use of personnel SCT conducted an
internal reorganization (including reductions in persornel, suppression
of a department and reassignment of its staff, and reformulation of the
functions of two other departments) to align its structure with its
revised role in the sector. This reorganization is substantially
implemented, and only some fine tuning is likely to be needed in the
months ahead.
C. The Telecommunications Sector
54.    In recent years the telecommunications sector has been the focus
of worldwide attention. The success of a recent Bank seminar in Asia6'
testifies to the growing interest in management and restructuring
options for the sector. Following the break-up of AT&T in the USA, and
the move towards privatization and a more competitive environment (as
well as innovative concepts in regulatory practice) in the UK and other
large industrialized countries (such as Japan, France, Germany,
Netherlands and Australia) there has been a widening interest in the
potential of sector reforms. The underlying technological and economic
forces of change are by now clearly visible in developing countries.
55.    As noted in the IBRD book mentioned above, in most developing
nations telecommunication services are provided by the public sector.
often quality of service is poor and there is a large unmet demand.
Sector investments, constrained by overall ceilings on total public
sector investments, fall short of needs and charges tend to be
influenced more by political factors than by financial and economic
considerations. At the same time, technologies are in a process of
constant change, costs are dropping and the uses of telecommunications
in business are expanding.  The inability of the sector to respond to
demand is a major challenge faced by the developing world, and Mexico is
no exception.
The Mexican Telecommunications Sector
56.    TELMEX has a monopoly on telephone service.  Until 1972, TELMEX
was controlled and managed by the private sector and still today 49? of
its stock is publicly traded (both in the Mexico and it? the New York
stock exchanges), while the other 51? is held by the Government.  TELMEX
is run as a government enterprise, and its tariffs, investment
decisions, finances and management are constrained by the same factors
as in other parastatal enterprises. SCT is responsible for
telecommunications sector policy and regulation. The latter includes
licensing of private networks, approval of customer premises equipment,
and planning, administering and monitoring the use of the radio
spectrum. Until late 1989, SCT also had direct operational
6/     B. Wellenius, P. Stern, T. Nulty and R. Stern (editors),
Restructuring and Managing the Telecommunications Sector, The World
Bank, Washington D.C., May 1989.



- 22 -
responsibility for the provision of some services (mainly telex, data
transmission, operation of a sizable, but antiquated, microwave network,
a modern but underutilized domestic satellite system, and a network of
maritime coastal stations).
57.    Mexico's present telecommunications system is a major constraint
to economic growth, particularly industrial production and export
activities. There are over 1.5 million applications for telephone
service awaiting installation (and many more potential subscribers that
do not bother to apply given known long delays in obtaining service)7!.
Telephone service is also of poor quality, unreliable, and heavily
congested (it is virtually impossible to get through during peak
business hours). In the recent past, TELMEX has installed about 230,000
lines per year, which barely keeps up with the growth of demand. More
advanced services (e.g., facsimile, data transmission, cellular
telephony, access to time-shared data processing and data banks) are
only in their infancy. Given Mexico's drive to open its economy, it is
becoming increasingly important to ensure that business firms operating
throughout Mexico have access to state-of-the-art telecommunications and
information services, and that households gain access to markets and
business activities through a more effective basic telephone
infrastructure.
Sector Issues
58.    Senior government and TELMEX officials have given much careful
thought to the four key sets of issues that need to be addressed in
order to overcome the above deficiencies:
(a)   What role should the private sector play in
telecommunications? In particular, how can the huge
investments required to expand and modernize services be
funded? And what functions should remain with the
government?
(b)   To what extent, and how, should competition be developed?   '.
(c)   What would be an appropriate regulatory framework?  In
particular, what should be the price and tax regime? How
can the required regulatory capacity be developed? And,
7/     Mexico's 5.3 connected telephone lines per 100 inhabitants is
somewhat less than the average for Latin America (about 6) and well
below other newly industrialized countries (e.g., Korea 15, Singapore
30). Only 18S of Mexican households have a telephone (compared with
about 401 in Spain). Furthermore, there are large imbalances among
states (e.g. 11 lines per 100 inhabitants in the Federal District
compared with 3 lines per hundred in the states of Mexico, Veracruz and
Michoacan) and between urban and rural areas.



- 23 -
(d)   How can the conflict of interest between the government's
regulatory functions and its operating responsibilities be
reduced or eliminated?
These issues are linked to broader aspects of the Government strategy
which, as noted earlier, seeks to spur private sector development and
non-traditional exports and reduce public sector participation in
business activities where the public sector does not have a comparative
advantage or very clear rationale for its involvement.
59.    Private Sector Role.  There is now a widespread perception, which
the Bank shares, that under private ownership TELMEX would face less
constraints in mobilizing funds and operating as an efficient business
than it does as a parastatal enterprise. In addition, in the context of
appropriate sector policies it would be more responsive to changing
market requirements and technological opportuntities. There is also the
idea that ownership of a substantial proportion of TELMEX stock by a
foreign operating company would bring in expert telecommunications
management to steer TELMEX towards more efficient commercial operation.
In order to prepare TELMEX for sale, in October 1989 the Secretary of
Finance (who is responsible for handling the placement of TELMEX shares)
was appointed as chairman of the Board and a new director general took
over as chief executive. Furthermore, in January 1990 a Mexican
investment bank, "Banco Internacionall, was appointed to handle the
sale.
60.    Competition.  The Bank also shares the view that new private
service providers should be allowed to enter the market under a
regulatory framework which limits Government intervention as much as
reasonably feasible. Such competition would help meet outstanding and
new demands, particularly for advanced business services where
innovation and responsiveness, rather than scale and scope, are the key
determinants of performance. Competition would also press TELMEX to
accelerate network growth, improve the quality of its services, and
contain costs.
61.    Policy decisions are required, however, on the competitive supply
of services, participation of monopoly entities in the competitive
segments, and relations between both. Unfettered competition would
result in wasteful duplication of facilities, loss of benefits due to
excessive network fragmentation, and dilution of surplus funds needed to
complete the basic national telecommunications infrastructure required
for economic development reasons.
62.    Regulation, Pricing and Taxation.  As the state moves out of the
business of providing telecommunications services, it becomes necessary
to revise the policy and regulatory framework and build up a public
regulatory capability. First, regulatory objectives suited to a mix of
private competitive and monopoly services need to be clearly
established. Second, the role of pricing as a means to ensure efficient
allocation of resources must be recognized and principles developed to
set prices in such cases where market mechanisms may be inadequate.



- 24 -
Third, areas where disagreement between affected parties may arise must
be identified and processes established to resolve disputes and ensure
fairness in decision making. Finally, transparency and accountability
must be brought into thte picture toi attract public trust and support for
the proposed changes. The extent and pace at which Mexico can build up
effective, trustworthy regulation will be a key factor in the success of
privatization and competition.
63.    A critical area for regulatory improvement is that of pricing.
Until January 1990, installation charges were very high, montthly network
access and local usage charges were very low, and tariffs on
international calls (especially to the USA, which accounts for about 90?
of the traffic) were extremely high. These price distortions induced
excessive use of some facilities while penalizing others (especially
burdening international business activities with prices that were
significantly higher than those of Mexico's foreign competitors or
partners). In January 1990 cross subsidies were significantly reduced,
with some charges for domestic calls increasing as much as twelve times
and rates for international calls dropping by about 352. As TELMEX is
privatized, it becomes increasingly important to establish a process for
the periodic adjustment of tariffs that reflects the objective of
promoting efficiency. while ensuring an adequate level of
profitabilit y{. Considerable progress has been made in this regard and
the Government has now decided to rely on price-cap mechanisms, which is
in line with the prevailing thinking in the USA, UK and other countries
that have moved towards privatization.
64.    Until recently, taxation was also a major issue.  Telephone users
had to pay a tax (inclusive of VAT) which ranged between 22? and 72?
(depending on the type of service). On average, TELMEX suscribers paid
more than 502 in taxes, which was the highest of a group of 76 countries
studied by the Bank. Over the past several years, while the Government
did provide funds for investment to TELMEX, the sector remained a net
contributor of funds to the Treasury. It is estimated that in 1989 the
net transfers (all taxes minus funds provided for investment) from
TELMEX to the Government amounted to the equivalent of about US$640
million. It was increasingly felt, however, that as the sector was
opened to competition, telephone taxes had to be reconsidered to avoid
misallocation of resources. Applying VAT to telephone services is
perfectly justifiable (indeed necessary to avoid distortions). So is
taxing income under the same rules and applying the same rates as for
other business activities. On this basis the tax regime was
substantially realigned in January 1990. The new regime does provide
for a tax on revenues (in additon to VAT and income taxes), but this new
tax (which replaces the old tax otl telephone users) is a major
8/     Often the marginal cost of providing telecommunications services
is lower than average cost (mainly due to economies of scale and
technological innovation). Thus deviations from efficient prices may be
required to ensure full cost recovery and generation of operating
surpluses to sustain rapid expansion and modernization.



- 25 -
improvement. It allows for a substantial investment credit atid may be
deducted from income taxes, so it may reasonably be expected that its
financial impact on TELHEX will be negligible but it will, serve to
reduce accounting profits, and hence avoid a large increase in employee
participation in profits. The recently enacted price and tax changes,
coupled to a phasing out of Government contributions to investment by
the time that TELMEX is privatized, are expected to result in TELMEX
payments to the Government of about US$754 million in 1990.9   In the
medium term, increased private participation in the sector will result
in system growth and increased fiscal revenues, so that by 1994 these
would rise to about US$1,460 million.
65.    There are also areas of essentially technical (as distinct from
economic) regulation that need attention. Management of the radio
spectrum, a scarce natural resource, is already antiquated and
ineffective; with the advent of more private networks and service
providers, this may prove an intractable bottleneck unless extensively
modernized. Under a proposed Technical Assistance Loan that is being
processed in parallel to this operation, the Bank would assist TELHEX in
this field. Also, maintenance of national fundamental technical plans
(for signalling, ntmbering, etc, required to facilitate
interconnectivity among national network segments and with international
standards) is currently the responsibility of TELMEX; as TELMEX is
privatized, and competition develops, responsibility for this function
must be taken over by an entity that is independent of the operator.
66.    Lastly, there is the need to concentrate in a single agency a
number of regulatory functions now dispersed between several. In
particular it would be advisable to consolidate the tariff oversight
function, in which SCT, SHCP and, in some way SPP, are now presently
involved. This would automatically take place once TELMEX becomes
private, as the role currently played by SHCP and SPP, arises from the
"public' nature that TELMEX now has. The need to strengthen SCT's
91     The windfall effect on Government finances of the sale of its
shareholdings in TELMEX should also be taken into account. TELMEX's net
book value is about US$3.3 billion. Based on the current market price
of TELMEX shares in the Mexican stock exchange, the Government's
holdings in the company would be worth over US$2 billion, but now that
tariffs have been substantially aligned with economic costs it is
expected that such value will rise. In this context the pace of
divestiture is likely to have significant financial implications. One
of the key objectives of the strategy that the Government, with the
assistance of investment bankers, is now developing is to obtain the
best possible deal, while meeting the other objectives of the
divestiture process. To achieve this, the Government will initially
sell about 202 of the shares (i.e.: less than 40Z of the Government's
holdings) which will provide the purchaser with a controlling interest
(because of the higher voting rights that will be attached to these
shares).



- 26 -
telecommunications regulatory capability is based on TELMEX' significant
monopoly power, and is addressed by the Technical Assistance project
being proposed in parallel with this operation.
67.    Divestiture of SCT's Operations.  An essential element of sector
reform must be separating operational activities under SCT from its
policy and regulatory responsibilities. This would substantially reduce
the risk that SCT would seek to protect its own business activities at
the expense of overall sectoral development. It is also essential to
give adequate assurances to private investors (particularly those
expected to buy TELMEX) that state operations will not be used as a tool
for arbitrary interference in the market. To achieve this, the
Government has decided to reorganize SCT's operations under an
autonomous state enterprise, TELECOMM, subject to the same rules and
regulations as any private operating entity, and without further
Government financial support.
The Government's Telecommunications Program
68.    The Government has decided that a major effort to step up the pace
of telecommunications development is required, and has set as a goal an
investment program of about US$10 billion over 6 years (1989-1994),
which would allow increasing the telephone density from about 5.3 lines
per 100 inhabitants (end 1988) to 8.5 (1994). The Government is willing
to take action on the issues outlined above and is quite advanced in
implementing a far reaching program of reforms, of which the following
key aspects deserve to be highlighted:
(a)   Privatization:  Privatization of TELMEX, announced by the
President several months ago, is the center piece of the
Government's telecommunications reform plan and is well
underway. A satisfactory program and timetable have been
furnished to the Bank: under them in early 1991 Banco
Internacionalu expects to transfer administrative control of
TELMEX to private owners and to initiate the sale of
remaining Government-held shares in the national and
international markets. To achieve this, "Banco
Internacionalf has finalized an agreement with a foreign
investment banker that will coordinate efforts in placing
shares abroad; for which purpose other foreign investment
banks are also to be engaged soon.
(b)   Competition:  Concurrent with the sale of TELMEX shares,
competition will be widely encouraged, including development
of private user networks interconnected to the public
network, cellular telephony (mainly for mobile service but
also as an alternative to TELMEX's fixed telephone service),
supply of customer premises equipment (e.g., telephones,
PABXs, fax and telex machines), provision of information
services, and eventually long-distance and international
voice and data transmission. Franchises for cellular
services in Mexico City and in eight regions covering the



- 27 -
rest of the country have already been awarded (with a large
response from prospective suppliers, as over 100 bids had
been received for the country's eight regions).
(c)   Regulation, Tariffs and Taxes:  A new franchise contract for
TELMEX has beets prepared, for discussion with TELMEX's
prospective shareholders. Rules and regulations for
licensing telecommunications networks and services, which
would define the rules of the game to all firms interested
in competing in these markets have also been drafted.
TELMEX tariffs have been substantially restructured (January
1990) increasing on average by more than 702 and
significantly reducing cross subsidies (para. 63) and, while
there is still room for some fine tuning, the present tariff
structure would allow TELMEX to internally finance about 802
of its 1990 investment plan. And;
(d)   Divestiture of SCT's Operations:  While SCT will retain and
develop its policy and regulatory responsibilities, all its
telecommunications operating functions have now been
transfered to a new decentralized state enterprise,
TELECOMM/10, and a competent management team has been
appointed to run it.
69.    Finally, the collective contract with TELMEX's union was
successfully renegotiated in April 1989, overcoming long standing
problems that had limited management's freedom to run the company as a
business. However, while in the case of road transport most of the
important steps have already been taken, in the telecommunications
sector some important reforms still have to be implemented.
PART III - BANK STRATEGY
A. Government Strategy
70.    After six years of falling per capita income and a protracted
stabilization and adjustment process, the Government's main objective is
the restoration of sustainable economic growth. To achieve this
objective, macroeconomic stability had to be consolidated and the burden
of the country's external debt overhang had to be credibly reduced so as
to restore investor confidence. The ongoing stabilization program has
brought down inflation from an annual 159Z to about 202 in 1989. The
debt rescheduling was also satisfactorily concluded in March 1990
(paras. 21-22); the debt package has been supported by the IMF and the
10,    Presidential decree of November 17, 1989.  Some of the services
taken over by TELECOMM may be privatized, e.g. the small packet-switched
network and the telex service. SCT's reservations network, also small,
established in 1985 as a decentralized agency, would be privatized
directly; a decree to this effect is being drafted.



- 28 -
Bank (an interest support loan for US$1.26 billion was approved by the
Board on January 30, 1990; see report No. 5235-ME wlhich discusses in
detail the debt agreement between Mexico and the commercial banks).
71.    The Government has stated that growth must be private sector
based, with the Government playing a supportive role by providing
incentives for private sector investment and reallocating public
spending to improve public infrastructure, alleviate poverty and solve
long-neglected problems of the environment. To eliminate the anti-
agriculture bias in the incentive and trade regime, the Government has
resolved to adjust sector policies in agriculture, where reforms in the
past have been lagging behind industry. To prevent inadequate service
levels from becoming a bottleneck for renewed growth, infrastructure
policies will assign prio.ity to the rehabilitation and maintenance of
existing infrastructure (power, water, transportation, irrigation, etc.)
and, where feasible, private sector investment will also be sought. The
Government is also committed to equitable development and is emphasizing
social sector programs, including health, nutrition, education, and
rural development, and the budget for 1990 already includes a sizeable
increase in the share of resources assigned to these sectors. These
programs would be targeted to the truly needy, to reduce the social cost
of adjustment and to address issues of structural poverty. On the
environment, the Government has launched a major initiative to tackle
high priority problems which have been affecting increasingly the health
and living condition of the country's people and its economic growth
potential.
B. Country Assistance Strategy
72.    Given such a comprehensive and balanced Government strategy, the
Bank has a major role to play. Our assistance strategy is based on the
highly successful partnership that the Bank has built up with the
Government over the last few years. Through adjustment lending in
support of structural reforms and increased sector investment lending,
the Bank is giving a signal of confidence so that the inflow of external
capital necessary for growth will be forthcoming.  At the same time,
adjustment lending and credit enhancement by the Bank in support of the
1990 debt package are helping relax Mexico's resource constraint that is
stifling growth. thus playing a major role in helping the country break
out of the macroeconomic and financial bind in which the country finds
itself. That is the main rationale for sustained high levels of Bank
lending with a robust conditionality. After FY91, as the conditions for
growth have been restored, lending would shift away from adjustment
lending to growth-oriented sector investment lending and to social and
environmental projects.
73.    In support of the Government's program to consolidate macro
economic stability and to restore growth, the Bank's strategy would
pursue the following objectives: (a) consolidation of the stabilization
effort; (b) support of incentives for efficiencylprivate sector led
growth, including the necessary infrastructure investments, particularly
in transport, power, agriculture and urban services; (c) poverty



- 29 -
alleviation/improved social services; (d) environmental protection; and
(e) secure continued access to external resources.
74.    The above outlined assistance strategy and sectoral objectives
will be implemented with the help of sustained high levels of Bank
lending to Mexico over the medium term, which would be maintained at
US$2 billion per year. Such high levels of new commitments would, of
course, hinge on the maintenance of a consistent macroeconomic
environment and on thie depth and quality of MexLco's further sttuctural
reforms. As 61X of Bank lending to Mexico has been in support of
adjustment and debt reduction in FYs88-90, it is the Bank's intention to
cut back on quick-dinbursing adjustment operations and, in a manner
consistent with the requirements of the recovery of economic growth,
focus on sector investment operations which are designed to support
agreed investment programs in high priority sectors. To keep resource
transfers at adequate levels, the Bank and the Government are currently
reviewing the requirements of time slice financing, which would be an
essential feature of the sector investment operations. To help achieve
the stated objectives of the Bank's country assistance strategy, the
policy content of the proposed lending program would be directed at:
fiscal issues, financial sector efficiency, domestic deregulation, trade
and export development, subsidy control and pricing issues, improved
public sector and parastatal enterprise management, decentralization and
deconcentration of the public sector, social welfare and poverty
programs, and envirounmental measures. As a result of recent high levels
of Bank lending to Mexico, the Bank would, under the proposed US$2
billion annual lending scenario, increase its exposure by US$5.55
billion by 1994. Mexico's share in the Bank's total disbursed and
outstanding loans would reach a peak of 11.82 at end-FY91 and decline
slowly thereafter.
C. Bank Rationale for the Proposed Loan
75.    As noted in preceding paragraphs, the Government of Mexico has
moved very far in the implementation of a program of adjustment designed
to reduce the involvement of the public sector in activities which can
be conducted more efficiently by private enterprises and to provide a
liberalized legal and institutional framework which promotes private
investment and competition. The reforms already implemented and
supported by the Bank in the trade regime, financial sector and industry
and the program of divestiture of public enterprises reflect these
objectives, and the project now proposed complements and reinforces
these adjustments efforts by extending them to two sectors of strategic
importance: road transport and telecommunications. The e sectors
provide services which are vital to business development and,
particularly, to trade. As already discussed (para. 37), elimination of
constraints to entry and of price controls in trucking have already
taken place and deregulation of the automotive industry also is ahead of
the agreed schedule (para. 41). In the case of telecommunications, the
Bank played an important role in helping to shape the Government
program, which goes far beyond what had been expected only one year ago.
The privatization of TELMEX, one of the largest parastatals in Latin



- 30 -
America, and the opening up of the telecommunications market to private
(including foreign) investment are unprecedented steps in Mexico. These
measures, and the additional actions proposed under the project, would
make transportation and telecommunications services much more efficient.
They, therefore, justify the Batnk's assistance to the Government's
decision to extend its adjustment efforts to transportation and
telecommunications. Furthermore, the depth and comprehensiveness of the
adjustment efforts that Mexico is undertaking and the need to help
restore growth, still limited by a balance of payments constraint (at a
time when access to external financial markets is still very
constrained), justify a significant level of adjustment lending and
provide the basis for having framed the proposed operation as a sector
adJustment loan.
D.   Transportation
76.    In the road transport sector, the proposed project would monitor
the implementation of the deregulation measures already announced, and
would promote additional measures, as outlined below:
(a)   Open Entry?  Much progress has already been made in
providing open entry into the transport industry by
replacing restrictive concession requirements by a simple
and open system of permit awards, eliminating corridor and
freight center restrictions, opening access into cargo
handling and drayage services and introducing competition in
the movement of containers. Also, a plan of action has been
developed under which the Government will seek agreement
with every state where this is warranted to deregulate
trucking within its jurisdiction. This is expected to be
fully achieved by March 31, 1991. In addition, :mprovement
of customs operations, which would have a high economic
significance for international trade and trucking, would be
sought under an Export Promotion Project which is now in an
advanced stage of preparation.
(b)   Official Tariffs:  On this important issue, all the actions
that the Bank sought have been already taken, as tariffs are
now freely negotiated by the truckers and their customers.
(c)   Highway Safety and Environment:  While highway safety is an
important concern in its own right, in the future attention
to safety will be particularly important since the issue may
be used as a justification for the reintroduction of
trucking industry regulations. To improve highway safety,
we have agreed with the Government on:



- 31 -
(1)   completion of phase I of the study, which is already
under way (para. 45), on vehicle sizes and loadings
and initiation of phases II and III:111 and
(2)   the presentation of a satisfactory action plan to
improve road safety, as a condition of second tranche
release.
To address the air pollution caused by trucks (para. 47), by
second tranche release, the Government would issue
satisfactory regulations requiring mandatory periodic
inspection of trucks to monitor compliance with federal
e ission standards. It is now expected that such
inspections would be conducted through private service
stations.
(d)   Pricing and cost recovery:
(1)   The analyeis of cost recovery from truckers indicates
that they have not been paying for all the maintenance
and improvements costs which they cause to the road
network. One of the main reasons has been that the
price of diesel did not include an adequate surcharge
through which to recover costs. This distortion has
now been partially corrected, but cost recovery is
still only about 50Z and, consequently, further
actions are still necessary to achieve full cost
recovery (para. 48). The Government has now confirmed
to the Bank its commitment to achieve full cost
recovery. For second tranche release significant
progress should have have been achieved through an
increase of not less than 102 (in real terms) in the
price of diesel fuel; and
(2)   To ensure that the distribution of cargo between
competing modes (road and railway) is conducted on the
basis of the "right' price signals (which is
necessary to ensure an efficient allocation of
investment resources between the modes), the
Government has advised the Bank that it intends to
adjust FERRONALES rates so as to align them with long
run variable costs (para. 49). For second tranche
release the Government should furnish to the Bank the
study on railway rates initiated under the Public
Enterprise Reform loan, which will provide an improved
data base for rate setting. In addition, for second
tranche release FERRONALES should have approved
increases (to become effective not later than January
11/    Phase I refers essentially to data collection; phases II and III
to the development of policy options.



- 32 -
1. 1991) of not less than 252 (in real terms), or to
long run variable cost levels, in the rates for the
transportation of selected commodities and goods,
which account for about 70? of the traffic. This
increase would bring most of them to the required
level, so that further real adjustment requirements
would be limited to few commodities.
(e)   HiLhway maintenance:  Since 1982 Mexico has been facing a
mounting shortfall in highway maintenance, which will be
reflected in increased operating costs for trucking in the
coming years (paras. 51-52). To help address this problem,
in 1987 the Bank made a US$135 million loan to finance a
Highway Maintenance Projett (Loan 2875-ME) but the
achievements sO) far have been very modest. Within a
framework of fiscal discipline, much more can be done to
address this problem than at present. Under the proposed
project, the Government furnished a general policy
declaration on the priority of maintenance expenditures over
new construcLion and approved an increase of Mex$ 155
billion (i.e., about 40Z) in SCT's 1990 budget for highway
maintenance activities. At negotiations, it was agreed that
presentation to Congress of a satisfactory budget proposal
for CY91 (which should further increase by Mex$ 45 billion
over the revised CY 1990 level to Hex$ 475 billion in 1990
prices, and should also provide that at least 402 of the
allocation for maintenance is for routine maintenance) would
be a condition of second tranche release.
E. Telecommunications
77.    In the case of telecommunications, the Bank has an opportunity to
play a valuable role at a critical juncture, when changes of a scope
that would have been impossible to expect only a year ago are now being
undertaken. We have a strong base to start from. First, a good high-
level dialogue on policy matters has built up from 1988, and the
Government's economic team, and now also SCT, are very interested in the
views of Bank staff and consultants. Second, SCT and SHCP recognize
that, should the Bank endorse the package of sector reforms and
implementation plans, this would add confidence to potential (especially
foreign) investors interested in TELMEX. Third, and perhaps most
importantly, the Government is interested that the Bank help them in the
critically important initial stages of reform implementation. The
latter includes developing an effective regulatory process. Lastly,
loan conditionality would add a degree of stability to the package of
agreed reforms and initial implementation plans.
78.    The progress achieved in the past few months towards developing
new policies and defining the desired structure for the sector has been
excellent and the key political commitments have been made.  SHOP has
taken firm control of the process of selling TELMEX and has appointed
the investment bank that will advise them and conduct the sale, and a



- 33 -
satisfactory plan and timetable have been developed for this. A new
franchise agreement and regulations for competition have already been
drafted. However, SCT is still short of experienced staff and resources
to address the development of sector regulation at an appropriate level
and pace and consequently has engaged consultants, that will be funded
under the proposed Telecommunications Technical Assistance project, to
assist them in this field.
79.    An effective regulatory process and the necessary institutional
adjustments can only be built up over tinme and as experience develops
among all major players. For example, price regulation for those
services that TELMEX will continue to provide on a monopoly basis is
likely to require development of cost accounting by TELMEX and related
guidelines by SCT. Under price cap regulation (as used in the U.K. for
British Telecom and in the U.S. for AT&T) it will still be necessary to
review the caps from time to time, at which time the profitability (or
lack thereof) of TELMFX will need to be taken into account. Even some
of the formal changes (i.e., devise of dispute resolution procedures,
including controversies over access and pricing) cannot be rushed.
Although the current telecommunications law gives the government enough
latitude to proceed with the planned reforms, at some point it will be
necessary to prepare new legislation better suited to the new policies,
but this may well be several years from now.
80.    At negotiations, agreemenit was reached on the following conditions
for the telecommunications sector:
(a)   Privatization.   As a condition for second tranche release,
there should be satisfactory further progress in the
privatization of TXLMEX (which would be monitored against
the plan already furnished to the Bank, which includes a
timetable for the key steps in the process), including
teceipt of bids for a controlling interest in the company as
well as an award decision by the Government.
(b)   Regulation.  Prior to second tranche release, (i)
consultants should be engaged, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, to assist SCT to develop its
regulatory capacity, (ii) the Government should enact
satisfactory regulations governing the licensing of
telecommunications networks and services, and (iii) a
satisfactory regulatory at   a plan, that takes account of
the recommendations of the consultants that have been
engaged to assist SCT in thiz field, should have been
furnished to the Bank.
(c)   Divestiture of SCT's Operations.  Before second tranche
release, a business plan for TELECOMM, including investment
and financing plans until 1994, which should be satisfactory
to the Bank, should be furnished to the Bank.



- 34 X
PART IV - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Background
81.    The Bank has had a close involvement with Mexico's transportation
sector, dating back to the first highway project, approved in 1960. In
that context, concerns about the net benefits of the regulatory
framework for trucking were periodically raised and were topics of
discussion during the annual reviews that took place under two Highway
Sector Projects (one of which is still underway) and extensive sector
work was conducted ove. a period of time spanning at least 15 years.
Under the Industrial Sector Policy Loan, approved in June, 1989, it was
agreed that the Government would conduct a comprehensive study to
identify and remove impediments to competition and efficiency in the
trucking sector and before second tranche release would complete the
study and agree upon a plan of action for its implementation. hlowever,
this was just one of a number of Issues that the project addressed, and
it was not envisaged that the actions to be taken would be as far
reaching as is now beitng proposed.
82.    The Bank's dialogue on telecommunications issues has not been as
close, but over the years we have periodically fielded missions to keep
in touch with sector developments. In a succession of short missions
from mid-1988, the Bank produced an issues and options paper which
opened up the discussion with senior government officials, followed by a
proposed 'minimum package" of sector reforms, which was also handed to
the outgoing administration. This set the framework for the current
programs, which go significantly beyond what had been envisioned under
the minimum package. More recently, the Bank prepared a paper on issues
in the implementation of the sector reforms proposed by the Government,
and has been informally reviewing and discussing sector policies,
TELMEX's franchise, and the process of privatization.
B. Loan Objectives, Benefits and Risks
83.    The proposed loan is part of a program of Bank support to the
Mexican Government's objectives of promoting private sector development
and increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of public sector
institutions so as to enable the resumption of economic growth. The
loan supports a program of reforms in two sectors (road transport and
telecommunications) which have in common that they both provide a vital
service to business activities in general and to external trade in
particular. By providing an appropriate institutional and regulatory
framework, the project is expected to spur competition, thus serving to
increase the efficiency of communications services and--in the case of
teiecommunications--greatly expand its coverage. Resource allocation
would be improved through greater reliance on market forces, and (in the
case of monopolies) on economic criteria for pricing.
84.    The project would be cofinanced by IDB, which is expected to
reco'umend a loan ot $200 million to its Board. IDBs processing is
expected to follow that of the Bank. IDB has already completed its



- 35 -
appraisal of the project and Board presentation is scheduled for
June/July 1990. Coordination between the two institutions has been
close.
85.    Th&  project would be supported by a parallel free standing
technical assistance (T.A.) loan for telecommunications of US$22 million
equivalent. The T.A. loan would finance consultants to prepare plans
for developing SCT's telecommunications regulatory capacity, including
management and monitoring of the radio spectrum, as well as long term
experts, training and equipment (computer hardware and software, and
radio monitoring facilities) required for the first two years'
implementation of these plans. The technical assistance loan would also
support TELECOMM in its start-up phase.
86.     At negotiations, the Government furnished to the Bank a policy
letter, which is provided in Annex IV. The agreed policy matrix is also
attached (Annex I).
87.    If the objectives outlined in para. 83 are achieved, the benefits
accruing from the project would be significant: the quality of road
transportation would improve and costs would drop, benefitting users in
general and particularly those which make more intensive use of
transportation, such as those engaged in foreign trade. Also,
competition in various telecommunications services should result in
better quality services to consumers and greater receptivity to
technological change, both of which should improve the ability of
Mexican firms to communicate with and compete in world markets. In
addition, private ownership of TELMEX should remove present financial
and other constraints to a faster pace of sector growth, rapidly
expanding availability of telephone and more advanced services.
Furthermore, greater reliance on market mechanisms for price setting
should improve resource allocation and eliminate a source of corruption.
Finally, improved regulation and enforcement of safety and environmental
standards and of weight loads should bring about security and health
benefits to large segments of the population.
88.    There are, however, risks which also deserve to be highlighted.
First, it is important to ensure that the divestiture of the
Government's controlling interest in TELMEX is *well" handled, since
this is the largest parastatal to be privatized in Mexico and all
aspects of the operation will be particularly scrutinized by opponents
to the Government's privatization policies. Errors in this respect
could jeopardize subsequent privatization attempts in other sectors.
Second, the (,vernment does not now have staff with adequate experience
to regulate public utilities, and the regulatory framework is still in
an inception stage. The Bank and the Government should resist the urge
to rush into solutions that have not been adequately thought through.
Third, there are practical and financial limits to the pace at which
investments in telephone services may proceed, even under private
ownership. The Goverrment should avoid developing undue expectations,
which later may result in disappointment with the result of
privatization.



- 36 -
89.    The risks discussed above seem manageable, and are outweighed by
the benefits of the proposed course of action. Of greater significance,
however, may be the risks that either for external or internal reasons
Mexico may be unable to stay the course of economic reforms. But even
if that were to occur, which today does not appear too likely (even
though there are still many uncertainties), the policy reforms that the
proposed project would support would have a good chance of staying in
place and yielding substantial benefits to the economy.
C. The Borrower, the Guarantor and Project Implementation.
90.    The Government has designated BANOBRAS as the borrower of the
proposed loan, in line with its function as Mexico's official financial
agent for infrastructure sector loans. The loan would be guaranteed by
the Mexican Government, and SCT would be responsible for project
implementation.
D. Disbursements, Procurement, Administration and Auditing
91.    The loan would be released in two tranches, of US$190 million
each. The first traniche would become available upon loan effectiveness,
and the second tranche after November 15. 1990 and upon the fulfillment
of specific conditions for tranche release. The closing date of the
proposed loan would be June 30, 1991.
92.    The loan proceeds up to US$380 million would be relent on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and will be used to reimburse
100? of the CIF cost of eligible general imports (on the basis of a
negative list that stipulates that goods subject to QRs, goods financed
from other multilateral or bilateral sources, goods intended for luxury
consumption or goods imported for military or paramilitary purposes,
would not be eligible for Bank financing).
93.    Retroactive financing, up to US$76 million (20? of the loan), for
expenditures incurred since February 1, 1990 would be available. Both
private and public sector imports would be eligible for financing.
Individual contracts under US$5 million equivalent each would be (i)
awarded by public sector agencies on the basis of their established
procurement procedures which have been found acceptaable to the Bank; and
(ii) awarded by private sector importers in accordance with established
commercial practice and, when they are over US$1 million, providing
evaluation and comparison of price quotations obtained from eligible
suppliers from at least two countries, except where direct contracting
is permissible under the circumstances described in paragraph 3.5 of the



- 37 -
Bank's procurement guidelines.AY Individual contracts exceeding US$5
millinra equivalent in value would be awarded following simplified IOB
procedures in accordatnce with Bank guidelines.
94.    Except for contracts awarded through simplified ICB, disbursements
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOE) from Banco
de Mexico detailing individual import transactions in each relevant
period, and certifying their eligibility under the loan. The minimum
value for each request for disbursement would be US$20 million
equivalent and the minimum value of each import transaction would not be
less than USS1O,000.
95.    BANOBRAS would provide to the Bank quarterly reports prepared by
their auditors, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
verifying that all conditions governing the elligibility of the imports
that the Bank financed during the period had been met. Detailed
documentation evidencing expenditures claimed under SOE would be
retained by Banco de Mexico and made available to independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. Complete auditors' reports would be submitted
to the Bant within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
E. Loan Effectiveness and Conditions of Tranche Release
96.    Loan effectiveness would be conditional upon BANOBRAS entering
into contractual arrangements with the Government, which are
satisfactory to the Bank, for relending the proceeds of the loan.
97.    Second tranche release would be contingent upon:
(a)   satisfactory assessment of the medium term macroeconomic
framework (para. 27);
(b)   actions to improve road safety (para. 76(c)):
(i) completion of Phase I of the study on vehicle sizes
and loadings and initiation of Phases II and III; and
(ii) presentation of a satisfactory action plan to improve
road safety;
(c)   issuance of regulations requiring periodic inspection of
trucks to monitor compliance with environmental standards
(para. 76(c));
121    Under the adjustment loans that were approved by the Board on June
1989 the Bank conducted a review of public and private sector
procurement practices and found them to be acceptable. Because the time
elapsed since that review was short, for this operation we conducted an
update based on a representative sample of firms, which verified that
our prior assessment remains valid.



- 38 -
(d)   actions to further improve transport pricing and cost
recovery (para. 76(d)):
(i) satisfactory compliance with commitments to
significantly improve cost recovery from trucks
through an increase of 10 (in real terms) in the
price of diesel fuel, and
(ii) furnish to the Bank the completed study on railway
rates, currently under way, and increase FERRONALES
rates for cargo transport for selected commodities
which account for about 702 of cargo revenues by not
less than 252 (in real terms), such increase to be
effective not later than January 1, 1991, provided
however that rates would not be increased beyond the
level of long run variable costs;
(e)   presentation to Congress of a satisfactory budget proposal
for highway maintenance for FY91 (increasing by Mex$ 45,000
million, in real terms, over the revised 1990 !evel to an
amount equivalent to not less than Mex$ 475   .lion in 1990
prices) and also providing that at least 402 of the budget
would be for routine maintenance (para. 76(e));
(f)   satisfactory progress towards the sale of a controlling
interest in TELMEX, including receipt of bids and award
decision (para. 80(a));
(g)   engagement of consultants, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, to assist SCT to develop its
regulatory capacity, enactment of satisfactory regulations
governing the licensing of telecommunications networks and
services, and presentation of a satisfactory action plan to
strengthen SCT's regulatory capabilities in
telecommunications (para. 80(b)); and
(h)   presentation of a satisfactory business plan (including
financial and investment programs through 1994) for TELECOMM
(para. 80(c)).
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. Sectoral Composition of Bank Lending
98.    As of March 31, 1990, Mexico had received 121 loans from the Bank,
amounting to US$15.4 billion net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 82 loans, totalling US$7.5 billion, were fully disbursed and
US$2.7 billion remained undisbursed. The Bank's exposure was US$9.1
billion on a cash basis. The sectoral composition and policy content of
past lending, as well as the design of major new lending operations, are
discussed below for key areas of the Mexican economy in which the Bank



- 39 -
has been active over the years. Additional information on the portfolio
is provided in Annex II.
Agriculture
99.    Because of the crucial importance of agriculture for the one-
third of the country's population living in rural areas, some 27Z of the
Bank's past lending has supported agricultural development, and nine
operations are currently under supervision. The Bank's lending program
in agriculture is aimed at: (a) helping correct the incentive regime in
agriculture through gradual reductions in input subsidies and export
controls; (b) promoting more efficient and rational use of natural
resources supported by improved technologies and services; (c)
generating employment-intensive investments in rural areas and effective
assistance to small farmerss and (d) creating an integral framework for
sound rural development. To support these goals, the Bank made a US$300
million Agriculture Sector Loan in FY88, and has since made a loan for
investment in agricultural marketing and storage facilities, and another
for forestry development. Additional operations are planned to support
further policy adjustment in agriculture, technology development,
rehabilitation of the irrigation infrastructure, including improved cost
recovery and maintenance operations, and for food security and poverty
alleviation.
Trade
100.   About 12? of past Bank lending has been for trade, and two loans
remain under supervision. Two trade policy loans of US$500 million each
were made in FY87 and FY88 in support of the Government's sweeping trade
reforms. These operations supported the reduction of non-tariff
barriers (quotas and official reference prices) and rationalization of
the tariff system (reduced levels and dispersion). The Bank supported
the development of non-oil exports through two export development
operations in FY83 and FY87. These loans were intended to strengthen
the supply response by Mexican industry to the new trade policy signals.
A US$500 million Industrial Sector Policy Loan in FY89, the second
tranche of which was released in early 1990, has supported additional
trade measures designed to liberalize imports and rationalize the
incentive regime in key subsectors. Further trade reform measures are
under consideration, which would strengthen the temporary import regime,
provide further support to indirect exporters, assure automatic access
to finance by exporters under the various credit programs, streamline
financial and administrative procedures, and seek further reductions in
export controls.
Industry and Finance
101.   Some 281 of the Bank's lending has supported industry, and
currently eleven projects are under supervision. The Bank's lending
strategy for industry, covering small-and medium-scale industry, mining,
the capital goods industry, industrial restructuring and technology
development, is designed to support industrial restructuring, regulatory



- 40 -
reform, clarification of foreign investment rules, and export promotion
to assure a vigorous supply response to trade liberalization and
increased international competitiveness. The FY89 US$500 million
Industrial Sector Policy Loan and US$500 million Parastatal Enterprise
Reform Loan have provided support for policy reform in industry, for the
more efficient management and privatization of public enterprises,
restructuring of the fertilizer, steel, automotive parts, textile, and
flower sectors, and other key private industrial subsectors
demonstrating a capacity for undertaking integrated restructuring
operations. In the financial sector, the Bank's operations have
supported the strengthening of competition and the restructuring of
financial intermediaries. An adljustment operation in FY89, the US$500
million Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, has been providing support for
the liberalization of the financial sector, elimination of forced
lending to the Government at subsidized rates, increasing competition
among banks and brokerage houses and improving regulations in the
banking sector. The second tranche release conditions have been met
under all three adjustment operations.
Infrastructure and Energy
102.   Lending for transportation, power and water accounts for 22Z of
the Bank's total in Mexico, with fourteen projects currently under
supervision. Lending for infrastructure is focussing on institutional
development (including attracting private funding to the sector),
decentralization, more efficient public investment allocation, and
improved cost recovery. Recent Bank loans supported urban transport and
the power and ports sub-sectors. In the power sector, special
importance was attached to the achievement of financial self sufficiency
through improved pricing policies, to least-cost expansion planning and
to the consideration of environmental factors in project selection and
project implementation. In transportation, emphasis was placed on
obtaining more realistic user fees and deferring all but the highest-
yielding investment projects so as to permit a minimum of budgetary
outlays. Proposed loans would support the Government's initiatives for
private sector development, decentralization, cost-based pricing, and
managerial improvements. Loans are at an advanced stage of preparation
for water supply and sewerage, and urban transport.
Housing and Others
103.   The Bank has lent some 11Z of its total for tourism, urban
development, housing and vocational training. Currently three housing
loans are under supervision. Government housing programs are designed
to improve cost recovery. A Housing Finance loan under execution is
supporting graduated loan cost recovery linked to the income of final
borrowers, thus ensuring a reduced drain on the budget. Another housing
project, focusing on low-income beneficiaries, has recently been
approved.



- 41 -
Social Sectors and Environment
104.   The Bank is assisting the Government in redesigning public health,
education, and human resource programs to make them more cost effective
and targi'ed to meet the needs of the poor. A proposed health project
would support decentralization measures, finance new primary health
facilities, and strengthen professioual services. Similar initiatives
are being pursued in education and nutrition. A pilot project in
execution is improving the well-being of women in low-income areas. It
includes the provision of piped water, health and educational services
training for productive activities, and credit for launching new
microenterprises. These targeted operations would be followed by
broader programs, once the institutional conditions and capacity for
project implementation can support a larger Bank presence.
105.   The Bank is also preparing an air pollution operation in the
Federal District, which would tackle urban transport related causes, and
has amended an ongoing loan (Loan 2824-ME) to support immediate relief
measures requiring investments. With strong Government commitment,
other future operations would address industry related causes of air
pollution in the Federal District, technical assistance for investment
evaluation and institutional strengthening in the environmental area and
strengthened environmental components in investment loans. Soil erosion
and water conservation programs would also be supported. As soon as the
policy framework and suitable institutional arrangements are in place
the Bank would consider loans for sector-wide environmental programs in
support of remaining policy issues.
B. IFC Operations
106.   The IFC has worked with the Bank to:  (i) identify private sector
investment opportunities likely to thrive in the current climate of
growth-oriented adjustment and greater integration with the world
economy; and (ii) assist in strengthening the country's capital markets
through economic sector work and venture capital operations. As of
March 31, 1990, the IFC had invested US$1,129.2 million in 40 companies
in Hexico, of which US$782.3 million had been sold, repaid, or
cancelled. Additional information on IFC's portfolio is provided in
Annex II, page 2.
PART VI - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF
107.   Bank/IMF collaboration has been close over the years, especially
since 1982, when the Fund supported the Government to help address the
underlying causes of the economic crisis. Since that time, the
Government has benefitted from an extended arrangement of SDR 3.4
billion, a special emergency drawing for SDR 291 million after the 1985
earthquake, a stand-by for SDR 1.4 billion in 1986 and, in 1989, for an
SDR 2.8 billion extended arrangement through 1992 and a drawing of SDR
453 million under the compensatory financing facility. Extensive
consultations have taken place between Fund and Bank staff concerning



- 42 -
Mexico's economic situation and prospects, covering fiscal, monetary,
financial and exchange and interest rate policies.
108.   Since the approval by the Fund's Board of the current extended
arrangement on May 26, 1989, consultations have continued between the
two institutions to monitor macroeconomic performance, adjustment
measures and further structural reforms so as to meet the objectives of
the Government's agreed growth oriented program. To date, the Mexican
Government has purchased under the extended arrangement an amount
equivalent to SDR 1.45 billion, including SDR 466.2 million in
augmentation of resources, based on economic performance through the end
of 1989. A recent Fund mission to Mexico reviewed recent developments
and policy intentions and prospects and agreed on targets for 1990.
109.   The Fund has also contributed to Mexico's debt reduction program
through the SDR 2.8 billion extended arrangement in the form of set
asides and through an augmentation of the arrangement in an amount of
SDR 466.2 million, equivalent to 40? of Mexico's quota. Set asides
under the extended arrangement and the augmentation of resources amount
to a total of SDR 1.3 billion, which is roughly equivalent to US$1.7
billion. Of this total amount, some US$1.2 billion had been released by
early 1990. The remaining US$443 million would oe available early in
1991 and 1992, after scheduled regular consulte ions have taken place.
These funds would be used for the collateral c interest payments of
exit bonds, replacing a commercial bank bridg,- loan made available in
early 1990 for purposes of credit enhancement under Mexico's debt
package.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
110.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
May 3, 1990
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
UEXICO - NW1 TR1WNDT AND TELECCUMICATIWS SECTOR ADJUSIfNT PRCJECT
Policy Matrix
Actions to be Taken
ObieCtives                           Actions Already Taken                         by Second Trnache
I.  SCT
1.   Improve the institutional           A modernization unit has been set-up to
arrangemnt., organization,             undertake the reorganization.
staffing and training for
regulatory activities within SCT.
. Developed and substantially Implemented
* plan to reorganize SCT's functions In
the trucking sector.
Consultants should be engaged to
strengthen SCT s regulatory capacity
in the telecom _unicat;ons sector.
Satisfactory action plan to
strengthen SCT's regulatory capacity
In the telecoemunications sector
should be furnished
II. Road Transport
2.   Eliminate regulatory barriers       Eliminated system of concssion.
to competition and efficiency.           Eliminated system of route
restrictions.
Eliminated systom of freight centers.
Eliminated Multimodal's monopoly on
multi- modal transport.
. Eliminated restrictions to access Into
cargo handling.
. Eliminated restrictions on
"maquiladoraes to own and operate their
own trucks.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
Eliminoted restrictions on return
load;n of international containers.
. Devoloped a plan of action to enter
into trucking deregulation grseoments
with all states.
S. Allow trucking prices to be           Eliminated 15S surcharge on imported
determined by market forces, and       goodC
eliminate distortions on cost.
. Eliminated Government involvement In
sotting tariffs.
. Eliminated preferential tax treatomnt
for truckers.
. Provided commitment to schieve full          Increase diesel fuel prices by 10O
cost recovery from truckers and Increased    (in rel term) so es to
dioesl price  by C.8%.                        significantly Improve  cost recovory
from truckers.                                    4.
4. Ensure that the price of              Provided commitment to odjust                 Furnish to the Dank a compl-ted
competing mode (railways) is baed      FERROMALES rates for key commodities to       study of railway rates based on
on econotic criteria),                  long run variable cost levels and            economic criteria and increaso
approved a More agile system for rate        FERRONALES rates for key coodities.
revision. Initiated study to lmprove         which account for 705 of cargo
data base for tariff setting decisions,       revenue, by 25  (in real terms) or
to long run variable costs; such
increas to becomo effective not
later than January 1, 1991.
S. Improve allocation of highway         Provided commitmont to Increase highowy
exponditures.                          mintenance budgets, taking Into account
macroeconomic constraints.
Increased SCT'* budget for mintenance        Submit budgot proposal for highway
expenditures In 1990 by MexS 156 billion.   maintenance for 1991, further
increasing It by Next 46 billion (in
real terms); of the total at least
401 should be for routine
maintenance.



ANNEX I
Page 8 of 4
6.  Improve quality and enforcement       Strengthened group to coordinate saiety
of necessary regulations for            policies.
safety, weight controls and
environmont.
Started study on vehicle sizes and            Complete first phose and initiate
loadings,                                     second and third phases (policy
recoamendations) of study.
Present satisfactory action plan to
improve road safety.
Drafted regulations requiring periodic       . Issue regulations requiring
inspection of trucks to monitor               periodic inspection of trucks to
compliance with environmental standards       monitor compliance with environmental
and initiated a program to Improve fuel       standards.
quality.
III.  Telecommunications                                                                                                                  UZ
M. Teeomniain                                                                                                                           L
7. Promote increased private              Public announcement of policy goals in
sector participation and                sector, including promoting competition
competition In telecommunications,      and privatizing TELMEX.
Engagement of investment bankers to
handle sale of TELMEX's shares. Engaged
foreign investment banker to assist in
handling sale.
Prepared program and timetable for
handling privatization of TELMEX.
Furnished a satisfactory draft
franchise.                                      Satisfactory progress towards sale
of a controlling interest in TELMEX,
Including receipt of bids and award
decision by Government.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
Awarded concessions for cellular
telephony In Federal District and In rest
of the country.
Issue regulations governing the
licensing of tolocomunications
networks and services.
S.  Iprove resource allocation in       . Rates oere adjusted in January 1990,
the market for tolecoemunications       reducing cross subsidies end incressing
servieas.                               average lovol by 70X
. Tax trer --'qt of seetor has been
rea igned.
9.  Improve the efficiency of           . Decree setting up TELECOMM has beon
sector Institutions.                    issud, and SCT's operating functions
havo boon transforod to TELECOW.
Furnished a statement of TELECOMM             Furnish satisfactory business plan               4
policy and objectives.                        (including investment and financing)                O
for TELECOMM.
IV. Macroeconomic Masngoent
10.  Macroeconomic consistoncy.                                                       . Satisfactory assessment of the
medium tem macroeconomic frauovork.



- 47 -
STAIUS OF BANO   GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO                   AN=  II
____-__ ------__--_--_--__ --_--_                   Page 1 of 2
A. STATEMENT OF OANM LOANS
(As of March 81, 190)
Amount In USS millon
(les  cancellation)
Credit/         Fiscal                                              -----------------
Loon No.         Year      Borrower          Purpo                Bank          IDA       Undicbursed
82 loans fully disbursed                                          7,489.68
Of which SECAL., SALa, and Program Loans a)
Ln. 1929-ME      1061   BANOBRAS       Rail way IV                  149.88
Ln. 2428-ME      1984   SANOSRAS       Highway Sector II           200.90
Ln. 2882-ME      1966   BANCOMEXT    Trade Plcy Ln IS              600.00
Subtotal                                                       849.88
Ln. 1706-5-ME    1979   NAFIN          Irrigation                   81.80                      14.28
Ln. 18S8-S-ME    1980   NAFIN          Irrigatlon                   64.40                      12.61
Ln. 2281-ME      1988   BANOBRAS       Third Water Supply           100.80                     19.02
 Ln. 2331-ME      1983   BANCOMEXT    Export Development            860.W0                       0.67
Ln. 2428-ME      1984   SANOBRAS       Highways                    200.00                      66.80
Ln. 2460-ME      1984   BANPESCA       Ports                        88.25                      20.00
Ln. 2516-ME      1985   NAFIN          Chiapas Agric. Dev.          68.00                      40.71
in. 2546-ME      1986   NAFIN          Sm/Med Mining II             105.00                     17.10
in. 2569-ME      1985   NAFIN          Vocational Educ              81.60                      13.79
Ln. 2676-ME      1985 6   ANOBRAS      Railways V                   800.00                    138.61
Ln. 2812-ME      1986   BANOBRAS       Low Inceme Housing I         160.00                      4.10
Ln. 26568-ME     1986   NAFIN          Proderith II                 88.80                      69.88
Ln. 2686-ME      1986   BANOBRAS       Earthquake Rehab            400.00                      14.74
Ln. 2666-ME      1986   BANOBRAS       Municipal Strength           40.00                      86.18
Ln. 2669-ME      1986   BANOBRAS       Solid Waste Pilot            26.00                      18.57
3 Ln. 2746-ME      1987   BANCOMEXT    Trade Policy Loan I           SO.00                        7.22
Ln. 2746-ME      1987   NAFIN          Industrial Recovery          160.00                     19.74
Ln. 2747-ME      1987   V'FIN          Technology Dcv               48.00                      31.82
s Ln. 2777-ME      1987    - COMEXT    Export Dev II                 250.00                      12.48
Ln. 2824-ME      1987    bmwiOSRAS     Urban Transport              126.00                     91.23
Ln. 2887-ME      1987   NAFIN          Agricultural Credit         400.60                      10.10
Ln. 2868-ME      1987   NAFSN          Sm/ed Industry IV            100.00                     86.00
Ln. 2869-ME      1987   NAFIN          Agric Extension               20.00                     16.61
Ln. 2876-ME      1987   BANOBRAS       Highway Maunt                135.00                    126.00
Ln. 2876-ME      1988   NAFIN          Manpower Training             60.60                     64.67
Ln. 2916-ME      1988   NAFIN          Steel Sctr Restruct         400.00                     264.81
s Ln. 2918-ME      1988   NAFIN          Agric Sector Loan           300.00                       1.99
e Ln. 2919-ME      1988   NAFIN          Fertilizer Sctr Loan        286.00                     109.01
Ln. 2948-ME b>   198    BANOBRAS       Ports Rehab                  50.00                      60.00
Ln. 2947-ME      1988   BANOBRAS       Housing Finance             800.00                     188.19
a Ln. 8047-ME      1989   NAFIN          Industriol Restruct          260.00                    224.98
Ln. 8083-ME      1989   NAFIN          Hydroelectric Dcv           480.00                     413.48
a Ln. 8086-ME      1989   BANCOMEXT    Financial Sctr Loan           600.60                      16.00
* Ln. 8088-ME      1989   NAFIN          Public Ent Restruct          500.00                      1.14
* Ln. 8087-ME      1989   NAFIN          Ind Sctr Policy              600.00                      6.64
Ln. 8101-ME b>   1989   BANOBRAS       Water, Women & Dev           20.00                      20.00
Ln. 8116-ME b>   1990   NAFIN          Forestry Dev                 46.50                      46.60
Ln. 8140-ME      1990   BANOBRAS       Low-Income Housng II         850.00                    824.99
Ln. 8141-ME b>   1990   NAFIN          Agric Mktg II                100.60                    100.00
Total                                                       16,420.13                  2,701.74
Of Which has been repaid                                     3,6839.19
Total now hold by the Bank                                  11,780.94
Amount sold             : 92.34
Of which has been repaid: 92.84
Total Undlsbursed                                            2,701.74                  2,701.74
a> Approved during or after FY60.
b> Not yet effective.
* SAL, SECAL, or Program Loan
EBArevalo:LA2CO
File:MXC0890 (al.o75)
20 April 1990



- 48 -
MEXICO                                    ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 80a   1
(US$ Mllion)
Fiscal                                                                   -Original Approvals         -
Yer           Obligor                         Type of Busines             Loan        Equity       Total
19S8/69        Induetries Perfect
Circle, S.A.  /a             tndustrial Equipmnt           0.80        0.00       0.60
1968           Brlstol de Mexico, S.A.   /a    Aircraft Engine overhaul      0.60        0.00       0.50
19S1           Aceroe Solar, S.A.  /a          Twist Drills                  0.80        0.00       0.80
1962/6/8/8     Fundidors Monterray, S.A.  /o  Steel                          2.80       21.40      28.70
1968           Tubos do Acero de Mexico        Stainles  Steel Pipe.         0.90        0.10        1.00
1963           Quimiae del Roy, S.A.  /a       Sodium Sulphate               0.70        0.00       0.70
1984/86        Industrio  del Hierro, S.A.     Construetion Equipmnt         0.00        2.00        2.00
1970           Miner& del Mortt  /I            Iron Ore Mining               1.60        0.00        1.50
1971           Celones Mexican*, S.A.  /a      Textilos                     12.00        0.00       12.00
1972           Promotors Papsl Periodico,
S.A. do C.V.   /a            Pulp and Poper                0.00          /b         /b
1978/79        C    _metos Veracruz, S.A.     Cemnt                         15.90        0.00       16.90
1974/81        Caneun Aristos Hotel            Tourism                       1.00        0.80        1.80
1976/78        Mexinox, S. A.                  Stainless Steel              12.00        8.20       15.20
1978/81/83     Papol*e Ponderoso, S.A.         Pulp and Paper               10.70        5.00       15.70
1978           Tereftalato. Mexicanos, S.A.   Petrochemical                 19.00        0.00       19.00
1979/81/86     Hotel Caslno Roal Ixtapa, S.A. Tourim                         0.00        4.20       4.20
1979/83        Eupresa  Tolteca, S.A.          Cement                      16S8.00       7.90      175.90
1979           Conductoroe Monterrey, S.A.     Electrical Wire A Cable      18.00        0.00       19.00
1980           Induetries Resistol, S.A.       Particle Bord                26.00        0.00      25.00
1980           Vidrio Piano do Mexico, S.A.   Flat Cloas                   114.90        0.00      114.90
1980           Minor* R"l do Angeles, S.A.    Mining                       110.00        0.00      110.00
1980           Corporecion Agro-
industell S.A.             Agri-Busines                  11.80        3.00      14.80
1981/86       Colulosiceo  Centauro, S.A.      Pulp and Paper               59.60        0.00      59.50
1988           Capital Goods Facility  /a      Capital oo   Financing      100.00        0.00     100.00
1984/87        Metalso, S. A.                  Auto Cheats                   8.00        1.40       9.40
1984          Proteison, S.A. do C.V.          Ag--usine                     2.00        0.80       2.90
1984          Promociones Industrials*
Mexicanas, S.A. do C.V.      Petrohemical                 18.40        0.00      16.40
1986/88        Celuloso y Popel de Durango,
S.A. do C.V.                 Pulp and Paper               10.00        8.10      13.10
1988           Agromx Phase I (AESA)           Vog and Fruit Procesing       1.60        0.50        2.00
1988          C%;casa Constr Guar Foe          Conatr Guarantee Facility    20.00                  20.00
1987           Industries Sulfex,
S.A. do C.V.                 Chlemicl A Petrochemical      2.00        0.60       2.60
1987           Sealed Power do Mexico          Auto As bly                   9.00        0.00       9.00
1987           Crescent Market Aggr9egtes      Construction Material        87.00        0.00      87.00
1988           Spasco, S.A. do C.V.            Cemnt                        46.10        0.00      46.10
1988           Salumi, S.A. do C.V.            Food and Food Processing     20.40        2.00       22.40
1988           Polimar (ABS)  A S. d  C.V.    Petrohem_cal                  14.60        0.00       14.50
1989           Crupo F.x.a/Vins                Consuor Goods Conglmorat   80.00         27.60      107.60
1989           Banco Serfin                    Development Flnance          60.00        0.00       60.00
1989           Cementos Mexicano               Ceont * Conet Materials      68.00        0.00      68.00
1990           Condumex                        Electromanufacturing         60.00                  60.00
Cross Total Comitments                                     1129.20        8.00    1212.20
Loss Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                                     782.80       89.60     821.80
Total Comitments Now Hold by IFC                            848.90       48.50     800.40
Total Undisbured (Including Participents)                   180.14        0.08     180.22
/a Investmenta which have been fully cancelled, terminated,
written off, sold, or rpaid.
/b US26,000.
EBArevas o:LA2CO
IFC Investment:MXC90.U1
May 2, 1990



- 49 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
ROAD TRANSPORT AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN DATA SHEET
SECTION I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the loan           8 months
(b)  Appraisal mission:                                 January 1990
(c)  Completion of Negotiations:                          April 1990
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness:                         June 1990
SECTION II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
SECTION III: Special Conditions
(A) The following are conditions met since appraisal:
(i)    Presentation of a plan to e.,ter into trucking deregulation
agreement with state governments;
(ii)   Actions to improve highway safety;
(a)   strengthening of interagency group;
(b)   initiation of a study to collect information on
vehicle sizes and loadings;
(iii)  Increased SCT's 1990 budget for highway maintenance by 40X;
(iv)   Satisfactory progress in the divestiture of the Government's
shareholdings in TELMEX, including receipt of a draft
franchise and of a program and timetable for the sale of
shares, and engagement of investment bankers;
(B)  The following would be a condition for loan effectiveness: BANOBRAS
should have entered into contractual arrangements with the
Government for re-lending the proceeds of the loan which are
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 96).
(C)  The following are conditions  of second tranche release:
(a)    satisfactory assessment of the medium term macroeconomic
framework (para. 27);



- 50 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b)    actions to improve road safety (para. 76(c));
(i)   completion of Phase I of the study on vehicle sizes
and loadings and init'ation of Phases II and III, and
(ii) presentation of a satisfactory action plan to improve
road safety;
(C)    actions to address the air pollution caused by trucks (para.
76(c)); issuance of regulations requiring periodic
inspection of trucks to monitor compliance with
environmental standards;
(d)    actions to further improve transport pricing and cost
recovery (para. 76(d)):
(i)   satisfactory ctmpliance with commitments to
significantly improve cost recovery from trucks
through 102 real increase in the price of diesel fuel,
and
(ii) furnish to the Bank the completed study on railway
rates and increase FERRONALES rates for selected
commodities which account for about 70S of cargo
revenues by not less than 25? (in real terms), such
increase to be effective not later than January 1,
1991, provided however that rates would not be
increased beyond the level of long run variable costs;
(e)    presentation to Congress of a satisfactory budget proposal
(increasing by Mex$ 45,000 million in real terms over the
1990 level) for highway maintenance for FY91 and also
providing that at least 40X would be for routine maintenance
(para. 76(e));
(f)    satisfactory progress towards the sale of a controlling
interest in TELMEX, including receipt of bids and award
decision (para. 80(a));
(g)    engagement of consultants under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, to assist SCT to develop its
regulatory capacity, enactment of satisfactory regulations
governing the licensing of telecommunications networks and
services and presentation of a satisfactory action plan to
strengthen SCT's regulatory capabilities in
telecommunications (para. 80(b)); and
(h)    presentation of a satisfactory business plan (including
financial and investment programs through 1990) for TELECOMN
(para. 80(d)).



- 51 -                    ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
DRAPT
Mr. Barber Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U. S. A.
Dear Sir:
The Government of Mexico hereby requests a loan from the World
Bank to support its modernization program in transportation and
telecommunications, as described in the National Development Plan for
1989-1994. The Plan establishes that the legal and institutional framework
will be updated, so that the Government will be better able to undertake
its responsibilities to modernize, increase the efficiency and improve the
quality of transportation and telecommunications services as well as
promote competition and avoid the development of monopolies.
Road Transport
In the context of the Plan, on July 6, 1989 the Government issued
new regulations for federal road transportation which allow free entry to
the trucking market and eliminate various provisions which constrained an
efficient market operation. At the same time, new regulations for
multimodal transportation were also issued which will promote increased
competition in this important activity. More recently, further steps were
taken to improve the efficiency of various activities that are auxiliary to
trucking, such as loading and unloading and drayage services, through the
deregulation and promotion of competition. Other regulations that
interfered with market efficiency, such as setting tariff ceilings for
trucking or constraining the ability of in-bond assemblers to transport
their goods with their own truck fleets, were repealed this past January.
We have also decided to allow containters temporarily brought into the
country to transport domestic cargoes on their return trips to ports, which
should foster a better utilization of these containers. Also, during the
next twelve months we intend to reach agreement with the state governments
on measures to align their regulations with the new national framework.
Finally, we have taken steps to reorganize SCT's structure to better
reflect its new role in light of the revised policies in the road transport
sector.
The various measures outlined above redefine the legal framework
for road transportation in Mexico. They will be supported by various
actions in other fields so as to help achieve the final objective, which is
to modernize transportation so that Mexican producers will have access to a
service that is efficient and of good quality.



- 52 -                   ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
Among the further actions considered, we should highlight ongoing
and planned efforts on highway maintenance and rehabilitation. We have
assigned priority in our budget to expenditures for these purposes and we
have already approved an increase that exceeds 402 over the amount that had
originally been planned for this fiscal year. The Government is committed
to continue further increasing the budget for highway maintenance and
rehabilitation, within the constraints imposed by macroeconomic
considerations, until the needs of the network are fully met. This
decision is linked to the Government's present policy to continue
attracting private investment to the road sector, by granting concessions
for the construction and operation of toll roads and bridges; this will
free financial resources so that other needs, particularly highway
maintenance, may be met.
We will seek an improved distribution of cargo transportation
between the railways and the trucking fleet. The distribution should be
based on economic criteria, since this will result in a more efficient use
of installed capacity and will result in a better allocation of future
investments, both public and private. To achieve this, within the context
of the PECE (Stabilization and Economic Growth Program), we will
periodically adjust railway cargo tariffs so as to align them with long run
variable costs as soon as possible. Likewise, we will also periodically
adjust diesel fuel prices and other charges on truckers so that by 1991 the
maintenance and renewal costs which they cause to the highway network are
fully recovered. Recently the Mexican Congress approved changes to the tax
treatment of trucking, which was aligned with the general tax framework for
all business activities, thus improving the equity of the system.
We are particularly concerned about road safety and are
undertaking actions to improve it. Higher expenditures on highway
maintenance should contribute towards this objective. At the same time, we
will encourage truckers to purchase third party liability insurance which
should provide a market incentive to maintain their vehicles in safe
operating conditions.  Likewise, we will increase to realistic levels and
adjust periodically the truckers' responsibility for cargo damages, which
should improve cargo handling. These measures will be complemented by
actions that the Government will undertake to improve highway safety. We
have already set up a coordinating committee of all agencies involved in
road safety issues and have engaged consultants to conduct a study on
vehicle sizes and loads, which should provide a sound basis for the
formulation of future action plans.
Telecommunications
In the telecommunications sector the modernization and expansion
of services will require major investments, and the Government has decided
to attract private capital to the sector. Thus, fiscal resources will be
freed to fund other priority needs, such as health, education and housing.
In this context, we wish to highlight the Government's decision to sell its
shares in TELMEX, so that in the future TELMEX's management and financing
will be in private sector hands. The Government of Mexico is well aware
that technological changes now allow expanded room for competition in the



- 53 -                    ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
telecommunications field, and the regulatory framework will be adjusted so
as to allow and promote competition wherever this proves to be feasible.
Thus, we expect that many firms will be able to develop data transmission
services, cellular telephony and data bank and other services. Towards the
end of 1989 bidding competition for the provision of cellular telephony in
various regions of the country was undertaken and awards were made. The
process confirmed the great initerest of the private sector to operate
telecommunication services.
In order to adequately protect the public interest in the
provision of telephone services, the Government needs to build up its
regulatory capacity and we are developing technical assistance and training
programs for this purpose. As regards to tariffs, the Government will only
set them for services provided under monopoly conditions. In such cases
the tariffs will be based on economic criteria and we will seek to assure a
fair rate of return to the service provider. The Government will also
regulate the tariffs and technical conditions for the interconection
between monopoly and free market services.
Operating responsibilities in the telecommunications sector for
various activities that were being handled by the Ministry of
Communications and Transport have now been transferred to a newly
established independent public enterprise, TELECOMK. This should help
avoid conflicts of interest between the Government's role in policy
formulation and regulation and the provision of services. We expect
TELECOMM to operate as a financially autonomous institution and to be
readily responsive to technological advances.
Best regards,
Pedro Aspe                          Andres Caso Lombardo
Minister of Finance                  Minister of Communications
and Public Credit                    and Transport



MEXICO
ROAD TRANSPORf AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
BASIC MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
low"-S  106.-7o 1971-76 1977-62   a,106    19115   1970   1976   IWO11   MIl   196    1963   1964   1966    am1   1W?7  ason
...................        .          5.93    T. 06    7 46    66so1     is6   6.5 t 91    4.216   aN    06'    -0.63   -4.231   36SS   2.66   -3.661   1 73   1.4
OP 4011.5r................ 6.03    8.66  16 311  29 91 4 IS   2.135  10 93 S 6196    26 73  26 06   60.91  90.5a   69.1is   6.36   74.41  1698   100.13s
Ieflet.a.m Wet.b                ......bcoo~                                             4 OS  27.23  29 66  20.76    90.6 6S0.61S  59.21   61.76  MS. 71  169.23   51.63
OP Vat,w Iet.............. 2.56   S. S3   3. IS   a 71   S. is   3. 01   3.16   1.25   3 46   5.1is   -5.16  -7.66   49.66   -0.13s  -1.46    0.41   461a
comeowipsi  pol  P$   ......... St..36S   6.21   2.96    361S  -1 01   1. 26   A. 46   1. 76   4 91   4.61    -1 46   9. 11   0.26  -0.611  -7.73  -0 91  -2.210
AgeS Iaedm.tji.1Wa sos........... 1.86    5. 13   4.01   -1.16    1.?3   6 91   066   10.66N  -4 461   1.21    .1.96  -26.06   2.960   1.61  -11.21  -4.61  -10.05
Ie~.smt-...s (De. S of or):
Tota1lo 34 N      ...............          16.2   19.6   21 0    26.2   16.0   20.56   22.6   22.3   27 .2   27. 4    22.9   20.6   19.9   21.9   t6. 4   1s-.6   20.6
Wetiomel SeV;"ige..........              14.1   17.5   16.01   21 a   13 4    16.  1.6          165o    22 7   21.9    19.3S  24 4   22.3A   226    17.1a   25.3   18.
6PfC..voa.tM.ut ...........              -2.1   -2.3   -31I   -3 9    -2 6    -2 0    .3 0    -3.6   -4.5   46.5    .36         3 6    2 4     0.7   -1.3    2.6   -1.6
UP (dll.. LOS6):
Cg..r.at Acemet .............(161)  (479) (2.304) (6.418)  (324)  (403) (1.ce60  (3.409) (8.717)(13.646)  (6.290) 5.410  4.239   1.237  (1.673) 5.96   (21.901)
bowf.o f Goad,a manb Feet. 1.#....eo ..   9O   A.964   5.030  16.692   I.=7   1.9119  2.745   6.641 22.902 29.047  26,167 27.179  30.133 27.606  2.6173 2V.614 20,075
Net 1.te1046taf.el mo..1.., (sea p....d)  379    591   1.2S1  2.169    459    57         620    741  4.004   5.035      895  3.676   6.767   3.061  2. 924   9.933   1.773
external Seet. led. "ttape (Pateast);
ExPeru9e  s pool rosh rss,...... .        5B.7    5.2    7.9    99       1.2    360   -5.0   16.6    6 2    11.5    21.7   13.7    6.7   -4.6    3.2   10.1    2.7
oil bpocte ...l g..    rat ..........       ..            0.3   49 9      .       .      ..      .     716    29.5    31.3    5.6    1.1   -6.5   -9.4   -0.3    31.2
lbse-Oil E.sert. mel orewth 1os......       ..           060    2 5       .       ..                   -16S    9 2   -16.2   37.9   29.5   -4.61   3665   31.9  -12.0a
favor"* SNF5 "sool a .93rate.....         90.7    6.2   16 0    27 4    S 9   16.7    0 0    12.7   664    26 6    -.0.         3 9   10.9   -04   -206a   20.2    5.3                         v
Favorst  0 @US/Ce.ml.OMP........16.4    9.3   a00    12 3    11 4                706    6a    7.1   19 7    10.4    16.3   19.0   17 4    is54    17.2   19.7   16 7 
19601tm  IOI roo     5.1.Coo5 ..... .     44    S.7      94      90    2 9    a36    101        1.0   SI19    17.3   -3790  -. ?.  1S? a      it0   -12 4    0.0   861.0
lw.et.ownF5 oibesl gew   vroe..... 110a    6.5   19.5   21.0   15 3    4,7   211    .08    55$.2   30.2   .406 a .36.1   20.0   156a  -11 7    5.7   45.2
1.o,t. of SF5/C.ruentOPC .. .....16.6   It14             956   12 0    13 9    9 6      9 0     9 3    13 0    12.9    10.3    9 4     9.6   10.3   126a   12.6   14 4
Igint@* bloec./ca.et MP.......   1.2   -2.1   -15S    0 3    -2.5   -16    - 25    -2 2    -28S   -2.5                  5 0     916    76      5 .1    4.6    7.1    2.3
Toerm of Trad. lode. (1960. 1 00)  9...    5 7   60.6   63.5  104 9   68.7   66.1   69 4   7b 3   100 0   97 4    6469   77 4   76. 1    72 0   St 4   67 3   56.2
Reel Sedeesi. Ret. led.. (19SD100) b/t/ 115.3  106.3  106.2  111 3  113 9  106.5  104.6  106 3  ICC 0    90.7   134.3  1.S7.5  114.0  I11 7  145 9  151 4  12. 4
Fee..sm Debt lodigetorm, :  DI
Total DOD (Wfillie. 53) ..........              3.514  11.240  U5.132          2.212  4.956  22.177  57.376  78,21S  66.019 92,064   4.09V  "3.07  100.676 109.292 100.290
Peblie O   ...............                    2.2961  ?.546  31.561     .   1.457   2,166  17.6*4  50.073  66.015  77,919  78.164  70.526 61.130 65.773 95.144  92.640
Private OOD d/.............                   1.216  3.694  23.66?             754  2,770   4.343   7.300  30.200   6.100  14.600  16.296  15.745  IS. 103 14.145   7.455
ToteS 000/Ssto. a"5 (S)........                 146.5  211.1  311.3            111.2  1800.   324.2  250 5   261. 3   329.7  342 0  314.7  350 9   41.111   595.6  345 0
Toutl D0D/Curre..t OP (6)  1.......3s0    16 4   37 0                           10.2   12.9   23 3   29 5   31 3    s0 4   62 5   34 0   33 A   77.5   T7.1   57.5
0.5  eoSe.; goOT? ("it 6... 156) o/               363..S    1,275S  6.120        466    691   2.230   7.900  6.532    9.410  11.429  11.275  10.572  0.620  6.73609.661
Debt..,;* eeL6.Tce,pent aP(w) / ...2 1                    190    5 2             21     16a    2 3      4 1    3 4      Sa    7 7    6 4       5 0     66      6 .2    5.5
Debt .a,w-e. OLT/Rover". eqs (S) -/...1          24 0   24 9   45 0             24 5   25.2   32 6   *4 5   29.4    36 0    42 0   37 A   363 S 39.4   31.6   3322
I't.erets OLT (10 ISlS an56) *   .....            133    532  3.609              07    216  1,063  3,0100   4,616   6.169  6.594  7.380   7.516  6.176   6.392  6.604
Inetr..6 LT/Eb*ort. OS M(1)               . .    55!   10 2    19 5       .    4 4     790   156      1 69    16 6    29 6    24.3   24 5   27.2   201.2  12 .0   2295
Inernal. 9LT/c.,-,.t (P (S)i ./...               05S    0.0    2 4              0 4     0 6      .1    2 0     1 9      3 6    4 4     4.2    4.1    4 7      4 4     S36
plomoreft4". It..
VWi(** SofW) ........   ... -0. 7    -5 0    -6 9   -to00    -2 7    .090   -3                 -9.2   .10   -13 7    -1590   -6.2   -6.5   -9.6   -16.0  -16 1   -12 3                    U
o1.in11 Osotot,. (o. 6 of CDP)                                                  00    1 4    -4 6    -25    .7 6       .6 4    460    56    4 4       2.1    50    S64                   ~[
IefS.tia. Adv.t.dbl6"e,c.(aw 6ofSIW)                                           .1 1    -3 6    .6 5    .1.0  -11.2   .10 9    S I   -06    -4 5    -61I    0 4    -4.2                  50
"il/oo  (so S of  P) ..1........          50    2297   29 1    27 9    3660   2130   30 7    265S   213    276     26.7   27 0    27 0    27 0    29 4    270    27.0                    6
Plottotelp o"(grorl pass) ........10 7    14 6    S19   ISSI            1.0   12 2    to07    29 6    412    41.1    go04    be61    561    175S   47 ?    70 3    42 5 
e.It rost10 to 196*70.                                                                                                                                     4--9
5/As motseerod by 10105... who$&o*$* or;s edo.8..
C/ An ;netasss, la theg ;mds, am060*0rea door64eit.oft
4/ pfe.. to lbe-Go.,*aeetod



- 55 -
ANNEX V
Pa    of 2
MEXICO
ROAD TRANSPORT AND TELECONNUNICATIONS SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
... .. . ... t..............   .................................................
Acual                        ProjOted
.................           .........................................................
1SIIS  1951 7 1go Wp/19U  ./  1990  1991  1952  1995  1994  195   1996  199   1998
.................................................................................................................................
GOP                               2.7  -4.0   1.4   1.1    2.9    3.0   3.7   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0
00P/Cpite Grwth Re"              -0.1  -1.4   0.4  -0.9    0.9    1.0   1.7   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9
crwpiVts Graith Rate             -0.8  *7.7  -0.9   2.2    2.3    0.7  -0.9   1.9   2.8   2.6   2.7   3.1   3.1   3.1
Total OM (USS, Mill)            905 100876 1029210         96069  9124S 9099         97174 9M5 9O  956 105M1210095
DODJxGNFS                       350.9 461.1 395.8 345.0  290.5   188  232.S  215.  19.3 18.0 16.8  151.6 138.4 126.0
DOD/GDP                          53.1  77.6  77.4  56.8   49.0   43.0  43.0  40.2  3.3  343  31.8  293  2V.1  Z5.0
Ddet Service (USS, 14i11)        15292 12956 12182 15s6f  U711  1V  11713 113   11136 17O0 1137S 1527 1160  11
Debt ServicFGFS                  55.4  59.2  44.1  53.5    44.5    5.0  2L9  25.4  3.7  20.0  19.1  17.   16.0  14.6
Oebt Service/WP                   8.4  10.0   8.5   8.8    7.s    6.1   5.4   4.7   43   3.8   3.7   3.4   3.1   2.9
InteresUt/XE2FS                  36.8  38.1  29.3  30.6   29.3   21.S  18.9  17.7  16.3  15.0  14.0  12.8  11.6  10.4
Interest/DP                       6.1   6.4   5.7   5.0    4.9    3.7   3.5   3.3   3.1   2.8   2.7  2LS   2.3   2.1
Gross Uwestmant/0aP              21.9  18.5  18.6  20.3   19.3   20.6  22.9  23.8  23.8  23.9  23.9  23.9  24.0  24.0
chve of Stocks                    2.7   0.9   0.2   1.8    1.5    1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2
Private                         1.7   0.8  *0.2   1.3    0.8    0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6
PbLic                           1.0   0.1  -0.2   0.5    0.8    0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6
Fixed Capitat Fon~tion           19.2  17.6  18.9  18.5   17.7   19.4  21.7  22.6  Z.6  22.7  22.7  22.7  22.8  2.8
Privat*/WP                     13.2  11.6  13.4  14.1   13.7   14.3  15.7  16.6  16.6  16.7  16.7  16.7  16.8  16.8
Pubtic/GDP                      6.0   6.0   S.5   4.4    4.0    5.1   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0
Natiorel SWirGs/DP                22.6  17.2  21A   18.7   16.5   19.5  21.4  22.2  22.5  22.7  22.9  23.0  23.0  23.0
GroBs Private Swvirgs          19.s  16.0  13.6  182   14.3   14.2  12.7  13.4  13.5  13.6  13.7  13.5  13.4  13.3
Gro  Pfthic savirg              3.1   1.2   7.9   0.5    2.1    5.3    .7   a8    9.0   9.1   9.3   9.4   9.6   9.8
Gros Oatsic SwirgB                26.8  23.3  26.0  22.6   20.4   21.9  24.0  24.8  24.9  24.9  25.1  24.9  24.8  24.7
Exports of CUfS Rel  rowth Rates  -4.1   3.2   9.8   2.0    3.3    5.7   5.7   5.8   5.9   6.0   6.1   6.2   6.2   6.3
NoerOil Export of GulFS Groth Rate -2.2   1.0  12.5   8.8    6.1    7.4   7.3   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4
E*xrts/&WP                        15.4  17.3  19.6  16.5   16.9   17.3  18.S  18.6  18.8  19.0  19.1  19.4  19.   19.8
Iports of UnF Reel Growth Rots  11.0 -12.4   4.5  31.8   1T.5    4.3   7.7   6.    5.6   5.7   5.5   7.1   7.2   7.1
luports/WP                       10.5  12.S  12.2  14.2   15.8   16.0  17.4  17.7  17.8  17.9  18.0  18.4  18.7  19.1
Currant Accoant (U#, KilL)        1237 -1673  3N6  -2901  *5533  -275 -33S9  *3714 -3554 -m2  -3035 -3319 -3629 -3569
Current Accmt/WP                  0.7  -1.3   2.8  -1.6   -2.8   -1.1  -1.   -1.6  .1.4  -1.2  -1.0  -1.0  -1.0  -1.0
Resource 8aluCtDP                 4.9   4.8   7.4   2.3    1.1    1.3   1.1   1.0   1.0   1.1   1.2   1.0   0.8   0.7
Tens of Trad (195100)            .1.2  .30.9  14.1  .10.5    4.9   -0.1  *0.1  -0.1  -0.1  -0.1  -0.1  -0.1  -0.1  -0.1
Primry Want'WP I/                 5.0   3.4   4.9   S.8    7.1    7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0
Operatiaul laoGewP 1/             .3.9  -4.9   2.5  -4.4   -2.7   -0.4   2.1   2.2   2.4   2.5   2.7   2.8   3.0   3.2
MsrunrM Itema
.. . ... ....
Oil price (USS per WMrel)         25.4  11.9  16.2  12.2   15.6   16.4  17.1  17.8  18.5  19.3  24.1  20.9  21.7  22.6
. ..... ....          ...... ...... .......... ........... .................... .......... .................... ... .... .. .......... ........... .............................. ................
Sace: Neicee Au      tlea   su* staff etlete
p/ pretiafiuy
*/ estite
4/18/9



IBMD 2225
,,,, >               :                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M  E X I C O
ROAD TRANSPORT AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
\t }  <  *>c,         r--SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
"JA ISI                                  1     Jt'&
CA>\   e  e    Hf            _ v t6    VSO A tl U I~~~ I A t\ ic:_tbimldeti hI-,
w                                                                                                 w1
CAi I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
nism~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rxacipozvxw*l fciis _ , 5 
SU^d_ Ror F- S.Ided -ig ..
fter  olfre  9dt
cot  f  C, C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rc.
n*cpo~~~p.o.~~oy me ees.t~~~aac ~~ IC ticco~~~.eso.. ci ~~GUATEMALA                                                   -
5585*Ole*COIStV lecco~~~~eC5*58.clOl* cco.*a. ctOlcit85fldS.es  ~~~~~2ONDURAS
MARCHl 19A0



