Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report Nvo. P-5225-CA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OP THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 14.5 MILLION
TO THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
APRIL 11, 1990
TUs document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY E&UIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =    CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$ 1          -    CFAF 300 (as of Oct.-Dec. 1990) a/
WEIGHTS AND MESURES
Metric system
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAADE     Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement des Dettes de l'Etat
CNP       Centre National Piscicole
CNPAF     Centre National pour la Protection et l'Am4nagement de la
Faune
EDF       European Development Fund
EEC       European Economic Community
ESDP      Economic and Social Development Plan
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
FAO       Food and Agricultural Organization (United Nations Agency)
MDR       Ministere du Developpement Rural
MEFCPT    Ministtre des Eaux, ForOts, Chasses, Paches et du Tourisme
MEFPCI    Ministere de l'Economie, des Finances, du Plan et de la
Cooperation Internationale
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
OCATOUR   Office Centrafricain du Tourisme
ONF       Office National des Fordts
SAL       Structural Adjustment Lending
SPA       Special Program for Africa
TFAP      Tropical Forestry Action Plan
WWF       World Wildlife Fund
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
a/   The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of
FF 1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATURAL RESOURCE MWNAGEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....................................    i
PART I. THE ECONOMY.                                                             1
General Economic and Agricultural Sector Context.                             1
The Structural Adjustment Program.                                            1
PART II. THE FORESTRY AND WILDLIFE SECTOR.                                       3
Existing Resources ..............................................   3
Present Use of Forest Resources .           ................................   4
Wildlife and Game Exploitation.                                               5
Forest and Wildlife Legislation and Fiscal System.                            6
Sector Institutions.                                                          7
Government's Sector Strategy and Policy.                                      8
Bank and Other Aid Agencies Involvement in the Forestry and
Wildlife Sector .9
Rationale for IDA Involvement .10
PART III. THE PROJECT .11
A. Project Objectives .11
B. Project Description .11
1. Sector Adjustment Program               . . .12
(a)  Forestry Code, Taxes and Incentives .12
(b) Institutional Restructuring .14
(c)  Financing of MEFCPT's Operations .15
2. The Investment Project                . . .16
(a) Strengthening of MEFCPT .16
(b) Forest Inventory .19
(c) Pilot Agro-Forestry and Land Management
Component ......        .................... ...............   20
(d) Support to the Protection and Management
of Wildlife in a Dense Forest Reserve .21
(e) Administration Unit .22
C. Project Organization                  . . .22
F.   Project Costs, Financing, Procurement, Disbursements
and Accounts   ..23
1. Project Costs .23
2. Project Financing .24
3. Procurement .25
4.  Disbursements ..............       .    ......................  26
5. Accounts, Audits and Reporting .                                 28
6.  Tranche Release ............................  28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)                               Page No
E.  Benefits and Risks ................................    29
1.  Project Benefits ............................    29
2. Social Dimensions of Adjustment ..............    31
3.    Project  Risks  ...............................  31
PART IV.  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY IN CAR ......    32
PART V.  RECOMMENDATION ..................................    33
ANNEXES
1. Economic Indicator Data Sheet
2.  Performance Under the Second Structural Adjustment Program
3.  Balance of Payment and External Financing Gap Tables
4. Statement of Sector Policy Statemeto.
5. Matrix of Policy Measures
6. Organization Chart of MEFCPT and Staffing Plan
7.  Forestry Fund: Forecast of Tax Receipts.
8.  Implementation Schedule
9. Total Project Costs
10. Supplemental Data Sheet
11. Status of Bank Group Operations in CAR
Mlap : IBRD No. 18099R



i
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUPLIC
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower            :      The Government of the Central African Repub!.ic
Beneficiary         :      Ministry of Waters, Forests, Wildlife, Fisheries
and Tourism (MEFCPT)
Credit Amount              SDR 14.5 million (US$19 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.
Cofinanciers        :      WWF/USAID (US$400,000 equivalent). In addition,
this hybrid operation is a candidate for SPA
cofinancing   (Special   Program   for   Africa
cofinancing arrangements for adjustment).
Project Description :      The  credit will  support a hybrid operation,
consisting in a quick disbursing sector ad' stment
program based on policy and institutional reforms,
and  an  investment  project  in  support  of
institution building and pre-investment and
development  actions.    The  sector  adjustment
program, to be disbursed in two equal tranches
about 18 months apart, will consist mainly in:
(a) the consolidation and completion of ongoing
reforms to improve the regulations governing the
use of forest and wildlife resources by industry
and local populations, which include most
importantly revision of the Forestry Code and
improvements to timber and hunting taxes; (b) the
restructuring of the Forest and Wildlife Ministry
and its affiliated a-ncies, together with the
adoption of a staffing plan; and (c) the
establishment of a funding mechanism to ensure
that the recurrent costs of forest and wildlife
protection are adequately met during and after IDA
financirng.
The investment project to be implemented over a
four-year period will include: (a) the overall
strengthening of the capacity of MEFCPT's
reorganized central services and field units
throughout the country, and provision of better
facilities and equipment, staff training, and
support to MEFCPT's extension activities to
promote environmental protection; (b) an inventory
of the remaining dense forest resources in the
south-western part of the country; (c) the



ii
execution   of   a   pilot   agro-forestry   and
landmanagement program in the forest zone around
Bangui,   in   collaboration  with   the   rural
population; and (d) support to an ongoing project
for the protection and management of a dense
forest reserve, with an emphasis on wildlife
conservation.
Benefits and Risks:                            In  the  short-term,  the  project  will  reduce
poaching and improve forest management, as well
as increase tax collection rates on wildlife and
forest exploitation activities.  In the medium-
term the project will enhance knowledge of the
natural and human environment of CAR's dense
tropical forest, which is a prerequisite to its
rational   use.                   The  main   risk   is   slow
implementation due to the major institutional
restructuring and strengthening to be carried out.
Estimated Pro;-ct Coate:
S Total
I Foreign     Baa.
Locl    Foeritn       Total      Local    For in    Total    Exchange        ts
--- FCFA sillion -               ----Us1il ion-----    --…-                -
Institution StrengUtening       2,149.11   1,431.47   8,560.56      7.16       4.77    11.94      39.98       58.97
Forest Inventory                  398.09     829.31   1,227.40      1.33       2.78     4.09       67.57      19 53
Agro-Forestry Pilot               126.10     290.03      416.14     0.42       0.97     1.39       69.70       6 62
Forest Reserve Protection         201.69     278.09      476.78     0.67       0.92     1.59       57.70       7.59
Prolect AdaTnistration             76.59     297.47      374.06     0.26       0.99     1.25       79.52       5.95
P ajct Prepar. Facility             0.00     210.00      210.00     0.00       0.70     0.70      100.00       3.34
Total ASEDIE COSTS              2,951.59   3,838.S7   6,2U4.96      9.84      11.11    20.95       53.04     100.00
Phftical Contingencies         29.68      45.36       75.04     0.10       0.15     0.25      60.45        1.19
Pr,ce Contingencies           376.11     639.86      915.97     1.25       1.80     3.05      58.94       14.57
DIVESTMT PROJET COSTS           3,357.88   3.918.58   7,275.96    11.19       13.06    24 25      5S.86      115.77
SECOR ADJUSThSE                     0.00      600.00     600.00     0.00       2.00     2.00      100.00       n.a.
TOTAL COST                3,357.38   4,518.58   7,875.96    11.19       15.06    26.25      57.00        n.a.
Financing Plan:
IA   WF/IAD    Oovt.    Total 
---          iI ion-----------
Investment Project            17.0        0.4        6.65    24.25
Adjustment Program             2.0         -           -      2.00
Total                   19.0        0.4        6.65    26.25
Eatitttttg    Ditg butnte
91         92         93        94        95        9S         97      Total
--------…-------    ----- - US$ *illion ----___________________
Annual
Investsent Project           1.2        3.2        8.9       4.2       2.6       1.4        0.5       17.0
Adjustsmnt Coneonent         1.0         -          1.0       -          -        -          -         2.0
Total                  2.2        3.2        4.9       4.2       2.6       1.4        0.5       19.0
trutuativo                      2.2        5.4        10.3     14.S       17.1     18.S        19.0        -



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLI.
FOR A NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.1         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 14.5 million (US$19 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms with 40 years maturity to the Central African Republic (CAR) to help
finance a Natural Resource Management Project. The World Wildlife Fund (WWF)
with USAID financial assistance will provide financing of US$400,000 equivalent
in support of one component of the project.  In addition this operation is a
candidate for the Special Program for Africa (SPA) cofinancing arrangements for
adjustment.
PART I. THE ECONOMY
General Economic and Agricultural Sector Context
1.2         The CAR, a landlocked country of f23,000 km2 in the heart of Africa,
has an estimated population of 3 million, growing at an annual rate of 2.4Z,
with a low population density of 4.2 inhabitants per square kilometer.   Per
capita GNP was estimated at US$390 in 1988. Agriculture, including livestock
and forestry, is the mainst   of the economy, accounting for about 42Z of GDP
and occupying abound 80Z of   a pcpulation. Mining, manufacturing and utilities
(15), construction (32),       services (402) account for the balance of GDP.
Economic Indicators for CAR are given in Annex 1.
1.3         The natural c,.4itions of CAR are favorable to agriculture and animal
husbandry and, given the low population density, extensive tracks of land are
still available for these purposes.   As a result, CAR is basically self-
sufficient in major foodcrops, which represent about one third of agriculture
value added; livestock accounts for another third and the balance consists in
cash crops (about 52) and traditional activities such as food gathering and
hunting. CAR's cash crop agriculture includes import substitution crops (oil
palm and sugar cane) and export crops (coffee, cotton and tobacco), and is
relatively well diversified. CAR's export and timber account for about half of
total official exports.
1.4         C-.k,ared to its production potential,  CAR's performance in the
agricultura.: sector has been disappointing. Over the last few decades, growth
of agricultural production has just kept pace with the increase in population;
average yields per unit area remain low in comparison with neighboring countries,
and no significant improvement has been achieved in the productivity of
agricultural labor.
The Structural Adiustment Program
1.5         In an attempt to reverse the deteriorating trends in the CAR economy
which was precipitated by the drop in its major commodity prices in 1985, the
Government launched the first phase of its structural adjustment program in the
second half of 1986 and followed up with the second phase in June 1988, supported



2
by SAL I and SAL II, respectively. The broad objective of the program was to
set the basis for achieving positive per capita economic growth while containing
the current account deficit within a sustainable limit. The basic elements of
the Government's strategy concerned an agricultural-led growth based on
comparative advantage; the creation of a favorable environment for the private
sector through the liberalization of price and trade regimes, the retrenchment
of the public sector and public investments in support of productive activities;
and the strengthening of public sector resource management.
1.6         The major achievements of SAL I cover five areas:   tirst, the
progressive liberalization of prices and trade has taken place on schedule;
second, current expenditure growth was curtailed in agreement with IMF targets
mainly by tight control of the wage bill and non-concessional debt; third, while
hampered by a limited data base and weak administrative capacity, progress was
made toward rationalization of the parapublic sector; fourth, in agriculture,
incentives were increased in the coffee sector through higher producer prices,
the production of food crops benefited from the liberalization of the marketing
of local produce, and the financial performance of the cotton sector improved;
and fifth, policies to revitalize the for,.try sector were put into place.
1.7         Under SAL II, the Government continued to pursue a coherent set of
policies for macroeconomic management, agriculture, mining, the civil service
and public administration, parapublic enterprise reform, and the promotion of
the private sector small and medium enterprises (SMEs) promotion. These policies
aimed to strengthen the measures taken during SAL I, correc^t slippages, and
introduce reforms in a number of new areas to deepen the adjustment program.
The main elements of SAL II related to:   (a) reinforcing public investment
programming, especially consolidating the three-year rolling public investment
programming system and strengthening project selection procedures; (b) continuing
the review of the pricing and trade regimes to better allocate domestic
resources, as well as reforming and strengthening institutions promoting private
sector activities; (c) increasing domestic resource mobilization and containing
current expenditures with a major effort at reducing the civil service; and (d)
formulating a new rural development strategy aimed at improving the delivery of
technical support services to farmers and a forestry and wildlife strategy to
improve control over the exploitation of the country's natural resources to
improve their conservation.   A matrix summarizing government performance in
implementing SAL II is in Annex 2. The second tranche of SAL II was released
in January 1990. A SAL III appraisal mission visited the CAR in April 1990.
1.8         Provided that government efforts for structural adjustment are
sustained, CAR's balance of payments should show improvement over the medium-
term:   the current account deficit as a percentage of GDP (net of public
transfers) is expected to fall from 16.5 in 1989 and 15.8Z in 1990 to 14.2Z and
12.5Z in 1992 and 1995 respectively. However, external financing requirements
over the period 1990-93 will remain heavy; exports will recover only gradually
from their present depressed levels and there will be a critical debt service
hump in 1990 and 1991. CAR's overall financing requirements over the period
1990-93 are estimated to be US$990 million, cr US$245 million per annum.
1.9         These financing requirements will be filled by (a) grants of US$570
million over the period for budgetary support, and bilateral development
projects; and (b) loans, of which IDA SAL III and other planned quick disbursing



3
operations, including the IDA-financed proposed credit (for a total of about
US$390 million over the period). There will nevertheless remain an external
financing gap of US$30 million. To fill this gap, fresh money will need to be
attracted, through the medium of cofinancing of IDA's fast disbursing operations
mainly from SPA sources. A balance of payments table and an external financing
requirements table are included in Annex 3.
PART II. THE FORESTRY AND WILDLIFE SECTOR
Existing Resources
2.1         The forest and woodland resources of CAR belong to two main types
of vegetation (see map 18099R):
(a)   the dense tropical forest located in the Southwest and North
of Bangassou, together with the gallery forests along the main
rivers and in bottomlands; and
(b)   woodlands and disseminated trees in the savanna zone, ranging
from wooded savanna over most of the country to shrub and bush
savanna in the northerDmost region.
The knowledge of forest resources in CAR is rather poor since no comprehensive
national forest inventory has ever been undertaken, and the partial surveys done
in the past in the dense forest area have not been updated. The area under dense
tropical forest is estimated to be 3.5 million ha, or 5.5Z of the total area of
the country. The forest of southwestern CAR is a dense, humid, semi-deciduous
forest which is currently considered as one of the richer in Africa, with a high
density of commercially valuable redwoods such as Sapelli and Sipo, as well as
a high number of white woods including Ayous and Limba.
2.2         In the past, the dense forest of CAR extended well beyond its present
boundaries. While climatic variations may erplain in part the recession of the
forest, the action of man is unaoubtedly also an important factor, in particular
the practice of agriculture and animal husbandry, associated bush and forest
fires, and gathering of firewood for a rapidly growirg urban population. The
remaining dense tropical forest in the southernmost part of the country will
become endangered in the medium-term unless adequate measures are taken to slow
down its destruction.
2.3         The CAR's important wildlife resources are in many respects unique
in Africa, as a result of its location in the transition zone between West and
East Africa, and between the dense evergreen forest and the Sudano-Sahelian
ecosystems. The native fauna is particularly rich in the northern and eastern
savannas where wide open spaces are available and the density of human population
is very low. However, abusive hunting has been particularly severe in these
areas in recent years.   The deuse tropical forest zone also constitutes an
important wildlife resource, which is characterized by the great diversity of
species of its flora and fauna.  Animal resources include numerous lowland
gorillas and forest elephants, as well as other species such as bongos, forest
buffaloes and chimpanzees in the Dzanga-Sangha area at the southernmost tip of
CAR's dense forest near the Cameroonian and Congolese borders.



4
Present Use of rorest Resources
1. Uses by the Forest Industry
2.4         In the early 1980s, the forest industry of CAR accounted on average
for about 3Z of GDP and 20t of officially recorded exports, ranking third after
diamonds and coffee as a main source of foreign exchange. The forestry sector
has also contributed significantly to government revenues in the form of fees
and taxes (CFAF 1.2 billion in 1985, or 3? of government receipts), and has
provided in recent years direct employment to 2,500-4,000 people, or about 12Z
of total formal employment in the 'modern' sector of the economy (excluding civil
service). As a result of a forest legislation requiring the local transformation
of a given percentage of logs extracted from the forest by the industry, the
degree of local processing of forest products by the CAR industry is very high
compared with other African countries, and often exceeds 701.
2.5         Gross production of logs by the forest industry reached a maximum
of around 400,000 m3 in the early 1970s, which is well below the sustainable
yield, roughly estimated at about 1 million m3 per year. The CAR forestry sector
has undergone a severe crisis in recent years. The industrial production of logs
and wood products has been steadily declining since the early 1980s, with a gross
log production that totalled only 152,200 m3 in 1988 compared with 340,800 m3
in 1981. This situation is the result of a combination of factors, among which
a reduced demand for tropical African woods oni the world market; an increase in
production costs, particularly transport costs; and, as a consequence, a low
level of investment and maintenance of equipment by forest companies. Only five
forest companies (all of them private and mostly foreign-owned) were in operation
in late 1988 compared w:th nine in 1984. The operations of two other companies
are, however, expected to resume in 1989 under new ownerships.
2.6         Forest exploitation by the industry is quite selective, since only
a small fraction of the available stumpage volume is extracted (about 15-30 mS
out of a total of about 300-320 m3 per ha). This low extraction rate, together
with the high natural regenerative capacity of the tropical forest, considerably
limits the environmental damage that is caused to the forest as a direct result
of industrial exploitation. It is estimated that about 10-15? of the existing
dense forest resources of CAR has been so far subject to logging, thus leaving
most of the area untouched by the industry.  Because selective logging might
nonetheless lead to changes in the composition of the forest, improper felling
and/or excessive damages to surrounding trees need to be checked and measures
taken to stop it when it occurs.
2. Uses by the Local Population
2.7         The forest and woodland resources of CAR are an important source of
livelihood for both its rural and urban population. They supply directly over
90? of the energy requirements of CAR's households and are an essential part of
the crop production system through their contribution to the maintenance and
restoration of soil fertility after cropping.   Hunting is a very important
activity as game is a major source of animal protein throughout CAR, in the
forest as well as in the savanna zone; the forest also provides many fruits and
other wild foods and medicinal plants.  Traditionally, the livelihood of the



5
pygmy population in the dense forest of CAR and neighboring countries depends
almost entirely from the hunting and gathering of such wild products.
2.8         Firewood  collection  is  currently  one  of  the main  causes  of
deforestation around urban centers.  Although rost households in rural areas
gather their own firewood on a daily basis, the marketing of firewood is becoming
increasingly important in peri-urban areas where firewood extraction and trade
remain virtually uncontrolled.
2.9         The slashing and burning of the forest to practice agriculture is,
at least as much as firewood collection, another main cause of deforestation
which has in drier areas resulted in a virtual desertification of large tracts
of land in many other African countries, particularly in West Africa.  This
phenomenon is still controllable in CAR, thanks to its rather high rainfall and
its low population density. The latter advantage is, however, mitigated by the
uneven spatial distribution of the rural population, with a concentration along
roads.
2.10        Shifting  cultivation  is  an  efficient  production  svstem where
population density is low and mobility is high. However, as the rural population
increases and becomes more and more concentrated, the system breaks down. Longer
cropping periods on the same fragile soils and shorter forest fallows cause
substantial damage to the environment and declining crop yields. The system of
laud use eventually becomes unsustainable--& situation which is becoming more
and more apparent along the main roads and near the urban centers of CAR.
2.11        In this respect, the construction of new roads penetrating deep into
the dense forest to accommodate wood industries plays a major role in forest
destruction, since they inevitably result in the settlement of new villages on
their sides, as people abandon soils depleted by cultivation. This is the main
negative impact of the expansion of wood industries on the forest because they
attract numerous workers, their families and other settlers. The project will
establish mechanisms to protect the land in and around forests from the
activities of wood industries.
Wildlife and Game Exploitation
2.12        Game products are estimated to account for about one third of total
animal protein intake in CAR. In rural areas, most people eat game meat on a
regular basis and readily admit to prefer it to cattle or "raised meat".
Consumption per capita is somewhat lower in urban areas where game meat commands
prices twice or three times higher than chicken or beef. Due to such a strong
and increasing demand. commercial hunting is expanding rapidly, with very little
effective control by the administration and an ever-increasing risk of over
exploitaticn.
2.13        Poaching has been particularly destructive in recent years in the
savanna zone of CAR. As a result of illegal and abusive hunting mainly for the
sale of horns and tusks which end up in Far-East and Middle-East countries,
rhinoceros, elephants and other valuable species may become extinct in CAR.
The most destructive form of poaching is pract'ced by armed bands coming from
the Sudan, who usually enter CAR in groups of fifty or more and are equipped with



6
modern weapons.   Poaching is also practiced on a smaller scale by Central
Africans.
2.14        In comparison with these largely uncontrolled hunting and poaching
activities, organized hunting and observation tourism are quite limited.
Official sources indicate that safari hunters kill about 1,000 animals per year
and contribute to government foreign exchange revenue through the purchase of
permits and the collection of taxes for a total amount estimated at about
US$500,000 annually.   Observation tourism remains insignificant despite the
relative abundance of wildlife which could potentially represent an important
attraction.
Forest and Wildlife Legislation and Fiscal System
1.    Forestry Legislation
2.15        The Forestry Code of 1962 has been revised to increase the power of
the forest authorities and the participation of the wood industry and other
forest users in environmental protection, and to incorporate recent revisions
in the tax regime.  Current forestry taxes include:  (a) area taxes, payable
annually on the basis of the area on which the company holds permit(s); (b)
stumpage taxes, based on the volumes produced or exported; and (c) a
reforestation tax introduced in 1979. In addition, export duties are collected
by the Customs Administration. Under SALs I and II some improvements have been
made to the forestry legislation and tax regime.  The Ministry in charge of
forestry (MEFCPT) has standardized the regulations ("cahier des charges')
governing logging companies.   The area tax rates have been increased and
streamlined, and i.centives have been built into the area tax to favor longer
cerm permits so that forest industries are more inclined to preserve forest
resources. The basis for calculating the stumpage and reforestation taxes has
also heen improved. A direct link to the real value of the timber resource has
been introduced to encourage the exploitatior of secondary species, thus
fostering a more balanced use of forest resources.
2.16        On the whole, these modifications in the three main taxes (excluding
export duties) that apply to the forest industries have resulted in an average
increase of about 352 above the previous aggregate tax levels, based on the
volumes produced and exported in 1987. This increase was however largely offset
by a substantial reduction of import duties (from 60X to 52) on spare parts and
equipment for the forestry sector, introduced under SAL I in early 1987 for a
period of five years. On the whole, taxes borne by the fo;-est industries of CAR
represent about 18Z of the sale value of timber resource (22Z prior to tax
reform).  However, the actual rate of taxation is probably lower, since the
forest authorities are ill-equipped to enforce the tax legislation.
2.   Wildlife Legislation
2.17        Despite the substantial areas designated as national parks or
reserves (about 61,100 km2 or close to 10? of the total land area of CAR),
particularly in the savanna zone, very little effective protection has been
exercised so far, mainly as a result of a lack of adequate staff and operating
resources. A large-scale project has, however, recently started in the northern
savanna zone with assistance from the European Development Fund (EDF).   A



7
Wildlife Code was issued in 1984 which, besides defining the general rules
applicable to the national parks and reserves, specifies the conditions under
which hunting is allowed. The Code is basically sound but cannot be enforced
without operating resources.
Sector Institutions
2.18        Responsibility fot ensuring the protection and management of CAR's
forest and wildlife resources rests entirely with MEFCPT and its affiliated
organizations, i.e., mainly the reforestation agency, ONF, the wildlife
protection agency, CNPAP, the tourism agency, OCATOUR, and the fisheries
development  agency,  CNP.    There  are  substantial  overlaps  between  the
responsibilities of these agencies and MEFCPT, which itself suffers from an
excessively complex organization w-th many division and section chiefs. There
are few working level staff at the central level relative to chiefs and an
insufficient number of staff in the field.
2.19        The mandate of MEFCPT is quite broad,  since it includes all
activities related to the management and protection of water, forest and wildlife
resources throughout the country. Before the recent reorganization (para 3.11)
MEFCPT was expe'ted to carry its mandate with limited staff, including 143 in
Bangui and 259 in the field for 16 forest inspections. Considering the size of
the country (623,000 km2), the density of forest and wildlife guards was very
low. Wurthermore these guards lacked the transport and operating funds necessary
to effectively carry out their duties.  As a result, the control of forest
exploitation and poaching has been ineffective and virtually no development work
has been undertaken by MEFCPT's field staff.
2.20        The budgetary situation of MEFCPT has also been unsatisfactory.  Its
operating budget was only CFAF 20 million annually, as compared with a personnel
budget of CFAF 359 million (of which CFAF 163 million for central services and
CFAF 196 million for field units). Only 24Z of this operating budget (excluding
salaries) was allocated to the field units.   No funds from the national
investment budget are currently allocated to MEFCPT.
2.21        ONF  was  initially  established  in  1969  to  carry  out  field
developmental activities on behalf of MEFCPT, including the development of forest
industries, reforestation and other forest and watershed protection and
management activities, control of bush and forest fires, and promotion of the
use of wood products on the domestic market. Since its creation, ONF benefited
f-om important tax resources, consisting of a 40Z share of the area and stumpage
taxes, together with the full amount of the reforestation tax introduced in 1979.
The 1989 audit of ONF's activities showed that these funds were mainly used to
develop and maintain a heavy head office in Bangui, with salaries often
substantially higher than those of MEFCPT, and that field activities (mainly
reforestation) were not commensurate wifh the resources made available to ONF.
Between 1970 and 1986, ONF spent about CFAF 1.4 billion from tax resources,
together with about CFAF 240 million from French bilateral aid, but reforested
only about 350 ha, which represents an investment of about CFAF 130 million.
In the last few years, following the drop in its fiscal resources due to the
decline of timber production and exports, ONF has almost stopped its field
operations and started to reduce its staff; a target was set of 54 employees to
remain on its payroll as of early 1989, compared with almost 200 in 1985.



8
2.22        Since its establishment in 1977, CNPAF's mandate overlaps with
MEFCPT's Direction of Game and Wildlife ir. that it consists mainly in promoting
the conservation and exploitation of wildlife through the formulation and
implementation  of  appropriate  regulations  and management  programs.    Its
activities are funded by a share of the various taxes collectec  rom safari
companies and other hunting activities, together with receipts frt,m the sales
of hunting and poaching seizures. CNPAF's field activities effectively started
only in 1982 and until 1985 covered rmainly anti-poaching in the northern and
eastern savannas. The 1987 audit of CNPAF underlined that financial control of
its operations was very weak; thereafter, CNPAF's activities dwindled as its tax
receipts declined following substantial destruction of CAR's wildlife and an
official prohibition of hunting endangered species such as elephants.   At
present, CNPAF is virtually inactive, with a staff of only five people at its
Bangui head office. The activities of OCATOUR have recently been suspended and
its staff has been released or reassigned to MEFCPT.
2.23        Since they are parallel entities to the Ministry with their own
sources of funding secured through the direct collection of taxes, ONF, CNPAF
and OCATOUR have benefited from a large degree of financial autonomy. This was
originally intended as a way to ensure efficiency and speediness of their
operations by avoiding the funding shortages and other administrative hassles
that constantly plague ministries and other non autonomous bodies. However, as
evidenced in the audits, the financial control of these organizations has been
extremely weak, and they have achieved very little in comparison with the funds
made available to them. In fact, they have mainly contributed to the development
of additional bureaucracies in Bangui, the duties of which are largely redundant
with those of MEFCPT and elude some of the civil service rules. To some extent,
their financial autonomy has also been relative, since the Treasury or other
official entities has at times drawn on their receipts to meet other needs.
Government's Sector Strategy and Policy
2.24        The Government's long-term objectives for the forestry sector have
been stated in the 1986-1990 Economic and Social Development Plan (ESDP), and
consist mainly in: (a) preserving the ecological balance and maintaining the
long-term productive potential of the natural forest; and (b) increasing the
contribution of the forestry sector to the national economy through a rational
exploitation and management of existing forest resources.   To achieve these
objectives, ESDP underlines the need to carry out a national forest inventory,
reinforce the capability of MEFCPT, improve the control of firewood gathering
around urban centers, and increase the awareness of rural populations on the need
to protect the environment.
2.25        Similarly, for the wildlife sector, the Plan emphasizes the need to
develop its contribution to the regional and national economy, particularly in
the savanna zone, while ensuring an adequate protection of existing resources
to  preserve  the  long-term  potential.    This  implies  in  particalar  the
strengthening and increased support to the network of forest- and game-rangers,
together with the development of infrastructure and tourist potential in CAR
national parks.



9
2.26        The Government's objectives and strategy for the forestry and
wildlife sector are basically sound. Despite the limited means made available
to MEFCPT in recent years, the mirnstry has been able to make some progress.
The collection of forest statistics has been improved under the IDA-supported
Second Technical Assistance Credit, and under the Bank-supported first and second
SALs several important policy reforms have been introduced. As mentioned above,
the regulations and taxes applicable to the forest companies have been improved
to promote a more balanced use of forest resources by the industry, while
providing for the recovery by the State of a substantial fraction of the value
of timber extracted from the forest. MEFCPT has revised the Forestry Code in
order to consolidate these changes and clarify other aspects such as the control
of firewood gatherang around urban areas, and has played a major role in the
preparation of this project.
Bank Group's and Other Aid Agencies' Involvement in the Forestry and Wildlife
Sector
2.27        Assistance to the CAR's forestry and wildlife sector is provided by
a number of donors, but usually on a small scale, with the exception of the EDF-
supported project which has recently started in the northern savanna zone.
Bank/IDA involvement in the sector has been limited to supporting policy reforms
under SAL I and SAL II, the implementation of which has been greatly facilitated
through the financing under the Second Technical Assistance Project of one
forestry advisor to MEFCPT. A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) has also been
set up to finance aerial photography in the dense forest zone and various
preparation studies.
2.28        Other ongoing donor involvement relating specifically to the forestry
and wildlife sector includes:
(a)   the financing of forest research activities by the French
Ministry of Cooperation;
(b)   technical assistance by FAO to MEFCPT's Direction of Game and
Wildlife, with two expatriates in charge of establishing a
database on wildlife exploitation (including a computerized
database for hunting permits and a census of the crocodile
population);
(c)   one large scale EEC-supported development project in the
northern savanna zone, which aims mainly at strengthening the
infrastructure and operations of three national parks and other
natural reserves in the northern region, together with the
promotion of tourism and a rural development component; and
(d)   a small WWF assisted project in the dense forest zone (Dzanga-
Sangha area), which aims at protecting and conserving the
forest ecosystem, including scientific studies on the gorilla
and measures to associate the local population in forest
conservation and tourism promotion.
2.29        Aside from these activities, several rural development projects are
under implementation: An agro-forestry and/or reforestation component as part



10
of the rural development program supported by EEC in the center-south region and
the area development project financed by FAC in the area surrounding the Ouaka
sugar factory. Provisions are also made in the IDA-supported National Livestock
Development Project (1986) for improving the management of grazing lands in the
savanna area, including the control of bush fires, through technical advice and
the granting of land user rights to organize herders associations.
Rationale for IDA's Involvement
2.30        The first and second SALs included a series of legislative measures
aimed at preventing over-exploitation of the forest for log production and
reducing  forest  encroachment  due to  shifting cultivation.    However,  the
inadequate knowledge of the forest, and MEFCPT's weak capacity to manage and
protect the resource have limited the State's ability to enforce the legislation
and to plan for the rational utilization of forest and wildlife resources. The
proposed project will deepen the measures initiated under SALs I and II, in
particular by improving the legal incentive and institutional framework for a
more environmentally sustainable use of forest resources, while providing MEFCPT
with the means and tools needed to carry out its mandate effectively.  IDA's
participation in the project is consistent with its concern for promoting sound
protection and management of renewable resources and the environment, and with
its policy of strengthening public institutions in areas that cannot be left
entirelv to the private sector, as is typically the case for environmental
protection. Through its quick disbursing component, the project fits within the
overall Bank Group lending strategy for CAR which, along with funds from other
donors, aims at filling the external financing gap of the country through sector
and SAL operations, in order to smooth out quick disbursing flows while deepening
reforms in an important subsector.
2.31        Finally, this operation constitutes the first step in the development
of a more comprehensive Tropical Forestry Action Plan.   Such a plan will
essentially identify further projects in the forestry subsector. Resource data
and information systems developed under the present operation are a prerequisite
to the formulation of a comprehensive Tropical Forestry Action Plan. Two pilot
components of the proposed operation, including the forest reserve and the agro-
forestry components, will contribute to a better understanding of the dynawic
bio-physical and socio-economic rtlationships, both in traditional forest areas
and under impact of development activities. This better understanding will be
of great value in futur project identification and preparation.   And, by
strengthening the capacity of the MEFCPT at all levels, particularly in policy
formu.lation, planning and coordination of field activities, this operation will
enhance the participation of nationals in future planning.



11
PART III. THE PROJECT
A. Project ObJectives
3.1         The process of deforestation and wildlife degradation is still
controllable in CAR. However, it has accelerated over the last decades, and
experience in other countries shows that once deforestation reaches a certain
stage it is very difficult to stop. The CAR Government must therefore start to
plan now, while there is still time, for the conservation and long-term sustained
use of its forest and wildlife resources. At the same time, planning should take
into account the substantial potential for itcreasing the contribution of these
resources to the national economy.
3.2         Accordingly, the main objective of the project, which will constitute
the first phase of a longer term program, is to reinforce CAR's capabilities to
protect and manage its forest and wildlife resources on a sustainable basis,
mainly throught
(a)   support to further improvements in the legislative framework
and fiscal/incentive system for the forestry and wildlife
sector;
(b)   restructuring of the sector's institutions and strengthening
of their capacity to effectively implement field controls and
promote environmental protection;
(c)   development of an improved knowledge of existing forest
resources, as a basis for sound planning; and
(d)   development of improved agro-forestry systems in the forest
zone, and support to the protection and management of a dense
forest reserve.
B. Project Description
3.3         The credit will support a hybrid operation consisting in a quick
disbursing sector adjustment program based on policy and institutional reforms
and an investment project in support of institution building and pre-investment
and development actions. Both parts comply with the Statement of Sector Policy
presented in Annex 4.  Disbursements of the quick disbursing funds will be
conditional upon satisfactory progress with the Government's macro-economic
adjustment program, in addition to progress with the sector adjustment program.
Disbursements of the investment project funds will be conditional upon
satisfactory progress with the sector adjustment program alone.  The sector
adjustment program, to be disbursed in two equal tranches about 18 months apart,
consist mainly in:
(a)   consolidation and completion of ongoing reforms to improve the
regulations governing the use of forest and wildlife resources
by the industry and local populations;
(b)   restructuring of MEFCPT and its affiliated agencies, together
with adoption of a staffing plan; and



12
(c)   establishment of a funding mechanism to ensure that the
recurrent costs of MEFCPT's operations are adequately met
during and after IDA financing.
The linkage of some of the quick disbursing funds to sectoral adjustment will
lead to broader and deeper reforms than could be achieved through an investment
operation. Key legislative and fiscal reforms and the dissolution of wasteful
yet powerful agencies are critical to strengthening the overall adjustment effort
and preserving the country's long term economic prospects. The matrix of policy
and institutional measures supported by the quick disbursing component is
presented in Annex 5.
3.4         The investment project, to be implemented over a four-year period,
will give MEFCPT the means and tools necessary to fulfill its duties and to
initiate in the field a number of priority development programs susceptible to
be extended later on a larger scale.  It includes:
(a)   overall strengthening of the capacity of central services and
field units of the reorganized MEFCPT throughout the country,
including better facilities and equipment, staff training, and
support  to  MEFCPT's  extension  activities  to  promote
environmental protection;
(b)   an inventory of the remaining dense forest resources;
(c)   execution of pilot agro-forestry and land management activities
in the forest zone around Bangui, in collaboration with the
rural population;
(d)   support to the ongoing WWF-assisted project (para 2.28) for
the protection and management of a dense forest reserve, with
emphasis on wildlife conservation; and
(e)   creation of a small project administrative unit to handle
procurement and disbursements for all components.
1. Sector Adjustment Program
(a) Forestry Code, Taxes and Incentives
3.5         Forest Protection and Management.  A revised Forestry Code has been
drawn up by MEFCPT to consolidate the various policy changes introduced in recent
years and to clarify additional aspects related to forest management and
protection. The new Forestry Code will place increased emphasis on the need to
ensure the adequate protection of all forest and plant resources, and will cover
several new aspects, including increased incentives for users (local populations
and/or industries) to actively participate in the protection of forest resources.
The Code includes:
(i)   an improved definition (protection perimeters, natural
reserves, production forests, etc.) of the various types



13
of forests included in the public domain and of the
general rules applicable to each of them;
(ii) a clearer definition of the customary rights held by
rural  populations  on  forest  resources  and  the
introduction of artisanal permits for the commercial
exploitation of firewood from the natural forest;
(iii) the recognition of the rights over corresponding forest
resources of individuals and/or collectivities carrying
out afforestation;
(iv) a requirement that forest companies prepare a management
plan for the concession for which they seek a permit,
including an assessment of the environmental impact of
future logging activities;
(v)   a provision  for extending  the  term  of  industrial
exploitation permits over areas large enough. to allow
adequate regeneration of the forest in commercial
species; and
(vi) a requirement that forest companies draw up annual work
programs, and an incentive for companies to participate
in   reforestation  programs,   should   the  natural
regeneration be inadequate.
3.6         The new Forestry Code has been approved by the Council of Ministers
and submitted to the National Assembly for approval. At negotiations it was
agreed that its enactment will constitute a condition of effectiveness.
Satisfactory progress in implementing the regulations of the new Forestry Code
constitutes a condition of second tranche release.
3.7         Taxes and Incentives in the Forestry Sector. Improvements in forest
taxes supported under SALs I and II have resulted in a system that is globally
sound. More recently, Government introduced further changes. In particular the
basis for setting export duties on logs was shifted from volume only to volume
and value so as to increase revenue from taxes and reduce tax discrimination in
favor of felling valuable species only.  The new tax regime also takes into
account the need to encourage the local processing of higher value added
products.
3.8         Under the project, a change will be introduced in the obligations
of forest industries. At present, when signing up or renewing a permit, forest
companies are asked to purchase transport facilities and/or build offices or
housing for MEFCPT staff. These contributions are negotiated on a case by case
basis and have amounted to the equivalent of about CFAF 5 million for each of
the most recently issued permits. This represents an additional financial burden
for the companies, and constitutes an inefficient way of taxing companies.
Furthermore, this practice undermines the independence of MEFCPT's staff vis-a-
vis the industries they control. It will therefore be discontinued under the
project, while adequate measures will be taken to ensure that MEFCPT will
effectively receive funds needed to carry out its own operations.



14
3.9         Domestic Market for Timber Products. Under SAL I price controls for
sawmill products sold on the local market were abolished in an attempt to
increase the profitability of such sales by forest industries.  However, the
viability of CAR's timber processing industry remains constrained by the low
development of the domestic market.   Industrial timber is not much used in
housing construction despite its relative abundance; aside from low cost housing
made with wood poles collected from the forest, most construction is made with
imported materials. Similarly, imported furniture competes with local products.
Under the project, a program of measures for developing the domestic market for
wood products will be formulated.
3.10        Wildlife Sector.  No change in the existing rules and regulations
for wildlife protection provided for in the currently prevailing Wildlife Code
is envisaged at this stage. However, to reaffirm the Government's commitment
to control poaching and to improve the involvement of local authorities in such
activities, a policy directive from the President has been issued to all prefects
and other local authorities in the varioas provinces, instructing them to
implement strict measures against illegal hunting and poaching.  Considering
the multiplicity of taxes that currently apply to hunting activities (reportedly
about 15 or 20 different taxes), Government is carrying out an assessment of the
scope for simplifying the current tax system in the wildlife sector.
(b) Institutional Restructuring
3.11        The duties and organization of MEFCPT and affiliated agencies have
been redefined and streamlined, so as to eliminate duplicat'ons and foster
increased efficiency particularly at the field level, while reducing costs to
a minimum. A new organization chart and staffing plan (Annex 6) for MEFCPT have
been adopted. Under the new organization, substantially more weight is given
to the field units which will receive more staff and a greater share of the
Ministry's increased budget. Responsibility for decision-making within an agreed
work program and budget is being decentralized to field divisions, headquarters
being in a support position.   Consistent with the greater autonomy of regional
services vis-&-vis the central Ministry, the General Director of Field Services
is now directly answerable to the Minister.   At the central level, the total
number of MEFCPT staff has been reduced and the remainder reorganized into a
smaller number of units, thus increasing the number of working level staff
relative to chiefs and improving coordination and effectiveness.
3.12        Over the project period, with external technical assistance support
and based on the knowledge gained through the pilot agro-forestry and forest
reserve sub-project, the duties and responsibilities of MEFCPT field staff will
be progressively redefined from their essentially control function at present
to an extension role.   The mandate and actions of forest and game rangers
currently emphasize enforcement of existing rules and regulations rather than
promotion of environmental protection and reforestation. Greater cooperation
between MEFCPT staff and local people through extension work is needed to
increase the effectiveness of control operations by ministerial staff and at
the same time promote development actions.   Cooperation is expected to be
forthcoming once MEFCPT staff is perceived to be protecting the rights of forest
dwellers against outsiders (timber companies and bushmeat traders) and to be
providing local people with the support (extension messages and inputs) they need



15
to initiate developmental actions to increase the benefits drawn from their
forests. In return, it is expected that forest dwellers will cooperate with
government staff to keep illegal outsiders out of the forest and contribute to
its protection. To achieve this goal, during the four-year project, field staff
mandates will be redefined, staff will be retrained and technical assistance
support will be provided. Even with the priority attached to this goal, it will
be reached only progressively although it will begin rapidly in the agro-forestry
and forest reserve areas in which valuable experience will be gained in working
with the local populations.
3.13        Since ONF and CNPAF have overlapping responsibilities with MEFCPT
itself,  they will  be  abolished.    ONF'8 responsibility  for  implementing
reforestation and wood plantations programs in the field will be transferred to
various ongoing or future agricultural/rural development projects, and/or in the
longer run to the field units (forest inspections) of MEFCPT. Similarly CNPAF
responsibilities for wildlife protection will be decentralized to MEFCPT field
units. The reassignment of OCATOUR staff to MEFCPT has been made official with
the creation of a Direction of Tourism within MEFCPT which is to take over
OCATOUR's former responsibility for promoting the development of tourism in
collaboration with the private sector. )CATOUR will thus also be abolished.
3.14        As shown in the staffing plan presented in Annex 6, the total number
of staff in MEFCPT field units, including forest guards, game rangers,
supervisors, and support staff has been brought up to 504, as compared with about
235 at present. The central staff of MEFCPT and its affiliated agencies have
decreased from about 251 to 142. On the whole, the total number of staff will
thus increase from 486 to 646, while the share of field staff will go up from
48? of the total to 78Z. However, it is expected that full staffing of MEFCPT
field units and reorganized central services will be achieved only after a period
of about two years, given current staff availability and the need to recruit
and train new staff. Some of the new forest guards and game rangers could come
from the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) which is releasing personnel.
3.15        MEFCPT new organization chart and staffing plan have been adopted.
The  abolition of ONF,  CNPAF  and OCATOUR as well  as  completion  of the
reorganization of MEFCPT  in accordance with the staffing plan,  including
implementation of suitable training programs, constitute a condition of second
tranche release.
(c) Financing of MEFCPT Operations
3.16        Along with the abolition of MEFCPT's affiliated agencies (i.e., ONF,
CNPAP, OCATOUR) that currently have their own tax receipts, the collection of
existing taxes on forest and wildlife resources and tourism will be simplified,
with a single payment order issued for each tax; this will substantially reduce
the overall administrative burden for tax collection.  It will be important,
however, to retain this source of funds for operations in the forestry and
wildlife sector, since adequate funds for this purpose cannot be guaranteed from
the Government's regular budget mechanism under CAR's present circumstances.
For this reason, a Forestry Conservation Fund will be established under the
project, which will draw its resources from: (i) the various tax proceeds that
currently revert to MEFCPT's affiliated agencies (ONF, CNPAF and OCATOUR); and
(ii) other external resources made available to CAR for activities relmtad to



16
the protection and management of forest and wildlife resources. A small unit
will be set up for operating this Fund, to be financed out of the Fund's
resources.   The unit will be composed of one representative of MEFCPT, one
financial controller seconded from the Finance Ministry and three support staff.
In the course of the year, MEFCPT will be allowed to draw from the Forestry
Conservation Fund for investment and operating expenditures in forestry and
wildliSe, as needed, within an approved annual work program and budget. A work
program and budget for 1991 will be submitted to IDA by November 1, 1990.
Thereafter annual work programs will be submitted to IDA for review and comments.
3.17        The detailed mechanism for operating the Forestry Conservation Fund
and collecting the corresponding taxes will be drawn up during the first year
of project implementation, with the assistance of a short-term financial expert
to be financed under the project.  The estimates given in Annex 7 show that,
based on the share of taxes on forest and wildlife resources that currentiy
accrue to MEFCPT affiliated agencies, the corresponding amounts to be deposited
in the Forestry Fund would be around CFAF 325 million annually, against projected
recurrent costs for MEFCPT operations after the project of about CFAF 256 million
annually, excluding the salaries of permanent staff (CFAF 426 million annually)
which will continue to be paid directly from the national budget.
3.18        The Forestry Conservation Fund will be initially established for a
period of three years and then automatically abolished unless formally renewed
by MEFCPT.  The criterion for renewal will be whether the national budgetary
mechanism being strengthened under ongoing macro-adjustment programs has become
reliable enough to ensure that adequate operating funds are provided for the
environmentally important forestry and wildlife sector.   At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the Forestry Conservation Fund will be established
by December 31, 1991; that an assessment will be carried out prior to that date,
i.e. by June 30, 1991, of the efficiency of current procedures for assessing
and collecting forestry and wildlife taxes; and that on the basis of that
assessment all appropriate measures required to improve the efficiency of the
system will be promptly implemented.
2. Detailed Features of the Investment Project Component
(a) Strengthening of MEPCPT
3.19        Equipment and Operating budget.  The project will provide MEFCPT's
field units and central services with the means necessary to carry out their
respective duties, including:
(i)   provision of offices and office equipment for all field
units, either through rehabilitation of existing
buildings, construction or rental allowances;
(ii)  purchase of one 4 wheel-drive vehicle and two mopeds for
each of the 16 field inspections, and of bicycles for
the forest guards and game rangers in the sub-
inspections;
(iii) provision for radio communication equipment to link field
services with headquarters;



17
(iv)  provision of vehicles, office and training equipment for
MEFCPT's central services;
(v)   provision  of  a  single  twin-engine  airplane  for
surveillance of poaching and forest encroachment
activities and for rapid intervention; and
(vi)  a general  operating budget  to cover miscellaneous
operating costs of MEFCPT's field units and central
services.
At negotlations, assurances were obtained that (i) Government will prepare by
November 1 of each year a work program and a budget for MEFCPT for the following
calendar year, and by March 1, a report on the progress achieved in the execution
of said program in the preceding year; and (ii) the aircraft required for
surveillance will at all times be operated by a duly licensed and experienced
professional pilot, regularly maintained and promptly repaired as and when
required in accordance with appropriate engineering practices, and used for
purposes not directly related to the project only to the extent that such use
would not interfere with the needs of the project and would be subject to payment
of appropriate fees by the user.
3.20        Technical  assistance.    To  assist with  the  restructuring  and
strengthening of MEFCPT both at headquarters and in the field, outside expertise
will be provided under the project, including: (i) one technical adviser to the
Hinister for four years. who will have strong conceptual abilities. This Senior
Forestry Adviser will act as the technical coordinato; of the project and will
support policy formulation, planning and coordination of natural resource
management; in particular, the Adviser will lead the redefinition of the role
of MEFCPT from control to development and extension and is expected to play a
central role in coordinating project activities with TFAP and in preparing
follow-up actions for TFAP and the project; and (ii) one specialist in
forest/wildlife management and protection for a period of three years, who will
have strong operational abilities. This Field Adviser will provide technical
support for all field activities and will be expected to assist in the definition
of work programs for field staff and in the monitoring, supervision and
evaluation of their work.   In particular, the expert will contribute to the
reorientation of staff duties from control to extension, and to the design and
running of suitable training programs. The expert will also design a reporting
system for field staff, enabling management to monitor progress of field
activities and permit an evaluation of their impact. In addition to these two
advisers, ongoing assistance from FAO for wildlife management, with the provision
of one expert working with MEFCPT's Direction of Wildlife, is expected to
continue during project implementation.  FAC is likely to provide additional
technical assistance in specialized fields (e.g., forestry research). Finally,
a provision is made under the project for 18 man-months of short-term consultancy
to assist the Ministry in various matters, including the elaboration of MEFCPT's
work program and budget and operating procedures for the Forestry Conservation
Fund, and the formulation and execution of training programs for existing and
new staff. At negotiations, it was agreed that the selection of experts for the
Senior Forestry Adviser and Field Adviser posts will be subject to prior review
of their qualifications by IDA.



18
3.21        Staff training.  Under the project, the duties and responsibilities
of MEFCPT's central services and field staff will change, and additional staff
will be recruited or transferred to field positions, thus requiring substantial
training and/or refresher courses.   All technical advisers involved in the
project are expected to devote a substantial share of their time to providing
on-the-job as well as formal training to their national counterparts and other
staff; they will be specifically responsible for organizing training sessions
or technical subjects related to forest and wildlife management and on
communication/extension methods both for headquarters and field staff of MEFCPT
and other concerned agencies. The cost of training will be financed under the
project as part of MEFCPT's strengthening. Provision is also made under the
project for a limited number of fellowships for overseas training of selected
higher level staff from MEFCPT.
3.22        Besides their regulatory and control functions, MEFCPT staff will
become increasingly involved in promoting environmental protection and
sustainable systems of land use throughout the country. Their involvement in
these activities will necessarily be of limited scope in the early years of the
project; it will gradually expand thereafter, as MEFCPT reorganization becomes
effective, its staff have been trained, and data become available from the forest
inventory and the pilot agro-forestry program. A number of priority actions of
a general nature will nonetheless be launched during the early years of the
project, including (i) a nation-wide campaign to promote environmental protection
and the use of improved stoves in urban and rural areas, to be done by MEFCPT
in collaboration with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) already active in
this field; and (ii) a review by MEFCPT of the experience gained in the various
rural development and forestry projects that have attempted to promote agro-
forestry and environmental protection in CAR's savanna and forest zones. This
initial work will serve as a basis for designing future projects to be
implemented in the field by MEFCPT's field agents and/or agricultural extension
staff of MDR; it will also provide useful information for the design of training
programs for MEFCPT's field staff in support of the gradual reorientation of
their activities toward an increased emphasis on development work in
collaboration with local populations.
3.23        When reorganizing and strengthening MEFCPT field units, priority will
be given to the urgent need for implementing forest protection measures along
the newly constructed French Ministry of Cooperation-financed 'Route du 4eme
Parall6le' which runs through the existing dense forest and can accelerate its
exploitation and degradation if measures are not taken to correctly protect the
forest area along the road. MEFCPT's intervention will aim at avoiding the
massive, spontaneous resettlement of villagers along the new road by identifying
sites suitable for agricultural development and ensuring that settlement is
limited to designated areas.   To this end, MEFCPT's field units will be
reinforced as a priority in this part of the country, forest protection areas
will be officially designated, areas will be earmarked to receive settlers, and
the corresponding regulations will be enforced with the help of a brigade which
will patrol the road for this putpose.



19
(b) Forest Inventory
3.24        Under the project, a national forest inventory will be carried out
over the 3.5 million ha of remaining dense forest in the southwestern part of
the country. This inventory will cover all species. At the same time, it will
include wildlife data collection to determine areas of abundance and vegetation
types particularly important to wildlife species. The size distribution of the
various forest types in different parts of the forest zone will be determined.
In this way, the inventory will give information on forast composition and its
current regeneration potential in different zones, thus providing the necessary
basis for improved mrnagement and planning of the use of forest resources, most
importantly their conservation. A master plan of the forest will be prepared
following the inventory so as to delineate areas to be maintained and added as
protected forests and wildlife reserves, and areas which can continue to be used
by the industry or for firewood supply to urban centers. When carrying out this
inventory, permanent sample plots will be established on which the evolul.ion of
the forest will be monitored in subsequent years at regular intervals (e.g.,
every five years).  Spot satellite imagery will also be used on a regular basis
after completion of the national inventory for monitoring the evolution of CAlQs
dense forest.
3.25        Besides contributing to resource use planning, the forest inventory
will provide useful background information which, together with subsequent more
detailed inventories of specific parts of the forests, will help MEPCPT control
forest industry operations.   It will also (i) improve the basis for land
classification, by taking into account the actual production potential and value
of the forest in different zones; (ii) specify the technical standards for forest
industries in their forest management plans to ensure adequate protection of the
long-term production potential of the areas covered by exploitation permits;
(iii) determine areas which can be further studied (environmental assessment)
for possible leasing as forest concessions; and (iv) earmark areas with
vegetation types important to wildlife species, which are to be excluded from
logging.
3.26        Data interpretation of the inventory findings will be made available
to the WWF-supported project team (para 3.33) in the area concerned.   These
findings, together with initial field results from the forest reserve component,
are expected to contribute to the elaboration of a detailed land use plan for
the southwestern dense forest zone of CAR. This plan would take into account
the need for environmental protection, the industrial potential of the forest,
agro-socio-economic aspects related to population densities, the use of forest
resources by local populations for agricultural and other purposes, and available
and economically v5lable technologies to reduce pressure on land and forest
resources.
3.27        Recent aerial photographs, financed by IDA, will be used together
with existing topographical maps for carrying out the national forest inventory.
It is expected that field work for the inventory will be executed by three main
survey teams, at an overall sampling rate of about Q.lZ with adequate
stratification of the sampling units to provide the required degree of accuracy.
Computerized forest maps at a scale of 1/200,000 with interactive linkage to the
corresponding database will be produced as a result of the forest inventory.



20
It is expected that the preparation of survey standards, log scale tables, etc.
and the initial training of surveyors and other staff will take about six months
to one year, the field surveys themJelves about two and a half years, and the
final preparation and editing of maps another six months, thus allowing full
completion of the national forest inventory by the end of the four-year project
implementation period. In the second or third year of the project, part of the
staff trained for the national forest inventory will also participate in the
preparation of a detailed forest inventory and management plan for the pilot
agro-forestry zone (paras 3.30-3.32).
3.28        Forest inventory work will be conducted by a specialized firm or
competent institution which will carry out all works in the CAR, thereby giving
an opportunity to train IEFCPT's staff in all aspects including field work and
subsequent data processing and cartography.  The foreign technical personnel
will be responsible for providing local staff with the requisite training and
they will work in close collaboration with their counterparts from the forest
inventory service of MEFCPT's Direction of Forests, who will be taking on
increasing responsibility as inventory work proceeds. By the end of the project,
MEFCPT staff will have been provided with substantial on-the-job and field
training and will be in a position to effectively pursue the work, update the
inventory, and prepare detailed inventories, management plans and environmental
impact assessment for specific parts of the forest.
3.29        The project will finance the costs of the national forest inventory,
including office establishment costs for MEFCPT's Forest Inventory Service,
vehicle purchase and operation for field surveys, data processing and other
equipment, staff training, local labor costs, and the cost of technical
assistance to be provided by a single firm or institution with appropriate
experience and adequate technical back-up from its headquarters.  A detailed
implementation schedule for the forest inventory work and for the agro-forestry
component (see below) is presented in Annex 8.
(c) Pilot Agro-Forestry and Land Management Component
3.30        To slow down deforestation resulting from uncontrolled fuelwood
exploitation and cultivation practices, technical alternatives to the existing
systems economically viable for the rural populations need to be developed.
Considering their low standards of living, this is a delicate matter since the
current shifting cultivation system, although destructive, is probably one of
the best ways of ensuring high short-term returns for poorly equipped farmers.
3.31        A pilot project in the forest zone surrounding the city of Bangui
where pressure on the forest and environmental degradation is high will be
implemented to define and test the most appropriate technical packages and
intervention methods for fostering improved forest management and the adontion
of sustainable land use systems by rural populations. The pilot project will
be catried out in close collaboration with the local population, in a total of
about 15 villages distributed among three forest subinspections. In the first
year of project implementation, agro-socio-economic surveys will be conducted
in these villages with the help of local and international consultants, in order
to obtain specific data on the density and mobility of the population, existing
land tenure and land use systems, technical and socio-economic constraints to
improved land and iabor productivity, current attitudes of the people toward the



21
forest and the environment, etc. A program of research and development actions
will be defined on this basis and implemented in subsequent years; it will
include the testing of techniques and organizational measures to promote (i)
improved management of the remaining natural forest through rational exploitation
of existing trees, techniques to foster regrowth of the most valuable species,
establishment of firebreaks, extension of improved carbonization techniques for
charcoal production, etc; (ii) planting of trees on agricultural land for various
uses (maintenance of soil fertility, erosion control, sustainable production of
fire and construction wood, fruit production, etc.); and (iii) development and
extensioni of improved cultivation systems less destructive to the forest and
soils than the current ones. For these actions to be effective, specific land
user rights will be allocated to the concerned local communities on an individual
and/or collective basis, the effectiveness of which will be monitorid under the
pilot program for possible future extension to other parts of the forest zone.
This should not pose any problems since land tenure is not yet a serious issue
in the area bordering the forest where land is relatively abundant.   At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government will, by June 30, 1991,
grant user rights to farmers established in selected forest subdivisions in the
area covered by the agro-forestry component.
3.32        Given the need to implement the pilot component through intensive
field work in close collaboration with the local population, the assistance of
a suitable NGO will be sought for executing this part of the project. The NGO
will work in collaboration with MEFCPT and MDR field staff in the three concerned
subinspections/districts and will receive adequate support from MEFCPT's central
services, including in particular the reforestation and soil conservation service
of the Forest Directorate.   MEFCPT's forest inventory service will also be
involved in the execution of a detailed bio-physical inventory (flora and fauna)
and the design of a management plan for the natural forests located within the
pilot zone.  The project will finance the costs involved in implementing the
pilot component, including additional local and expatriate staff, funds for agro-
socio-economic surveys and short-term consultancies, vehicles and other
equipment, operating costs, and a flexible fund for specific activities
benefiting rural communities.
(d) Support to the Protection and Management of Wildlife in a
Dense Forest Reserve
3.33        The ongoing WFJUSAID-supported project for the protection of a dense
forest reserve in the Dzang..-Sangha area has shown interesting preliminary
results, but implementation is constrained by insufficient operational means and
a very limited budget. This project, located at the southernmost tip of CAR's
dense forest near the Cameroonian and Congolese borders, covers a total area of
about 4,600 km2, of which about one-fourth (1,220 km2) is being designated as
a national park and the remainder constitutes a buffer zone where collaboration
is sought with the local population to protect the environment. A small project
unit has been established at Bayanga and the main access roads to the national
park have been rehabilitated; WWFIUSAID have also financed the purchase of three
vehicles and the salaries of one expatriate project director and his national
counterpart, together with 20 forest guards seconded from MEFCPT to ensure
wildlife protection in the forest reserve. In addition, Peace Corps volunteers
are involved in educational programs to increase the awareness of the population



22
on the need to protect the environment, rural health improvement particularly
for the pygmies, and collaboration with the local populations to improve their
hunting. gathering and fishing techniques and the agricultural production
systems. Botanical investigations and scientific research on elephants, gorillas
and antilopes are also undertaken in collaboration with American universities.
3.34        The approach adopted under the WWF/USAID-supported component is sound
and will be financially and materially supported to ensure that operations are
carried out in an efficient manner and at the required scale. In particular,
items to be financed under the project will include, besides technical
assistance: (i) additional infrastructure for the national park (establishment
of guard camps, construction or rehabilitation of access roads and tracks, etc.);
(ii) vehicles and other equipment for management and protection of the national
park, and for support to extension activities undertaken in the buffer zone in
collaboration with the local populations; and (iii) operating costs for these
protection and development activities.   Government has approved the draft
legislation establishing the Dzanga-Sangha dense forest reserve and the Dzanga-
Ndoki national park. It is now with the National Assembly for approval. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government will hire experts
whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to IDA to manage the forest
reserve component.
(e) Administration Unit
3.35        A small project administration unit, with one national financial
controller assisted by one expatriate financial controller, will be set up for
the four-year period of the project. It will handle procurement and disbursement
for all components. The project will finance all related costs, including office
equipment and supplies, technical assistance, additional local staff, and the
cost of developping the project annual work program and budget as well as a
system for monitoring the budget and annual auditing of the project's account.
A study fund will also be provided to support unexpected needs for expert
assistance, including possible studies required in the course of the TFAP
process.   During negotiations assurances were obtained that Government will
employ and maintain during the project period an accountant with qualifications
and professional experience satisfactory to IDA. It was also agreed that this
will constitute a condition of disbursement for the investment project.
C. Project Organization
3.36        The main responsibility for project execution is intended to rest
with the national institution in charge of forestry and wildlife management and
conservation. Thus, the reorganized MEFCPT will have overall responsibility for
implementing the project.  The Minister himself will be the project manager.
He will be seconded by the General Director of Central Services for all
activities relating to policy and planning, personnel and financial management,
as well as for all headquarters technical support activities to field operations
(e.g., forest inventory activities). He will be seconded by the General Director
of Field Services for all activities of the Ministry's field divisions. The
Senior Forestry Adviser and the Field Operation Adviser will have merely an
advisory role. They will assist the Minister and his senior managers in their
respective tasks, and will be required to perform training and coaching functions
throughout the period of their assignments. The MEFCPT's Minister, together with



23
his headquarters staff, will be directly in charge of the Sector Adjustment
Program, including updating and/or elaborating new legislation and regulations
pertaining to the policy and institutional reforms, as well as carrying out the
institutional strengthening component. MEFCPT will play a leadership role in
planning the yearly activities of all components; approving work programs,
budgets and expenditures; monitoring project technical activities; preparing
periodic reports (based on submissions from managers of each component); and
accounting.
3.37        For the execution of the national inventory and agro-forestry pilot
components one foreign firm will provide technical and procurement services.
Firms will be invited to associate themselves with a NGO to lower costs and to
minimize disruption when IDA financing ceases. It is intended that one selected
firm will also supply the financial controller for these components as well as
for the entire project, and will a.ct as the procurement agent for all procurement
under the project, in order to economize on project overhead costs and permit
larger purchases. The Senior Forestry Adviser will be independent from the firm
so as to provide the Minister with an objective assessment of the firm's
activities.
3.38        The last project component, the protection and management of a dense
forest reserve, will be executed in the field by the WWF-supported project team
under the supervision of the Minister and his Cabinet. At the cabinet level,
one of the two national senior advisors will be directly responsible for
supervising this component.
3.39        The administration unit,  including the national and expatriate
financial controllers, will be located within the Direction of Administrative
and Financial services.
D. Proiect Costs, Financing, Procurement, Disbursements and Accounts
1. Project Costs
3.40        The project will be implemented over four years. Total project costs
including physical and price contingencies are estimated at US$26.3 million,
including a fast disbursing component of US$2 million and an investment component
of US$24.3 million. The cost of the investment component includes preparation
activities which have been financed under the PPF and carried out in 1988/89,
and will be refinanced under the proposed credit. Base costs are estimated in
June 1989 (appraisal) prices and are net of import taxes. Physical contingencies
have been allowed at 10 on buildings and other infrastructure, and 5Z on
vehicles and other equipment. Price contingencies have been calculated on base
cost plus physical contingencies and compounded annually on the following basis:
(a) inflation on foreign costs of 7.2Z p.a. for 1989 and 1990 and 4.4?
thereafter; and (b) inflation on local costs of 4X annually.  Detailed cost
estimates are presented in Annex 9 and summarized below:



24
Estimated Pro1ect Cot:
I Total
* Foraign   8as
Local  Forsion    Total   Loal  For*'    Total  Ezchano   Ct.
-- FCFA r lfion ----        u,  i Ion       -----
Institution Streanthening    2,149.11  1.481.47  S,880.68   7.16    4.77  11.94    89.98   86.97
Forest Inventorp          88.o09   829.81  1,227.40   1.33    2.76   4.09    67.57    19.88
gro-Forestry Pilot        126.10   290.03   416.14   0.42    0.97   1.39    69.70    6.62
Forst Resrve Protection   201.69   275.09   476.78   0.67    0.92   x.89    67.70    7.59
Project Aduinietration     76.59   297.47   874.06   0.26    0.99   1.2S    79.52    5.98
Project Prepar. Facility    0.00   210.00   210.00   0.00    0.70   0 70   100.00    8.34
Total BASEIH` COSTS     2,961.59  8,833.Z7  6,284.96   9.84   11.11  20.93    53.04   loo.oo
Phyasicsl Contingencies  29.68    45.36    75.04   0.10    0.1S   0.23    60 45   t.19
Price Contingencloo    376.11   539.6   91s.9?   1.28    1.0   S.05 >   8.94    14.57
INVESTMENT PROJCOT COST  3,357.38  3,918.68  7,275.96  11.19   iS.0S   24.25    88.86  lS.77
SECTOR AOJD$TMEN'T COST     0.00   600.00   600.00   0.00    2.00   2.00   100.00    nO.
TOTAL COST           ,357.38  4,618.88  7,875.96   11.19   15.06  26.25    87.00  n.s.
2. Project Financing
3.41           The sector adjustment program will be financed by IDA (US$2 million).
It is eligible for additional financing under SPA cofinancing arrangements for
countries under adjustment. An additional US$8 million is envisaged under SPA
to  assist  in  filling  the  country's  external  financing  gap.    The  investment
project component of US$24.25 million will be financed by IDA (US$17 million),
WWFIUSAID  (US$400,000)  and  the Government  (US$6.85 million).   According  to a
recent decree, all projects are now expected to pay import duties and taxes.
Consequently, duties and taxes on project related imports will be assessed and
included in the yearly budget estimates of the MEFCPT. In parallel, government
contribution  to  the  project  will  be  increased  by  said  amount.    Retroactive
financing will be permitted for up to 102 of the credit amount for expenditures
incurred no sooner than four months prior to credit signing.
Investment Project
Financing Plan by Project Component
(US$ million)
IDA        WWF             Govt.              Total
Inst.  Strengthening                      6.96          -              6.85             13.81
Forest Inventory                          4.80          -                -                4.80
Agro-Forest.  Pilot Proj.                 1.61           -               -                1.61
Forest Reserve Protection                 1.49        0.40               -                1.89
Project Administration                    1.44          -                -                1.44
PPF                                       0.70           -               -                0.70
Total                                17.00        0.40              6.85             24.25
Share of Financing  (Z)              70.12        1.7Z            28.2?            100.0O



25
Investment Project
Financing Plan by Disbursement Cate9ory
mUSI millIon)
LocalI
For.   (Excl.
IDA   WWF  Govt   total   X    Exch.   Taxes)
Civil Works                       0.93   0.1  0.00    1.03    4.24   0.39   0.84
Vohicles A Equipment              8.05   0.1   0.00    3.15  12.98   2.66   0.80
Experts                           38.1   0.2  0.00    3.81   15.70   8.08   0.72
Consulting Services               4.10    -   0.00    4.10   16.92   8.32   0.78
Studies & audit                   1.11    -   0.00    1.11   4.59   1.03   0.08
Training                          1.14    -   0.00    1.14   4.70   0.43   0.71
Civil Servants Salaries           0.00    -   56.8     5.68   22.99   0.00  65.8
Other Operating Costs             8.07    -   1.27    4.84   17.88  1.96   2.39
Total Disbursement            17.00   0.4  6.85   24.26  100.00  13.06  11.19
3. Procurement
Amounts & Methods of Procurement
(US$ '000)
Procurement Category                  ICB        LCB          Other        Total
Civil Works                             -        500          300            800
Vehicles & Equipment               2,200         300          100          2,600
Techn. Assistance
a) MEFCPT Restructuring               -          -        3,000          3,000
b) Inventory & Agro-Forestry                     -        3,500          3,500
c) Forest Reserve Protection          -          -          400            400
Training                                           -        1,000          1,000
Operating Costs                         -          -        2,600          2,600
Subtotal                           2,200         800       10,900         13,900
PPF                                                                          700
Sector Adjustment                                                          2,000
Unallocated                                                                2,400
TOTAL IDA Credit                                                          19,000
3.42       Procurement for sector adjustment has been designed to permit rapid
use of funds while ensuring efficiency and accountability in the process. The
Government will follow public procurement procedures, which have been reviewed
and found acceptable, and will seek three price quotations, a procedure generally
followed in CAR. Private sector purchases will follow established commercial
practices, and whenever possible, quotations from eligible suppliers from at
least two countries will be sought. Direct contracting (single source purchase)
will be allowed only for proprietary equipment or where compatibility with
existing equipment calls for standardized equipment and spare parts.



26
Verification of imports has been limited to date to physical inspection by the
Customs Service. Under SAL III, the Government is considering hiring expert
agencies to certify goods in respect of quality, quantity and price of shipments.
The procedure is expected to be in place shortly and will apply to this operation
which will be running concurrently with SAL III.
3.43       Procurement for the project investment component will be as follows:
(a)  Civil Works:  In view of the relatively small value of the buildings
to be constructed (US$500,000), local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures will apply. LCB procedures have been recently reviewed
and seem acceptable. In any case LCB procedures will involve local
advertising, public bid opening, clearly spelled out criteria and
award to the lowest evaluated bidder; foreign suppliers will not be
precluded from participation. IDA will review the first LCB document
to ensure compliance. There are also a number of small works to be
carried out (rehabilitation of field offices (US$300,000). Because
these works are small in value and scattered, either force account or
a minimum of three quotations will be solicited.
(b)  Equipment:   For vehicles, equipment and material (for a total of
US$2.6 million), all contracts exceeding US$100,000 will be procured
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB).  Whenever possible,
items will be grouped into purchases of at least US$100,000.
Purchases valued at less than US$100,000, but above US$50,000 will be
procured through LCB acceptable to IDA. Purchases for groups of items
valued at less than US$50,000 will be made through prudent shopping
on the basis of at least three quotations.
(c)  Consultants:  For consultancy services including forest inventory and
agro-forestry (US$3.5 million), technical experts for the Ministry and
the forest reserve project (US$3.4 million) and training (US$1
million), Bank guidelines for use of consultants will apply.
d)   Operatings Costs:  For operating costs (US$2.6 million) including
temporary salaries, vehicles and equipment operation and maintenance,
and acquisition of office supplies local procedures as applicable to
government procurement will apply.
4. Disbursements
3.44       Disbursements  of IDA funds in support of the sector adjustment
component will be against a positive list of imports by the agriculture and
forestry sectors. The rationale for allowing imports for the agriculture sector
is the need to promote settled agriculture (with inputs, farm machinery and
effective farm support services which will all be financed through the sector
adjustment component if not already financed by other donors). Sector imports
will be reimbursed at 10OZ of their CIF cost. These funds will be released in
two tranches of US$1 million each, about 18 months apart.   SPA funds, if
confirmed, will be expected to be disbursed against a negative list of imports,
thereby directly contributing to the country's balance of payment. A negative
list is necessary in this case because it would be impractical to disburse the
funds as many donors are already funding much of the sector's imports.



27
3.45       IDA funds for the investment component are projected to be disbursed
at the average pace of projects in CAR, which is 6 1/2 years even though the
project period is only four years. Disbursement categories and percentages are
indicated below.
Disbursement of IDA Credit
Categories                           Amount             I Financed by IDA
(US$ million)
Civil Works                          0.80                      100l
Vehicles and Equipment               2.10                      100?
Aircraft                             0.50                       100%
Consultant's Services for:
a) Restructuring of MEFCPT    3.00                       1002
b) Inventory & Agro-forestry  3.50                       100?
c) Forest Reserve Protection  0.40                       100?
Training                             1.00                      100?
Operating Costs                      2.60                      1002 in PY1
and 2
50? in PY3
40X in PY4
Sector Adjustment Program            2.00                      100?
Project Preparation Facility         0.70                      100?
Unallocated                          2.40
Total                  19.00
3.46        A special account will be opened by MEFCPT at a commercial bank for
IDA disbursements against project investment expenditures. 'Where payments for
contracts are to be made out of the Special Account, two copies of the contract
will be furnished to IDA prior to the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract. After effectiveness and on the basis of a written
request by the Government, IDA will deposit the equivalent of US$500,000 in the
Special Account.
3.47        Disbursements will be on full documentation except for those based
on statements of expenditures (SOEs), which will be used for contracts costing
less than US$250,000; consulting services costing less than US$100,000; and all
operating costs and training.  For ICB contracts between US$250,000 and US$l
million, copies of invitation to bids, evaluation reports and contract will be
submitted with the withdrawal application which will include evidence of
shipment,  payment and invoices.   SOEs will provide clear information on
description of goods, country of origin, date and currency of payment, commercial
banks involved, and beneficiaries.   SOEs will  be certified by the project
Financial Controller and signed by the Forestry Minister. SOEs will be subject
to specific review by auditors.  Supporting documentation (invoices, customs
declaration and evidence of payment) will be retained by MEFCPT (for the



28
investment project) and by the National Debt Management Agency, CAADE (for the
sector adjustment program) for examination by IDA missions.
5. Accounts, Audits and Reporting
3.48        The project Administration Unit will be responsible for overall
administration and financial control of the project. It will maintain accounts,
prepare disbursement applications and manage project funding for all investment
components.   Simi1arly,  CAADE will maintain accounts, prepare disbursement
applications and manage project funding for the sector adjustment component.
From project year three onward the Forestry Fund will be administered jointly
by the project Financial Controller and a financial controller on secondment from
the Ministry of Finance.  It was agreed at negotiations that (a) the project
accounts, SOEs, and the Forestry Fund accounts will be audited annually by
auditors acceptable to IDA; (b) the audit reports will be submitted to IDA no
later than four months after the close of each f,nancial year; and (c) the
project Administration Unit will submit biannual progress reports and a report
on the overall project implementation and achievements to IDA within six months
of project closing date.
6. Tranche Release
3.49        Release of the first and second tranches will be linked to the
following conditions (Annex 10):
Conditions already fulfilled
(a)   Government has made progress satisfactory to IDA in implementing
macro-economic adjustment program.
(b)   The revised Forestry Code has been approved by the council of
Ministers and submitted to the National Assembly for approval.
(c)   A policy directive from the President has been issued to all local
authorities instructing them to implement strict measures against
illegal hunting and poaching.
(d)   MEFCPT's new organization and staffing plan acceptable to IDA have
been adopted.
(e)   Draft  legislation  establishing  the  Dzanga-Sangha  Dense  Forest
Sanctuary and the Dzanga/Ndoki national park has been approved by
the Council of Ministers.
Second Tranche Conditions
(a)   Government progress in implementing its macro-economic adjustment
program is satisfactory.
(b)   Essential decrees needed to implement the new Forestry Code have been
enacted (inicluding texts related to bushf ire control, forest permits,
and forestry tax collection).



29
(c)   MEFCPT reorganization and staffing have been completed according to
the staffing plan.
(d)   ONF, CNPAF and OCATOUR have been dissolved.
3.50        IDA support of the investment project will be closely linked with
the sector adjustment program.   Should the execution of the program not be
satisfactory, disbursement of the investment project would be suspended. Key
policy measures with monitorable indicators are presented in Annex 5. Key steps
(non policy actions) required to successfully implement the forest inventory and
agro-forestry sub-components are indicated in Annex 8.
E. Benefits and Risks
1. Project Benefits
3.51        The Natural Resource Management Project will constitute the first
phase of a long-term program aimed at preserving one of CAR's main resources,
forest and wildlife, and at ensuring its rational use both by rural populations
and by industries. In the absence of adequate measures to protect CAR's forest
and wildlife resources, their decline would continue at an accelerating
irreversible pace. The benefits of the project will thus be wide-ranging, since
it will help to:
(a)   ensure the rational exploitation of CAR's forest re3ources on
a sustainable basis, thus bringing continuous foreign exchange
and fiscal receipts, as well as employment in this important
sector of the economy;
(b)   maintain the resource base necessary for the future expansion
of controlled hunting and observation tourism, both of which
could bring substantial additional returns to the economy; and
(c)   improve existing agriculture in the forest zone by providing
the necessary basis for sustainability, thus contributing to
future self-sufficiency in food and firewood production, and
foreign exchange receipts from cash crops.
3.52        Without the type of protection measures initiated under the project,
the irreversible degradation of CAR's forest and soil would increase due to the
rapid population growth expected over the next 20 years. This degradation would
ultimately translate into substantial negative changes in the climate and water
regimen both in CAR and in neighboring countries. As the same time, the loss
of biodiversity that would result from the destruction of CAR's very rich
wildlife and forest ecosystems would lead to the disappearance of a wealth of
plant and animal genetic resources, the full potential of which has yet to be
explored to the benefit not only of CAR, but also of other countries.
3.53        In the short-term, the main contribution of the project to the
protection and conservation of CAR's natural resources will result from MEFCPTIs
institutional strengthening. In particular, the field units of MEFCPT will be
in a position to enforce existing rules and regulations on wildlife and forest
protection in a much more effective manner than is currently the case, which



30
should result in: (i) a reduction of poaching and illegal hunting, and hence
of wildlife destruction, together with an improved control of the activities of
forest industries to ensure their compatibility with the protection and long-
term sustained use of CAR's natural resource base; and (ii) improvements in the
tax collection rates on wildlife and forest exploitation activities.   The
corresponding economic benefits cannot be quantified at this stage, due to a lack
of data on existing forest and wildlife resources and their currer.t rate of
degradation. However, it should be noted that a 15Z real growth in sector tax
receipts (which would then go up from about CFAF 594 million at present to CFAF
683 million by Project Year 3, excluding custom duties on timber products and
indirect taxes borne by the forest industries) would be sufficient to finance
the net incremental personnel and operating costs of HEFCPT.  It is estimated
(Annex 7) that incremental tax receipts will in fact be higher as a result of
improved tax assessment and field controls by the reorganized and strengthened
MEFCPT, increasing from CFAF 594 million in 1989 to CFAF 754 million in 1991.
3.54        In the medium-term, the project will result in a better knowledge
of the natural and human environment of CAR's dense tropical forest, which is
an essential prerequisite for its rational use. In particular:
(a)   the results of the national forest inventory will serve as a
basis for sound planning and further improvements in the
regulations governing the use of the remaining forest
resources; improved management will mean a switch from forest
management that maximizes private sector profits to management
of the forest as a long-term renewable resource, where
reproductive capacity does not decrease overtime; under such
improved management forest resources that will have been
identified through the inventory are expected to permit further
investments in the forestry sector, thereby generating
additional employment and income while ensuring that logging
practices are compatible with the overall conservation of CAR's
environment and natural forest resources;
(b)   the pilot agro-forestry component will help define appropriate
technical packages, intervention methods and a legislative
framework for fostering the adoption of sustainable systems
of land use by the rural populations, prior to their extension
on a larger scale to other parts of the forest zone; and
(c)   the support provided under the project for the protection and
management of the Dzanga-Sangha forest reserve will introduce
urgent conservation measures in one of the richer parts of
CAR's dense tropical forest; at the same time, measures will
be designed and tested for fostering and increasing the
involvement of local populations in the management of the
environment in the reserve area, particularly through the local
redistribution of a substantial share of the income derived
from rational wildlife exploitation and protection, and from
touristic activities.
At the end of the four-year project period, sufficient knowledge of
the physical and human environment of the CAR tropical forest will have been



31
acquired, which together with institutional strengthening and staff training,
will allow MEFCPT's mandate to be broadened from essentially control activities
to development. A possible follow-up project therefore would be expected to
support a much expanded investment program in the natural resource sector,
including natural forest management, agro-forestry, rnational park development
and village woodlot plantations.
2. Social Dimensions of Adjustment
3.55        Forest degradation, which reflects inexistent or poor management of
fragile, yet important, ecosystems is of increasing concern, not only because
of the resultant losses of potential agricultural, industria, and biological
resources, but also because of its immediate impact on the economic well being
of forest communities and forest dwellers who depend on harvested forest products
for their livelihood.   For these populations, the mere preservation of the
national forest means a continuous supply of plant food (roots and fruit), meat,
medicinal plants, fuelwood, and raw material3 for construction and implements.
Efficient multi-use forestry management systems, which will be supported under
the forest reserJe project and further developed under the agro-forestry pilot
scheme, will not only maintain but also eventually increase the economic benefits
which local people draw from the forest.
3.56        A group likely to benefit most from the long-term preservation of
the natural forest is the pygmies.   The very foundation of their physical,
cultural and spiritual existence lies in the forest. To protect and preserve
the existence of the pygmies is to protect the forest itself.  Provision of
stable environmental conditions integral to the pygmy life systems is thereby
pursued, not to enforce "primitivism' as a tourist attraction but to allow them
to continue or modify their lifestyle. Also, the project recognizes that pygmies
are a vast repository of knowledge.   Not only are they familiar with the
thousands of species of their ecosystem but they also truly understand the
ecological interrelationships of the various components of their resource base.
By recognizing the value of this indigenous knowledge, the forest reserve project
will directly contribute to enhancing the status of the pygmy population in the
local African society.
3. Project Risks
3.57        In recent years, the CAR Government has been increasingly concerned
with improving the management of forest and wildlife resources, with the
objective of developing the contribution of these resources to the national
economy while ensuring adequate protection of the environment.   There is
nonetheless a risk of slower implementation of project than expected, due to the
initial weak state of natural resource institutions in CAR and the substantial
restructuring and staff redeployment effort required to make these institutions
effective. For this reason, a substantial external technical assistance input
has been included in the project, starting in Project Year 1 and phasing itself
out in years 3 and 4. Another major risk stems from the long-term nature of the
activities to be developed under the project, which will require continuous
funding much beyond the 4-year project implementation period. To mitigate *his
risk, measures are included in the project to foster increased involvement of
the users of forest and wildlife resources (both industries and local
populations) in environmental protection. At the same time, through the Forestry



32
Conservation Fund to be set up under the project, a mechanism will be established
for ensuring adequate funding of MEFCPT's general operations during and after
the project implementation period. Since the Forestry Conservation Fund will
draw its resources from sector tax receipts, part of these taxes will be
reinvested in the environmentally important forest and wildlife sector of the
economy, thus contributing to its long-term sustainability.
PAR" IV.  BANZ GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY IN CAR
4.1         As of end February 1990, 20 IDA credits had been made to the CAR,
totallir.g US$234 million equivalent (Annex 11). Of this, about US$100 million
equivalent was lent for investment in, and rehabilitation of, the transport,
education, and agricultural sectors and approximately US$134 million for
structural adjustment, adjustment of the cotton sector, and technical assistance.
Total disbursements to date are slightly under US$140 million equivalent. Total
commitments during FY90-92 are expected to be about US$115 million, compared with
US$104 million in FY87-89. Overall, during the period FY90-92 about 40Z will
be non-project lending and technical assistance.
4.2         IDA's long-term goal is to assist CAR in re-establishing sustained
per-capita income growth. Since 1986, IDA's assistance strategy has amplified
and has emphasized policy-based lending.  Its main thrust is to suppoit the
Government's adjustment reform efforts through lending and economic and sector
work. Three fast disbursing loans have been approved: SAL I in September 1986,
a Cotton Sector Adjustment Operation in July 1987, -*nd SAL II in June 1988. In
addition to the sector adjustment component of the project, a third SAL is
planned for FY90.  For the Government to maintain momentum in the adjustment
process, financial support through a series of fast-disbursing loans--including
SPA financing--is crucial in the face of the serious difficulties caused by the
drop in world prices for the country's principal exports and the very tight
public finance situation.
4.3         Given CAR's relatively weak administrative capacity and its lack of
trained manpower, technical assistance will continue to be needed for the
foreseeable future, with a strong emphasis on institution building.   Three
technical assistance projects have been approved for CAR.   Activities have
included assistance in planning and debt rescheduling, preparing and implementing
the structural adjustment program, drafting significant sector legislation, and
preparing and implementing government policy for the civil service and the
parastatal sector. The most recent technical assistance project, the Economic
Management Project, approved in December 1988, was designed as a flexible support
mechanism for the structural adjustment program.
4.4         To implement and elaborate the macroeconomic adjustment measures
taken in the context of the Government's structural adjustment program, the Bank
Group strategy includes operations at the sector/project level such as:
institutional development projects to build up agricultural services and improve
the management of forestry resources; sector programs focusing on overall sector
investment, institutional strengthening, and priority recurrent expenditures
(e.g., transport, energy, water supply); and social sector programs to develop
basic social services and improve investment ard expenditures PItterns in health
and education, and to help offset the social costs of adjustment.



33
4.5         Agriculture, including forestry, is clearly the first priority.  In
addition to the National Resource Management Project, two operations are planned
for FY90-92:   an agricultural support services project and an export crops
promotion project. An enterpriLe development project is also being prepared to
complement the SALs in the areas of industrial promotion and SMEs.
Infrastructure, in particular roads, is another priority, including transport,
energy and water supply. A transport sector project has recently been appraised
to strengthen sector institutions and the road maintenance program, including
rural roads, as well as to address some issues of management of the international
routes to the sea. An energy project to rehabilitate and improve the management
of the parastatal providing this key service and make necessary infrastructural
investments was approved in January 1989, while a water/urban infrastructure
project addressing these same issues in the water supply sector is planned for
FY92.
4.6         In the social sector, an education sector project  (approved in
December 1987) is supporting government efforts to reorient its education
strategy within the framework of the structural adjustment program to give a more
effective response to the nation's real manpower needs; improving the quality
and efficiency of the primary education system is a major objective of the
credit. Finally, preparation of a health sector project has begun, which has
the key objectives of improving the coverage of basic curative and preventive
health services, developing an AIDS prevention program, and rationalizing human
and financial resource utilization in order to achieve an optimal social rate
of return.
PART V. RECOMMENDATION
5.1         I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.  I recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the Credit.
Barber Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
April 11, 1990



Annexc I
Page 1 of 3
COMTAL AMICM4  IOAC - GCEC XOICATM
N4i8-1988Population (elI) 
1968 Pop Cote, Ia(8  iA 14:        390
A. Shares, of Cros. Doestic PIe  cf6 tth RSe(W  pop. cnn,.)
lf.. wurrant prlem date)                        (fts coneutn, pf.c. deto)
194*    197     1980    19680   1987   1Me             3983-73 1I700 1916K-87   1967    1988
cr,.. loeoet.c Proj.ct e.p        100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                   2.9     1.7     2.2      1.0     1.5
Net IndireCt  6ae                  .7     1.9     8.9     6.9     3.0     8.6 .1.
Ag.'.  Iture                     43.8   St.1 I    7.  3.6  .    41       41.11             9.1     1.8     2.4     8.0      2.8
Industryj                       14.6   24.?   18.9   12.9   12 ! 11.9                      7.1     8.2-    2.2   -2.2       0.0
(of ehiCh  ef A,n)               3.8     1.2      6.6     6.2     1       7.3               . .    8.6     0.8   46.1       1.3
sorvice.                         316.0    3411.   81.8   42.6   42.      42.6              1.6     1.9     1.81    4.2      0.9
Reabo.rce Balance                 -10.    -14.2  -18.0  -14.4  -19.8  -12.4..                          .
Eaperta of OfI                  27. 1    25.2   25. 1    19.4   I16.81   118.6            0.8     2.7   -4.0   -0.2   -1.0
Impo..t. of Q0$a                37.7   39.4   42.6    88.8   88.2    29.2                  1.?     8.2    -1. 1    -4.1I  -12.0
Total Eepe.4it.jr,e               110.81  114.2   1181.8   114.4  116.4   112.4              2.6     2.9     2.8     0.1    -1.9
Total Cnaummptien               89.2    92.1  109.6   99.1  103.4  102.8                   3.0     4.8     1.0      1.9     1.7
Pries.. Cone.V6t;o,,          66.9   71 5    94.8    68.8   98.8   92.5                  8.4     6.0     1.8      1.8     2.0
cennrel Coenet22.2    20.1    15.1I   18.2   10.2   10.1                                 1.7   -0.9   .3.1       2.6      0.0
Cross 0wa.etie  nee.n            21.4    92.1t    7.0    18.4   1.8.5   11.6               2.81  410.6    14.6  -10.1  -27.2
Fi.od 1..*eetmoet                ..      .       .9    14.6    18.0     9.8                .      ..    14.8  -10.2  -25.9
Changes lin Stocks               .       .      0.1     0.6     0.4     2.0                .       .
OIr... Cocsetic Saving             10.8     7.9   -9.6      0,9   -2.9   40.6                4.8      .
Net Fact.or Incoo.               -0.8   -0.2      0.8   -1.8    1.4.      -2.0               .       .
Not Current Tranefor6             0.0   -2.0   -2.1   -2.0   -2.2   -2.2..                          .
Oro". Netigei Saving               10.8     5.7  -11.4   -2.4   _41.81   '4.8                  .      .
In bilIl ions of LCLJe            188   1.918    1960    1968    1997    1908
(.1 Constant 1980 pricese)        --        -       --
Oro.. Domooa"c Product            128     154     168     lo9     191      194             2.9     1.?     2.2      1.0     1.6
Capacity. to Ieport.              26       32      44      a       s0      s0              0.9     8.9   43.8   -17.1I   -0.8
Tar.* of Trae. Adjustaent           7       3       0       2      -2       -2.                      .
Croes Domestic loco".            1a2      186     186     191     169     192              2.6     2.4     2.3   -1.2       1.6
()r*.& Netionel Product.          124     158     169     as      161      16n             8.1     1.6     1.6     0.4      1.4
Crone National Incom.             131     15O     169     lee     165     166              3.1     2.5     1.9   -1.6       1.8
C. Price led ice.                  1960    1964    1965    19681   1967    1968           198811-731 1913-60 196847   1967    1968
Consueor Price. (IFS 64)              .       .      .        .       ..      ...                      .
wholeeal. Price. (IFS 68)         100).0   151.0  181.2  161.8  166.7        ..2.1    11.2                   7.7     0.7
leplicit CDP Deflator             100.0   188.1I  189.8  175.0  169.5  172.0                 3.0   14.6      7.9   43.1       1.8
lepticit Eepeodituree Oaf I.      100.0   1880.2  178.6   172.   172.8  174.7                3.1    18.8     8.0   -0.6       1.4
0. Other Indi4etor.:             1968-13 1978-60 19W607
Orowth Ret*o(W P.*.);
Populwtion                       1.8      2,2     2.8
Labor Force
Cron. Net'l. Income P.C.          1.8     0.3   -0.6
Private Consueption P.C.          1.8     8.7   -0.9
Import Elawti'.i%y:
Imoorte (G*W5) I 0DP(mp)         0.6      8.8   -0.5
Moarinal saving. Ratoe:
Oro". Notional Sev,ng           -19.3  -184.9    38.8
Oro.. Coseetic Sev.ng            -1.2  -19?.?   49.8
ICO1 (perIod averegee):              ..      .       .0
Share of ToteaI                    1988    1973    1960    197      96
Labor Force in:                     -       -
Agriculture                      658.2   79.7   72.4
Industry                         8.0      4.7     8.4
Service.                          6.0    13.8   21.2
Total                           100.0   100.0  100.0  100.0    100;



36                                                            Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
Com". AIICM  Row= - lSilac tt ICATT
Velb. Index                           Volvo at Currernt Pricwa  (SilIlo.w fi)
E. Narchandia. Eports             19o    t1"4   1o6    te6a   1w          son    1910   19164   196    1966    I"?7  1966
X.ENI.01MONS                     100.0   99.0  104.0  tO1.9  121.t)  106.0          46      8S      84      87    49.8   86.7
X.0EV.COFFE                      100.0  102.0  14S.0        .6   67.6   118.5       S8      24      41      81   20.6   25.1
X.tJI                            100.0   70.9   67.4   65.9   86.8   a0.5           84      21      2D      25    19.9      16
X.OAtDR.CO-,tON                  100.0  111.1   118.8  114.4   74.4   54.4    t1            21       iS     iS       9     7.9
N.nifectoraa                        ..      ..      ..      ..      ..      ..      ..      ..      ..       .
Residual                         10       62.6 o6.7   56.7   66.4   42.2            17      17      22      26    29.9   29.7
Totel Eaporta FOb                10.0  l02.0   69.8   75.8   75.4   70.6           1       116    1as      13a   12      1.62.4
F. I4rchandico Importe
Food                             100.0   117.7  145.9   I.1   18.9   117.6          11      20      22      26    27.6   25.4
Fuel and anarw                   100.0  119.1  147.9  57S.2  245.4  869.5           28      17      23      80    18.J   17.0
Oth. Commeas  goods              100.0  119.1  123.6   112.1  116.2   96.2    1ts           6O      St      SS   68.4   57.5
other interned Good              100.0  104.2  124.0   112.8  116.4   96.6          81      42      46   U I   56.5   60.5
Capital goods                    100.0  109.9  124.4  112.4   116.6  9e.9           16      73      SO      69    96.8      6s
Total Imorts CIt                 100.0  142.9  171.5   172.6  162.4  141.0    196          1t      222    2SS  2.1    266
0. Unra of Trad                   1960    1964    19W     1966    1o?7   196
Narch. Exports Prie index        100.0   91.8   96.4  11.6   110.1  11.7
Norch. Imorta Price Index        100.0    6.0  466.1   74.0   64.0   09.7
Notrh. Tar_. of Trade            100.0  140.5  144.2  t12.0  181.0  180.2
Ai ililns (at cutrant Prices):
H. hil nc  of Payanet            19i6O    1964    la66   l96    1967    19i6
Exports of Good A WFS              201     149     175    16      195     195
N.rchendiee (FPO)                147     114    181    129       127    Si
Non-Factor Services               64      36      4t      66      66      62
Imports of oode a WS               827    226    276       342     352    327
Nerchandie- (FM0)                16S     140    I16      200     196     17S
Non-Factor Saraicee              142      es     10e     141    184      149
Roeeurce Balance                  -126     -77     -96    -157    -157   -.41
Not Fwcto. income                    a     -10      -7     -12    -19      -21
(Onteret ar S)                     0       6       7       9       6       7
Nat Current Tranefere (pr.i.)      -17    -11      -12    -t1      -24     -27
(sorkare r*aittancea)             ..      ..      ..      ..      ..       2
Curr A/C Bel befor  Off. Tranaf  -141      -96    -117   -18i    -200   -161
Net Official Transfera            97     6a       69    102    126       1SO
Curr A/C 8a1 aftar Off. Tronef     -48     -33    -4       -86     -76    -21
Laons-Tar, Cpital inflow            47      sO      aa      94      es      4a
Direct tnv_etaot                   a       6       2       7       9       0
Not LT   ne  (O   date)           so      5       43      72      64      79
Other LT Infw (MNat)              I       17      10      is     -4    -87
Total Other Ite. (not)               7      4      -27      -4      -2     -4
Not Short Term Capital            19    -16    -19       -11      -2    -26
Capital Flow -N.iE.I.              0 0         0           0       0       0
Error, and 0.la.l8e              -12       7      4        7       a     -1T
Chanos   In Not R.rv a             -11      -7      20     -4      -4       -t
Not Credit fre thDtF              4       -S       5              12       5
Other Reurve" Chongea             -7      -4       S      -4    -20      -11
A* Shar, of MBP:
Reasurc  balance               -15.9  -12.1  -18.9  -16.4  -14.6  -11.9
Intarat Psaieta                  0.1     0.9    0.9      1.0    0.6      0.6
Currant Account Balance        -17.6  -18.4  -16.7  -19.7  -18.6  -16.2
Nemerandum Itea:
Rerves  ccsl. Gold (all. US$)      ti       eS      so      a       97    tO1
Rpearv,a. Ir. Cold (ail. USII)      o2      go      aa      70     10S     1l
Official X-te  (Ltitt5)         211.2S  486.96  449.26  646.81 800.54  297.66
Index Real Eff. X-R tbe  1960   100.00  90.61   96.06   99.04  69.16   96.60
CDP ( illiens of currant USI)      7M7     63      704     as6   107      1t119



37
Annex 1
CERM& AMCM 11113MIC - GrOMOKC VVICATORS                                     Page  3  of  3
- ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ClTA -                  RE-  -  ---------------------
Shareo  CDP M)                                         Oroh Rate
1. eudget (Specify 1ew01)       1960   1984   1965   1986   197   l988                     199044   196    19?7  196a
Current Receipt                   ..   14.2   13.2   12.1   11.S   12.2                        ..    -8.   -4.0    6.6
Current Expenditure               ..   13.3   12.1   12.2   13.1   13.1                        ..    5.0    8.2    3.1
Current 8udget Balance            ..    0.9    1.1    0.0   -1.3   -0.9                        ..
Capital Reeipta                   ..      ..      ..    0.8    1.8    2.0                      ..      ..  16.7  102.1
Capital Expenditures              ..    9.9   13.8   12.7   11.2    9.0                        ..   -1.9  -13.8  -17.1
Adjuatments                       ..      ..      ..     ..      ..      ..                    ..
Overall Deficit                   ..   -9.0  -13.1  -13.6  -14.4  -13.0                        ..    0.4    3.8   6.7
Official Capital  reant.          ..    4.2    4.0    3.8    4.0    4.7                        ..    0.8    3.1   19.8
External Borroing (not)           ..    4.?    7.8    7.3    8.9    8.8                        ..   -2.6   19.1   -1.4
Ooatic Nan-Sank Financing         ..    0.8   -0.1    0.1    0.0    0.2                        ..  16.7  -S0.0  400.0
aotic Bank Financing              ..   -0.3    0.       1.2    0.2   -0.4                       .   30.0  -87.2  -340.0
Not Di bureemente (U  ai II lone)      Oebt Outstanding S Dielbreed (UN8 eill en)
J. External Capital Flows. Debt
and Debt Burden Ratio*       1980   1984   1988   1986   19?7  l98    1980   1984   1988   19"    1987   196
Public A Publiely Quea. LT        30      26     48      72      84     79    147    218    291    8e2   83         S60
Official Creditors              28      29     44       2       4     79             187    262    se8    810    835
Multilateral                  14      21      24     43      44       1     8       92    126    1S2    28s    291
of which IIRD                0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0
of which IDA                 10     12      11      19     28      39     29      49      6s     66    12       160
i Ilatoeal                    11       8      19     29      40      28     38      98    13       62 257    244
Private Creditor.                8      -1     -1       0      -1      0      89      81     29      2e      29     24
Suppliers                      8      -1      -1      1      -1      1      84      26     27      27      26     go
Financial arkoet               0       0      0      -1       0      0       a      2       2       2       2      1
Private tNn-uranteed               0       0      0       a       0      0       0      0       0       0      0       0
Tota I LT                         30      26     43      72      84     79    147    218    291    392   83         860
DIF Credit                         9      -3      0      -2      3       1      34     43      48      82     64      61
Net Short-Term Capit l            19    -16    -19    -11        -2     27      26      14     19      2      a 1     as
Total inc. IPFANotST S                     9     23      89      6s    107    205    275    m         472  s11    on
eank and IDA Ratio.             1960   1964   198s   1986   1967   1968
Share of Total Long-Te r W                                                         NoteX:
1. IE   a S of Total            0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
2. IDA * I of Total            19.68  22.82  21.85  22.01  23.85  26.68            Data on Economic Indietwo tables
3. 18R*M- as 5 of Total        19.65  22.82  21.55  22.01  23.35  26.6              hould follow the definitions nd
the eone pt. of the Standard Tblee and
Share of LT Oebt Service                                                           Standard Attachmnte. Tho indlcatore
1. IERD as S of Total           0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00             hould include data through the met
2. IDA so S of Total           21.43   3.88    8.17   S.19   8.71  10.92           recently completed calendar year (or
3. 1SDRMA a 11 of Total        21.48   3.88    8.17   8.19   8.71  10.92           fiecal year In the awe of fiweal year
countrie). Staff ectimtee my be med
DOD-to-Export. Ratio.                                                              if final or preliainary aetual are not
yet availablo. Tbe uee of eatimte  and
1. Lng-Tere Debt/Export.       71.38  148.49  187.78 208.60 272.73 278.88          proliminary flure -hobuld be indicated
2. ZW Credit/Export.           16.85  28.37  26.02  27.59  32.12  29.95            by:
3. Short-Term Debt/Export.     12.03   9.18  10.00  1S.44  1.43  18.61
4. LT,IP4ST OW0Export.         99.91  1.01  193.62 214.86 820.84 321.98            * a *etimatd data
p  preliminary date
OD0-to-00P Ratio.
1. Long-Term Debt/CQP          18.39  34.18  41.35  40.99  SO.OS  80.01
2. IF Cred;t/QD°                4.27   6.76   6.82   5.42   8.90   5.46
S. Short-Torm Debt/DP           8.10   2.18   2.64   3.08   2.83   3.41
4. LTS IF. ST OQ0/0P           25.78  43.12  8O.81  49.44  t8.79  88.eo
Oebt Service /Exports
1. Public A Burantaed LT        0.66    9.26   6.29   8.20  8.5   8.81
2. Private lon-guranteed LT     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
S. Total Lgon-Tere Debt Sorvice  0.66   9.26   6.29   6.20   6,65   8.81
4. SW RepurchaeServ. Chae.   3.16   6.32   7.82   6.02   4.20   6.16
8. Intereet only on ST Debt     1.02   0.72   0.6s   0.60   0.91   0.68
6. Total (LT.IW8T Int.)         4.87   16.62  14.26   18.07  13.91  12.80



CEMAL AFRIC04 REfULIC
IrWLD   ATI0 MATRIX OF SAL It
#^0 TRNOf COrTIINALM
SiEC    TRiWE cSorrlmALIT'                                                                         STATUS OF COIt1OK
1.  Prparation Nd  adoption of a three-year rolling publc Inv*et_mt  roram for               1  Completed in Hy 19C9. The ministry of Plan has prepared   second verson of
the per od 196O                                                                                the  publi;  invetant program for the period 1969-1 which the Aeocicetlo  foun
acc"ptable.
2.  Adeption of an actioe  plan to reform the legal and institutional framwrk for              9. Cowleted.  In October 1966. en international conltant prepred,  _po
the porapubtict mector                                                                         e t of th  Governmnt and                    analysis of thb  Cent_l Afilen
parrpubl;c actor, a set of puiding principleo for the reform of the ;intltutional
*rd legal Framewor;b Follocing that, and after Coneultation With IDA, 1n .ihe
19, the  overnment forsulted an *cton plan to  imml~t the receemendablon  of
theetuy o  anmaprimnta  hels hroghthe sedium of the contrat-eln of
CA  which ha. been approved mid ;Deer |1969.  d OtheM  of the oew  wo
utilities wh;ch will b- finalized in th    r future. Thc Governeet would in a
eomced phbe  genoralt    the roform if thb  eaer iMet& arm muceesful. Thic
condition is therefor- futwit lied mince a centeat-plan for  bCA. eatiofectory to
D. hae bee  approved.
S.  Preparation of permetatel p a        in/lluudetion report for 1966 and on                 3. Completed. A privatization report acceptebl- to   IDe prepared in Juary
mtlef      y prore    in the rehabilitation of the major utiliti;e.   SME  OCPT.              1969. TheI iquidation report was trnemi ttd to the bnlt by the Owernmnt In
NWBCNERrA.                                                                                HeeI ber 1969.  The thee rehabIlitation plans. after delays ln identifying
pproriate consultants, are ne complete. The rehabilitation plan for th.
telecommunicatione part of OCT hra ben compIeted and eperoved. The cnul9enteo
r t on ENCA has rcently ben  cePleted including a draft  0ontraet1PlanO an
whchIA cemmented. The  oenet, hem eperoved thio cotret-len,  The SME
rabio iltetion report has been preared and the government I currently  repprinfg
the draft "Contrat-.PIan"
4.  Settlement of remaining arrears of the State to perapubl ic ente rpie-  (CFAF             4. Comletd. This figure referred to the  sitution at end-Decebcr. 1969, the
1.69 billion) and pe      tion of a plan of action to mettil creoa  debte betwen               mt recent date on crome-debte  hen the SAL wes negoiated.  Since negotiationse
thre  major utbi ie    n 1909.                                                               the Gaouvrnent has settled some CFAF 1.  billion or them  appeers. Thi;
mettlement. pltm the non-payment of tacee by certain Pli, ham led to the 
aovernmnt being in a net creditor position with respect to the fE *ctor.  The
calender for the settlemnt of crome-date bheteen the maor util;itie o is being
completed in the contest of the rehabiltetivn plene (me condition 3). Am a
remult as con coneider th;c condition fulfilled.
S.  Implentation of the civil  srvice reform in aceordance with the  ged                       .S  Almot completed.  The  tetffing plane of all sinitriec macept theme of publie
echbdule. including achievement of the wae bill target for 1988 end inclus;on of              health and transport and public morks have been adopted.  Furtheroere, tho
the well bi l l target for 1969 in tho 1999 Loi do Finance,                                   otaffing plans for C._rc*. Public Adminisrateion. Rural tevelopeent Education.
Finance and Plan have bean esecuted. It was agreed with the Aesocietion that the
etaffing plans for the Ministries of Tranepot end Public Works, for  hich planned
eteffing levels are acceptable, will be Implemented in the freecert of the
recently appraised Transport Sector Projeot. Th.e stafing plan for health io to
be impleomented in the context of en IDA-supporte Health Sector Project. scheduled
for Tppreisel  n late FY90. There has ben subetantial programe mince some eo
c;vi mervants have bean redeployed and some 170 civil departed at end  wever er
1909. However. both deaerture proorami started behind schedule. As a result af
them  depye. end the slow proorme in thc  impmntation of tho reform of the
feelly allowence system end the special benefits end melary  upplemnmt myatm.
the wage-bill trgete for 1988 and 1969 could not be set. "Iover. the Goveonment
has since teken action to stop the payment of unjustified beheflte. and mdify
fami ly aI loaencem to ensure ennusl mevinge at CFA ? 70 sill  ion. The 1990 ware
bill will therefor* be reduced by ft to reach CfA?F 2.5 million. It shWod b*
noted that the Covernmnt wId need the reorcee of the  Second Trancho to be
able to complete the payment of the indemnities of *1  deprtins civil ervants.
O0
00
Fh 
tl t4



SECOND TRANCHE CONDITIONALITY                                                                        STATUS OF COhOITION
S. Adoption of agreed budgetary roevnue enhancing masures in the Loi do Finances                6. Almost completed. The mseuro- rofer to three main areas-  improving custos
for 1989 and implementation of emergency and temporary revenuo raising measures in              adminatrat.on. reforming the personal income tex, and reducing tax arreare.  Tho
the case that 1988 revenue targets are not achieved.                                            Government has also taken strong measures to recover tax arrears through seizures.
and payroll deductions, and is putting in place a system to reduce tax arrears
from civil servants. In addition, the Government has made substantial progrees
toward completing the installation of a new tnx-payer rogistry based on the NUMICA
system. With regard to customs. the Government has install.. the cuotoms
information system (SYDONIA) which should become fully operational with lit°'s
technical sesiatance. The custom antenna at Douala has been installed but is not
operational yet. There is a bette control of the 'entrepoto fictife' as
evidenced by th' increase in Custom. is-ues for 1989. In addition to completing
the above meases. on overviwe  (a systsm analysis) of the sdministrative and
mnagement systeme of custom. which would identify the improvements required in
administrative procedures, staffing, training and oquipment needs, will be carried
out by the IFt T.A. mission in January. The following measures need to be
followed: better control of diplomatic privileges end some reinforcement of
logistical support for customs.
7. Achieve substantial progres  in the preparation of a flexible coffee producer                7. Completed.  The Government hao carried out the audit and a study on the coffee
pricing system and a floor pric  for the 19B9/90 coffe  sason and eimination of                 pricing eyetem recomendations. The Government has decided to separate the
the present *ystm of an offical mrketing margin; completion of the financial                    Cmistab marketin9 and nrgulation and control activities.  The two public entities
end mnagement audit of CAISTAB and adoption of program to reatructure CAISTAB.                  should be  established by May 1991, and be opsrational by October 1991 at the
latest. The Govornment also agreed that the marketing agency will be privatixed
when the economic condition. permit.  with respoet to th  reform of tho coffee
pricing system, the Government has acexpted to institute a flexible pricing
*yster   In fct, the Government has just reduced the coffee producer price from
CFAF 190/kg to CFAF 110/kg making it thus oeeior to propose the introduction of a
mechani  tht would allow producer prices to rise abovo a floor price guaranteed
by tho Government   Th B nk has received from the Government document4 mpecifying
the main elements of the new system end en action plan for its implementation.
This second tranche roloeas condition is therefore fulfilled.
8.  Adoption of a etretogy for the management and consrvation of forestry                       8.  Completed.  The condition has been fulfilled with the formulation of a
resources.                                                                                      soctoral statoment of development policy which the Government has prepared in the
context of the Natural Reeource Management Project. 
0 
orX
Mxi



09-Feb-90
Table 4. Contral African eblic
- Ba   Cas Sconr Io -
BaIonce of Pe tno
(el Ii on USJ)
actul              et.                    projections
196    1i97        low    IWo      1"00    In1      1902    190      1994
mrchasl  Expert  (let)         129.6   129.0   18.7    14J.1   150.5   168.6   161.7   105.2   210.6
Mercadlt  Itort (cI)           -2".7  -259.1  -287.2  -280.6  -268.6  -200.7  -802.4  -810.0  -526.4
Trad  salasc                   -124.2  -180.2  -100.5   -90.5  -118.0  -119.0  -120.7  -114.7  -116.6
N.efotor Sorvicea (credt)        0.0    67.0    02.2    5.7          ".9    72.7    10.2    61.4    02.6
NO.eFator Service  (dut)        40.0    -98.0   -92.9   -9C.9  -107.1  -115.8  -122.9  -126.0  -182.6
Ree DOI                        -157.6  -115.4  -184.1  -180.7  -161.2  -162.4  -168 .4  -165.8  -166.6
Factcr Service  (net)           -12.8   -10.2   -22.8   -24.2   -21.0   -25.7   -28.9   -27.2   -28.0
Factor Service (eredilt)        2.8      2.J      8.0      2.9      9.6      8.6      8.0     4.1      4.2
Factor Service  (dit)         -16.1   -21.0   -25.*   -27.1   -24.6   -29.5   -27.6   -81.8   -82.1
c/v Interest LU            -9.7   -18.4   -16.5   -20.2   -10.6   -28.8   -21.5   -24.1   -26.1
lW LW Charge.          -1.7    -2.1    -1.8    -1.4    -0.6    -0.4    -0.4            0.0      0.0
Priw. *aect lnt..divi    45.4   4.64    -9.0    -4.0    .4.1    40.2         6.4.8    -7.2    -7.0
Qeodt and Sevice Balanc       -150.1  -174.0  -156.4  -154.9  -172.2  -100.1  -167.8  -100.6  -108.6
Carreet Transefre (net)          64.6   101.1   116.6   126.?   118.9   108.9   110.1   182.8   147.2
Private (let)                 -18.0   -28.7   -27.6   -24.0   -26.5   -26.1   -24.7   -28.6   -28.0
Public (net)                   97.5    124.8   140.4   150.0   139.4   120.0   148.6   160.1   170.2
*/v PrP                       85.1    84.5    52.        86.2    49.8    89.0    4S.2    60.2    69.9
Current AcceUnt Balace         -45.5   -78.5   -87.7   -20.8    -68.8   -84.1   -O.2   -54.2   -40.4
Capital Aceoust Balance          07.4    68.0    19.1    82.4    44.0    70.4          8.6    60.9    52.9
Public A Guor. Capitol (net)     70.9   107.8    42.8    50.5        47.4    61.0    70.4    59.9    61.1
o/v eSIaeerD       6 M.9) 67.    129.0    71.8            M.?    60.9   111.7    00.0    99.0    62.0
elW Fet Olaburla            6.6    85.8      8.4    89.8    81.6        4.8    29.4    21.1    19.4
e/v I.  nt. Mature.        61.1    04.6    84.9    47.4    49.8    08.4    69.6    08.7    68.4
Am.rt)aatlon              -16.9   -22.0   -29.0   -27.2   -88 .6   -80.7   -26.7   -29.9   -81.7
Gap (met)                         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
e/y DOieur ereta                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Amortlation                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Other LT Intlowr (net) (PrIv.)    4.1    -7.0   -81.0    -5.0    -8.4    -2.6    -1.6           0.0      1.6
Otber Capital (net) * EAO        -7.6   -82.8       6.4   -22.1       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Overall Balance                   1.9    -5.4   -10.6        8.1   -14.8    -6.7       0.5      6.7      O.5
Financing:                       -1.6      6.4    16.6    -8.2   -23.2        6.7    -0.6    -5.6    -0.6
Chanoge In Not Roerv.e         -7.4   -17.5    -0.9    -4.6    -4.0          5.7    -0.6    -5.6    -6.0
*/e Not Credit IMF           -0.2      6.2      5.2    -6.0    -0.1    -8.8    -1.6    -1.1    -4.1
Other Resorve Chang"     -7.2   -23.7   -12.1        0.4    -4.6       9.0      1.1    -4.7    -2.6
Debt Relie                     6.8      6.2    20.1       6.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Arr"e                          -8.a    14.7       6.4    -4.8   -18.8       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0                      f
Financing Cap 1/                0.0    -0.0       0.0    -0.0   -37.6       0.0    -0.0    -0.0    -0.0
o M



42
Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
i I o tSoititgl.-oti
21 16 ag ,,;0  lio8
i tt* tXi^     0   
.s 2XT i.4'2.4U..
ii E |              -     
s o t0@O@  2
oRuAWX |
i; { 2 !,~~~~~q
,I,i ]wwilJlt  It



TabS. 3.3. Central African 6eeulia
Estorami Financingp: Ratwi"e..t. td Source.
(in oII;l* of Use)
196       1967             1868              1939           19       101    am2    199         184
___, --------           ....    __. ....._. ..    _ _.___ ------- . . _ __ -- . . __.---._-----..--___.------_____----------_______-
Prap.   AC.      Pr.   Act.    Peo.   Eat.           Prog.            Projectiona
Eater"a$ Pineoclag Reeargeente
Current Account. *werudia  _a
offlcial Trr_fte                              -163.1  -17.0  -163.2  -219 5   -184.1  -1U8.1  -178.8  -187.7  -213.2  -211.9  -210.3  -216.6
#rAbi aetid                                      -10.9   -1.9   -12.6   -26.?   -26.0   -31.3   -27.2   -3.0   -30.1   -26.7   -"8.8   -31.7
Cl_q in Arrears (ecr"e  -)                        4.3      4.3     14.7   -10.4      5.4      0.0    -4.6   -18.6       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Cheap. In Reserve. (ncre.  -)                     -7.2  -47.9   -23.7    -3.6   -12.1    -3.6          0.4    -4.5      9.0      1.1    -4.7    -2.5
:W lI_rd.et_ (degreae. -)                         4.9     -.2    4.0        4I.8    -7.a   -1.2   -11.3   -4.0   -4.           -1.6    -1.1    -4.0
Tabeo FPmnclag Saqir..nt                     -190.0  -248.3  -282.7  -08.   -127.0  -235.4  -2z2.6  -262.4  -238.1  -241.1  -248.0  -264.7
Didbur.euant:  iEtia g Cee.lt.e.                 1W7.5    M.*    24.5   *51.2   207.0   222.5   216.5   16.9    qg.o    21.0    10.8              4.0
- - -- - ---.--
Orant.                                          97.5    96.1    1.6   12.6   146.4   124.9   130.6   1)9.4            0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Lee.                                            W1.    117.9   129.9   118.0    71.3    64.1    36.7    44.9    25.4    22.6    10.3            3.2
ilIatara Credit.r.                             6.3     0.0    86.$       0.0    18.1      0.0    38.3      4.9      3.8     3.0      1.5      0.1
IbIt111toral Crdit,                            3.6     0.0    3.7        0.0    52.6      0.0    52.4    40.0    20.1    19.3        9.3      3.1
of ehicbt MA                                19.2     0.0    27.6       0.0    es.1      0.0    22.2    35.4    13.6    12.0        *.7      2.1
of which: Ad)usoot Lendidg                 7.5 09.0    50.0          6.5    n.6    8.9    11.3    21.9          0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Private Credit.,                               1.0     0.0      2.6      0.0     0.7      0.0      0.5     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
DV PNrdaee                                       8.7     6.2      1.8     0.0      0.0      0.0     6.2      3.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
So~                                              0.0     7.7      7.9    12.4    12.S       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Ot0r Capital o.*.;  me                         -4.5       7.7   -39.4     0.0   -25.2       3.6   -W.1    -3.4    -2.6    -1.8         0.0      1.8                              W
0iebureeweate: Expected Om CmIemnt.                0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0    SS.0   211.8   214.0   229.4   244.3
Create                                           0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   129.0   143.8   I6. 1    170.2
La*"                                             0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      6.0   312.3    70.2    73.8    74.1
il.otera  Credit.r                             0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0    12.)    17.2    24.3    19.6    11.6
alStilatwel Credit.  1/                        0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    43.7    61.1    45.9   5a.7    82.8
of thick: mA                                 0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    36.6    46.3    26.1    47.e    36.5
of ehich: Adjuetant Lending               0O.      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0    29.    39.3   2.4    15.3    13.9
Pri,vte Credito.                               0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
1w Purcheee                                     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
SAP/RWF                                          0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Tot*l Identified Financing                       107.5   225.3    24.5   261.2   207.0   212.5   216.5   244.9   234.1   235.0   240.2   249.3
Fancig GaP (deficit -)                          -.6    -7.6   -4.2   -27.3   -20. 1   -22.9   -4.0   -17.5    -4.0    -6.0    -S.6    -S.5
Debt Ruechedul lag                               6.3     7.6      0.2     0.0    20.1       0.0      6.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
1/ Eaclud. dt relief ad SPA.
Eachenge Rae  (8/")                              1.173    1.241    1.293    1.357    1.344    1.357    2.282   1.311   1.39    1.346   1.346    1.346
Eachenag Rate (CFAF/S)                            346      310      301     26D      290     230      319      294     239      234     204      204
So.rce: Official Co..enant Stat;stscs. IMF and Sank Staff eatiaatea.
0 M



45
Annex 4
Page 1 of 6
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC              Translation
SECTOR POLICY STATEMENT
Forestrv and Wildlife Sector
The CAR's natural resources in general and its tropical forests in
particular constitute a major source of income.
The tropical rain forest of the southwest, is considered one of the
richest in Africa, with a high density of valuable redwood species, (Sapelli
and Sipo). It is also of considerable importance to both the local population
(fuelwood, fcod gathering, hunting, medicinal products) and to the country's
social and e onomic development (the timber industry is a major source of
jobs, fore ,n exchange and government revenue).
Located at the cross-point between of East and West African eco-
systems, the CAR still possesses some of the continent's most abundant and
diversified wildlife. The large animals native to the savanna (giraffe,
elephant, cheetah, etc.) are found in the Central and Northern regions, while
the forests in the South shelter numerous birds, reptiles, and mammals of many
varied species, including some rare ones.
GOVERNMENT OBJECTIVES IN THE SECTOR
To increase the contribution of the forestry and wildlife sector to
economic development and to conserve the country's forestry resources, the
Government has included in its 1986-90 Plan three long-term objectives,
namely:
- to preserve the ecological balance of the forest and ensure its
long-term preservation through appropriate management and development actions;
- to take all steps necessary for a more rational use of forest
resources; and
- to protect wildlife, mainly in the Savanna, in order to preserve
it for future generations.
To meet these objectives Government intends to obtain the resources,
equipment and skilled personnel needed for a better management of natural
ecosystems and rational development of forest industries.
With its Five-Year Plan objectives in mind, the Government is seeking
support from donors in order to increase the country's capacity to manage the
sector. Several local- or regional-scale projects are under way. They
include: a research project, backed by Fonds d'aide et de cooperation; a
project to improve management and development of the Northern savanna zones,
financed by Fonds europeen de developpement; and a project to protect natural
resources in the dense forest zone, financed by USAID and implemented by the
World Wildlife Fund.



46
Annex 4
Page 2 of 6
To coordinate all these actions and incorporated them into a
comprehensive sector development strategy, the Government has requested FAO
assistance in drawing up a Tropical Forest Action Plan that sets out an
overall strategy for the natural resources sector and a related investment
program. The ultimate aim is to identify concrete measures to: promote
sustained management of forest eco-systems; improve farming practices that
will slow down the spread of shifting cultivation; develop fuelwood resources;
and create social and economic conditions favorable to tourism, tree crops and
fish-farming.
The Government has also requested IDA financial assistance for a
project to provide the Forest Ministry -- Ministere des Eaux, Forets, Chasse,
P@che et Tourisme (MEFCPT) -- with the physical and personnel resources
necessary for improved forest and wildlife management and conservation. Since
it will strengthen the Ministry at all levels, including its capacity at
headquarters to formulate policies, draft appropriate legislation, and attend
to the programming, coordination, and monitoring of activities in the field,
this project must be regarded as an important prerequisite to the design and
implementation of the future Tropical Forest Action Plan.
The IDA-financed project will also include a series of concrete
measures to be introduced in the field without delay in response to such
urgent concerns as: protection of wildlife, control of logging activities,
and improvement of forest-zone farming systems. These actions, which may
eventually be fine-tuned or redirected once the TFAP is finalized, will
consist in:
-    providing the Ministry with the resources needed for effective
management and protection of forest and wildlife resources
throughout the country;
-    carrying out a forest inventory in order to improve knowledge of
the production potential of tropical forest eco-systems and
thereby pave the way for a more rational management;
-    helping develop improved agro-forestry systems, on the basis of
pilot schemes in forest areas, in order to lessen the pressure
of agriculture on tree resources;
-    supporting current efforts -- assisted by the World Wildlife
Fund and USAID -- to develop and protect a dense forest reserve
in the Dzanga-Sangha zone.
In addition to the above actions, the Government intends to take a
number of steps that are essential prerequisites for sound management of the
sector, namely: (i) adoption of a new Forestry Code; (ii) reorganization of
the Ministry; (iii) closing down certain agencies currently under the
Ministry's supervision; and (iv) creation of a Forestry Fund.



47
Annex 4
Page 3 of 6
Adoption of new Forestry Code
The new Forestry Code to be adopted by end February 1990 will improve
the present Code in several ways, including:
- the introduction of permits for the utilization of natural forest
resources for commercial fuelwood production;
- recognition of the rights over corresponding forest resources of
individuals andlor collectivities that carry out afforestation;
- stricter conditions applied to permits for industrial logging and
improved monitoring of timber companies by MEFCPT, aiming at involving these
companies in the management and protection of forest resources.
In addition, the new Code will incorporate the numerous changes
introduced in recent years, especially those included in the Government's
first and second Structural Adjustment Programs. Supplementary project
measures -- for instance, forest mapping, a forest inventory, and a land use
plan in forest and agro-forestry areas -- will make it possible subsequently
to define how best to implement the new measures included in the new Code,
besides facilitating the identification of specific action programs.
Reorganization of MEFC?T and Staffinn Plan
The Government intends to restructure the MEFCPT (including field
offices, and agencies under its supervision). A study has been carried out
that will lead to adoption and implementation of a new organization chart and
staffing plan before end calendar year 1990. Implementation of the
reorganization will follow immediately.
The new structure will take into account the urgent need to
strengthen and decentralize the Ministry's responsibilities in the management
of forest eco-systems and also the need to limit staff numbers in the face of
the civil service reform.
The Ministry's constrained staff resources makes it imperative:
-    that headquarter responsibilities be consolidated in a manner
that simplifies bureaucratic procedures and allows greater
organizational efficiency;
-    that responsibilities for management, coordination and promotion
be simultaneously delegated to field staff so as to increase
efficiency of protection and development activities.
The new structure of the Ministry will therefore involve:
-    A substantial reduction in headquarter staff.  This reduction
will be offset by increasing the number of field
staff and strengthening their development role. This
strengthening of the Ministry's field network will involve



48
An4Aex 4
Page 4 of 6
recruiting and training additional game and forest rangers, who
will be selected for their qualifications and skills in both
protection and development work. These new posts will be filled
partly by transferring present Ministry staff and partly by
outside recruiting. The total number of employees will be as
prescribed in the new staffing plan. Ministry field staff will
go through a training course to prepare them for their new
duties and responsibilities.
-    Simplification of the Ministry's organization chart, in
particular by reducing the number of headquarter departments and
divisions. This will be achieved by consolidating the
activities of the Ministry into key functions: design and
monitoring of forest activities and development of processing
industries (Forests Department), wildlife and fishery resources
management (Wildlife Department), and tourism development
(Tourism Department).
Closing down of agencies under Ministry supervision (ONF, CNPAF and
O-CATOUR)
At the present time, development activity in the sector (for
instance, afforestation and forest and park management), as opposed to
conservation (control of logging and hunting), is delegated to agencies under
the Ministry's supervision -- Office national des forAts (ONF) and Centre
national pour la protection et l'amenagement de la faune (CNPAF). Likewise,
tourism development (promotion, infrastructure development) is handled by
Office centrafricain du tourisme (OCATOUR).
These agencies collect part of the taxes levied on logging, hunting
and tourism. In addition to being financially independent from the Ministry,
they benefit from a large degree of autonomy in management. This autonomy was
intended to avoid bureaucratic rigidities and increase operating efficiency.
In practice, despite their access to apparently significant resources
at certain periods, these agencies can be credited with few achievements in
sector development. Uneven quality of management, excessive personnel costs,
oversized headquarters relative to field offices, occasional drawings by the
Treasury on the agencies resources, and a decline in revenue following recent
problems in the sector, combined to undermine their performance and lead them
into difficulties.
In the circumstances, and since the Government's primary objective is
to curb unnecessary public expenditure, the Authorities propose to integrate
these agencies into the Ministry within two years i.e by end 1992, although
some autonomy will remain where the funding of activities for the protection
and development of natural resources is concerned. Integration will allow
maximum reduction of headquarter size avoid duplication of personnel in the
field, and use comparatively limited personnel resources to best advantage.
Accordingly, ONF, CNPAF and OCATOUR are to be abolished. At the same time,
the Ministry staffing plan will be adjusted to ensure that adequate



49                                 Annex 4
Page 5 of 6
headquarter staff numbers are assigned to conceptual work in forestry,
wildlife and tourism development.
In cases where the implementation of major development programs is
beyond the capacity of the Ministry's regional offices, it will be delegated
to project units set up for the duration of the investment operations. Once
their work is completed, these units will be disbanded, with all remaining
ongoing activities (for example, woodlot maintenance and park management)
being taken over by ministerial field staff.
Creation of a Forestry Fund
Elimination of the three agencies requires that the tax collection
system which is currently split between them, be redesigned; at the same time,
a new mechanism for funding the activities they now handle must be introduced.
Hence the plan to create a Forestry Fund within two years.
The following will be paid into this Fund: (i) the various taxes
collected until now by the three agencies; and (ii) external resources
earmarked for funding sector activities enumerated in the following paragraph.
At the moment (1988), the share of tax revenue collected by the three agencies
amounts to CFAF 265 million, a sum that is expected to increase as logging,
game hunting and tourism pick up again. Fund resources will be deposited to a
"Forestry Fund" account opened with a local commercial bank.
Fund monies will be used to finance: programs for the protection of
natural resources (including logging control and anti-poaching measures);
programs for reforestation and park management; and, more generally, any
activity focused on the preservation or development of forest and wildlife
resources.
All capital or recurrent expenditure needed to enable programs of the
above types to be executed will be eligible to be financed from the Fund.
At the beginning of each calendar year, the Ministry will draw up
programs of activities for the twelve months ahead, in keeping with its
revenue projections for the period. These programs will take into account
projections of Fund revenue for the year. They will be forwarded to IDA for
comment.
The Fund will be administered by a group consisting of a chief
authorizing officer, representing the Ministry of Water, Forest, Hunting and
Fishing Resources and Tourism (MEFCPT), a financial controller seconded from
the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Finance and Planning (MEFCPI), and three
clerical staff. As these individuals will be remunerated from Fund resources,
an annual budget for the operating costs of the Fund will be drawn up by
MEFCPT and approved by MEFPCI.
The chief authorizing officer and financial controller will hold
joint responsibility for the disbursement of Fund monies, and payment orders
drawn against the Fund will have to be signed by both of them. In addition to
his disbursement inspection function, the financial controller will supervise



50                                Annex 4
Page 6 of 6
tax collection activities and will propose improvements, as necessary, to
rationalize the system and increase Fund revenue.
In order to obtain assistance with the finer points involved in
drawing up the Fund's Articles of Incorporation and with the design of new,
practical mechanisms of tax collection and money management, the authorities
intend to engage the services of a financial expert for a short period. This
specialtst will work closely with the financial controller from the time he,
the controller, is seconded from the Ministry of Finance.
The Fund will be set up for a three-year period, which will be
renewable. At the end of this period, the authorities will decide whether to
renew it, in light of the capacity of the national budget to take over the
funding of the activities of the Ministry of Water, Forest, Hunting and
Fishing Resources and Tourism.



CAR
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MATRIX OF POLICY MEASURES
OBJECTIVES                                  MEASURES                                 MONITORABLE ACTIONS
1.    MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
1.1  To improve macro-economic             Board Condition: Substantial               -   The second tranche of SAL 2
management, reduce the wage bill,          progress in carrying macro-economic             has been released. (Done)
restructure public enterprises, and        adjustment program.
promote productive sector growth.
Second Tranche Conditions Same             -   Policy Framework Paper is in
place; IDA supported
adjustment program is being
implemented satisfactorily.
2.   FORESTRY CODE. TAXES AND
INCENTIVES                                                                                                             V
2.1  To improve the legislative            Board Conditions  Submission of New        -   Government written
framework for sustainable forest           Forestry Code to the National                   confirmation has been received
land use.                                 Assembly.                                        (Done).
Effectiveness Condition:  Approval         -   Text of law has been submitted
b, che National Assembly and                    to IDA.
Enactment.
Second Tranche Conditions                  -   Essential decrees needed to
Satisfactory progress in                        implement the new Code are in
implementing the new Code.                      force; in particular those
related to bush fire control,
forestry permits and forestry
tax collection.
5 x



2.2  To encourage diversified use          Before Board:  Shift basis for             -   Relevant ministerial arretes
of timber (ie. improve incentives          export taxation from volume only to             have been issued by MEFPCT.
to exploft secondary tree species          volume and value, and eliminate                 (Done)
and produce high value added timber        export taxes for logs of secondary
products).                                 species and high value export
products.
2.3  To eliminate excessive demands        Before Second Tranche: Eliminating         -    Cahier des Charges* for
of the administrat:i.on on forest          forest industries obligation to                 future permits has been
industries.                                provide forest field staff with                 revised accordingly. (Done)
transport.
2.4  To improve control over the           Board Condition:  Reaffirmation of         -   A Presidential order has been
use of wildlife resources.                 Government commitment to the                    issued instructing local
control of poaching.                            authorities to implement
strict repression measures
against poaching. (Done)
: Establishment          -   Draft legislation has been
of the Dzanga-Sangha Dense Forest               approved by Council of             N
Sanctuary and the Dzanga-Ndoki                 Ministers (Done).
National Park.
Before Second Tranche:  Assessment         -   Assessment report has been
of the efficiency of current tax                submitted to IDA.
collection procedures.
3.  INSTITUTIONAL RESTRUCTURING
3.1  To streamline MEFCPT's                Board Condition:  Adoption of              -   Related Presidential decree
organisation, increase field staff         staffing plan and MEFCPT's new                  and ministerial Arrft6s have
vis-&-vis HQ staff, and increase           organization.                                   been issued. (Done)
operating budget.
Before end 1990s Preparation of
MEFCPT's FY90 work program and             -   1991 work program and
budget.                                         financing plan has been agreed
upon.
0 0



Second Tranche Condition:  HEFCPT's      -   Key posts of the new
reorganization has been completed.            organizational structure have
been staffed with suitably
trained personnel.
3.2  To secure adequate funding for      Before Second Tranche:                    -   Legislation creating the Fund
MEPCPT's recurrent costs.                Establishment of Forestry Fund,                has been adopted.
Consolidation of tax collection;
and, Funding of Forestry Fund in         -   Suitable legal texts have been
line with MEFCPT's agreed work                adopted for tax collection.
program.
-   Financing plan for utilization
of the Forestry Fund has been
agreed upon.
3.3  To eliminate duplication            Second Tranche Condition:                 -   Presidential decrees have been
between MEFCPT and its affiliated        Elimination of ONF, CNPAF and                  issued abolishing these
agencies.                                OCATOUR and release of staff or                agencies.
their transfer to MEFCPT.
0 t
0 
0 q



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBUC
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF MEFCPT
IN I
ASSISTANT
DUETIO       Of ECTION    *I JCTIO                              OIRECTION o  IETO   P DVSO  IIIN DVSO      vso
FORESTS  wIws.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ET
I                                  S|V _    CTIONETION          DIREICN O  IOIJ  DIVISON  DIVISION    DIVISION
FS    |       TWF119"                   ~~~~~~~~~~STRATION  M OIBEL   SA,  H               |BANGORANr
AFFORES       SERVICE I     SERVICE I     SERVM    I   SERVICE I       D    ISION         DIVISION       |    IVISION|
TWNVON       WLDLFE I      VENTTRUWYF                    FEL       III
AND SOIL      CONSER-         ANDAN                       DIINNAOHMKO
CONSER-          ION       PLANNING      MNT      |   |STRAI            LY         MA1NE         PENDE  | | NOU
-SERVICE2                          2 2
FORST        SERVICE 2      WRAS-        SERVICE 2     SERVICE 2      DIVISION     DIVISION     DIVISIO     DIVISON
HfvEHTORY     VLJE          TRUACTtE    - NORMMX        PRON.SNH
AND    ~ MANAGE-          N            AND           ANDL                       ECO-        HAUTE        SASSE
MENT-     -EN
SERVICE 3                                                              DIVISION     DIVISION     DIVISION    DVSO
FOREST   LSERVICE 3     SERVICE 3   LSERVIC 3
UTIJSTINM     VIER AND       TOURISM       OOCUME-
AND WJOOD      FISER       PROMOTION        TWIONOJAAUKA
WVIiSTRES    RESOURCES                                                                                        W|0
EK/W459638              t



56
Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFFING PLAN OF MEFCPT
POSTES             POSTES
FONCTIONS                             ACTUELS             NECESSAIRES
Organes do Direction
Uinistre                                 1                   1
Charg6 de mission                                            2
Cabinet
Chef do Cabinet                       I                    1
Chauffeurs                             1                   2
Gordlen                                                    1
Planton                               2                    1
Secr6tariat particuli-r                  -                   -
Secr6tuire                             1                   1
Dactylos                               1                   2
Projets/Organisems sous Tut.
Cadres                               21                   10
Agents                                16                  10
Direction du Contentioux
Directeur                              1                   -
Chef du serv. recouvr.ment            1
Chef du service enqu8tes              -
et poursuites                          1
Dactylo                               2
Sous Total                       48                   a1
Directions Techniques/Cabinet
Dir. Etudes/Coordination
Directour                                1                   1
Dactylo                                 2                    1
Planton                                  1                   1
Serv. Etudes PI S projet
Chef do Service                     1                    1
Cadres                                                 2
Dactylos                                               2
Serv. Informatique/Stat.
Chef de Service                     I                    1
Agent Informatique                                     1
Service Archives/Doc.
Archivistes                       1                    1
Service Plannification
Chef do Service                     1
Sous Total                        8                   12
Direction Services Adml./Fin.
Directeur                                   1                    1
Daceylo                                     1                    1
Plrnton                                     1                    1
Serv. Financier/Materiel
Chef de service                         1                    1
Secret ire comptable                                         1
Dactylo                                                      1
Planton                                                      1
Agent mouv. materiel                     I                   1
Chauffeurs mecaniciens                                       2
Manoeuvre                               2                    1
Serv. Personnel/Formation
Chef do service                         2                    1
Cadres                                                       2
Agents admi.  personnel                                      2
DOactylo                                                     1



57
Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
Plsnton                                                      1
Standardiset                                                 1
Cordiens/sentinel le                                         4
Pore Entretion/nettoyage                                     6
Sous total                        9                   29
Dir. ¢e Serv. Forestiors Rgx
Dirocteur General                                                1
Adjol nts
Asis. Enregis. Contenti-ux                                       1
Assistant Gestion Materiel                                       2
Dactylo.                                                         2
Planton                                                          1
Chauffeur                                                        1
Op_ratour Radio                             1                    1
Sous total                        1                    9
Divisions Regionsles
Chef Div. Forestioro                        8                   16
Adj3ints                                   16                   32
Cordes Forestiors                         211                  440
Dactyl.o                                                        16
Sous total                      236                  604
Direction Ole Services Contraux
L-aux, For6ts, Tourismo
Directour Goneral                           1                    1
Assistnt                                                         1
Dactyto.                                    1                    2
Planton                                     1                    1
Chauffeur                                   I                    1
Service sensibiliation
Cadr                                                         1
Dessinateur                                                  1
Specl a iste audio-visuel                                    1
Sous totol                        4                    9
Direction does For8ts
Directour                              1                   1
Dactylo                                1                   1
Planton                                1                   1
Serv. Inv. Forestier
Chef de serviet                  1                    1
Cadres                                                2
Tochnicions                                           S
Dessinateurs                                          2
Serv. Protection Am. F
Chef do service                  1                    1
Cadre                                                 1
Sous total                        6                   20
Direction do Is Fauno
Di rectour                                   2                    1
Dactylos                                     S                    2
Planton                                                           1
Sorv  Conservation Fanue
Chef do service                         1                   1
Cadre                                                       1
Serv. Amenagement FaunI
Chef do servic                        1                    1
Cadre_                                                     8
Serv. Re. Haliout. Aqua
Chef de service                       2                    1
Cadre                                                      1
Sous total                                            12



58
Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
Direction du TouriTm
D rectour                                    2                    1
Dactylo                                                            1
Plenton                                                            1
Serv. Inv. Amn. Tour.
Chef de Service                          1                    1
Srv. Exploit. Touris.
Chef de Service                          1                    1
Serv. Promotion Touris.
Che  d  Service                          1                    1
Cadres                                   9                    1
Serv. Admi/Finencier
Chef de servlee                          1
sous total                        17                    7
Personnel affect projets                       13                   is
Personnel en stag
Centre do formation                            17
Ingonleur, Tech., Propose                    12s
Sous total                      1S8                    is
TOTAL                        4M6                   4"



59                                               Annex 7
N    CENTORALARJESM    XREP C "OJECT
TAXES FORESTIERES
1088      1909    199S      1991 .
Superficie ttotal    N rle (l6ow ha)                16be)  2e6U 2asU  24U r                   ddaarrrg  SL0VENIA
grumeo shottuse TX. ?jm1S,     20ca0 ?231: 4.                                                4dmr,LVN
exportati one Urums()                                28,865    38,542   44,656l  45,796.
dent esencim   upr ere                        28,1 6     18 It4    404,j3    1,
exporat ttoneo Page*q (m)                            t24,2     6,8    2           ,8 4
velours mnrcuralos (FCFA/.3): moyanne gin6r I.   16s           16,e56    16,      166    augmenttItoon
soyv. sO.. $UP*,.    22,666   h 22,68    22,686n  22,0     pr9port on bole rouges
r=t 'edmrrage
SLOV IIA       9-
Montant total taxy ftnhlllon FCFA)152.6            152.6    16.        2.8
texe absttao2 pfilS                                23        8'8    88.         41.6 
taxe do super    0 j/                ~~~~~~~If:   14a:1    97.21   a 9971
taxo exportation gi                               113.5     156.s   173.0    182.4
total gdn6ral                                     352.9     422.0    461.7    476.7
DontOF 2 m i on TFCFA)                                 61.6      6 1.6    61.6      61.6
t xe  sbuperftici 91                                          348      97 12     e90 .
taxoeabt!tage 2/                                                 . 1    5. j:   16.4
tax.; rebe6mll II?. 8/
taxe exportation J/                                 0.0        0.0      a.6      0.0
total WUF                                         132.8      169.4   178.8      177.2
TAXES FAUME !I
Montent to.tl (milion FCFA)                             9         41.6    48.7       45.9
petl grande ot moy-nne choese                     1i. 13.1    18.9
r vdvncos tour et et  ccopagnateur S1                        19 o1  4. 68
tries c atg ocoux .. .                                                   1      6 .9
total g6n4ral                                    194.2      268.9  214.1       224.8
Dont CNPAF ,ml III onFCFA)
taxe d amodlati on                                28.        25.6    11: 26.2    7.
=rmee   grond  at moyenne chase                    56    .3            .5        5.
it xe dg tourslts at *ccompagnat urn          12           : a3  a42        a
pearms chaus!Vocaux                                0.6        0.0     0.0        0.6
total CNPAF                                       73.4       77.6    eo.0       84.9
Dent OCATOU (million FCFA)
potr a  grand. et moyenne chaose                   7.5        7.9      8.3       8.7
TAXES TOURISME I/
Dent OCAT    (Illion FCFA)
taxe C do d6vol oppement touristique              46.4       48.8    51.2       53.9
TAXES GENERAL (million FCFA)                          593.6      674.7   727.0      754.3
oNt;AF                                       ,                  so         84.9
OCATOUR                                      53.9       56.6    59.5       62.5
sous-total                               260.1      293.0   314.1      324.5
tr6sor                                   333.6      381.7   412.9      429.7
Sur Is baa. du taux moyen actuol de Is tax. de eupertici-, *olt 140 FCFA/ho
IS 1Xde la ylelure?ticiale de cheque essence, ello-mime 6quivalente & 1/4 de Is velour
S;/' 10  g ovfu' meF;cW- pour loe *xportatione de grumee de valeur mercuriale
sup6rieurT 16020A/md3.
2/   Actuellement de:
3 2856 FCCFA/S pouur  ee e xport t:on  ae gr*m Ie
782 F A/mI pour ee export tions do p  cages
0 FFA/m3 pgur es *xport tIon e  contripinqu6 (t)
(devraotnt 6tre align6s our veleurs rOB - cf. AS2)
8   Bano sur leo  donn4endo  1088, avec hypoth4se pour lea annAes sulvantes d'un taux
de croiseance deo:   % per on.
a    Scse *yr les donnees de 198S, *vec hypothese pour les onn4es suivnntes d'un tnux
de cro *aence do: SX per on.
En outr, I'OCATOUR pergoit octuelle¢ent divers outreo revenue provenent de mm activit6s, do le location
de sos hotels et reatourrant, etc.



CHRONOGRAMME DES ACTIVITES
_C T) _ITtS                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   A N N IE
ACNVI  S   _   1  n   2            3                  4                 s
108 E0l EN PACE DEM IIUAS_UCWU_
110  Obecton conttole                       -   -
120  Zone pilote                                           -_ _ _ _
200  FOn     IK DE MAItML  El IQUrW
210  _qupents de tronspoit
220  Cquipernt de bureau                                         _          _             _
230   quipmemnts de sondage
240   qulip.mncr dintormatque                  Mm
250  Matbeil d'anmatlon/sonsb   n                                      -   -   m         _   _   _ _           
260  tqulpements et matalel/zone plote                                           _       _   _          _   _   _   _   _
300     IIAIU FOTIEl                                                                                                                        y)
310  Preparallon des normes de ondoge       _0.t
320  Pr6partlon du plan de sondage               _
330  Travoux de iondage                                            _
340  CompHIaton des donn6es dinventalre                       =   =
350  Photo-Interpi6tatlon et cartogrophle
351  usne en place du rsydmo
dintormotlon o r6t6rence spatlal_
352  Pr6parotlon des notmes
353  Travoux de photo-Interpr6tatlon                              _
354  Producton des cartes torestlres                                            - =
(1 200000)09
360  Prepototlon du rapport dinventaire
0 0
ACTIVITE INTERMITTENTE                                                                                                           " M
_mm~: ACTIVITE CONnNUE



CHRONOGRAMME DES ACTIVITES
ACT!VIT&S                                                              ANNIE
1                 2                 3                  4                 5
400 PCnc El AUtNAMI__
410  PrEparation du plan daffectatlon
420 Programme dlnteiWntlon en
teuutoWe 8 voconton foetl*e
421  Apput a lo geflson torete         _         _        _        _           
422  Apput a la protection des torbts                                                              _        -
423  AnImation et sensbtsatoon                                                                 -   -   -   =   -   =         
430  Progranme dlnterventlon on tenttotre
a vocation auo-forwh1re
431  Catographte ftorestle dos zones
perl-urbaon  (1:20000) D OD )
432  Controle de lexploItation
commetcoko du btols de teu                                        -   -   -         -   :         :   :    :   :
433  Adnmaton et asto n                                                                        _ _          _ _s              _ _
434  DIffusion de foyers om4llorbs                                                                                             -
435  Protection dos forbts                                                                         -
"a  PROGRAMMI Paola DE
FORHEltE 2URE
510  SElecton dune zone ptote_
520  etudes bo w ase
S30  InventaMe totestlet Uam6nog.ment
540  Conception et r6afsatlon dos Intervontlons
541  Actions ogro-torestl6tos                                               -             -Q-                       
542  DiffusIon de foVers amellores                                          - _   _   _                                                   >
_ _m.  ACTMTn  INTEQMITTENTE                                                                                                                    w ao
_   ACTMIT CONTINUE



CHRONOGRAMME DES ACTIVITES
ACTIVITiS                                                                ANNIE
1                 2                  3                  4                  5
643  Action forestlb                                                                    _
550  SuM et 6vauotlon
60   FOIMAIOM
610  Fomltton _ r_t_onger
611   tectlon des canddots
612  Foimotlon dos boutal                         _         _            _
620  Formctlon so ploce
621  Formatlon dos prospectotws
622  Formoton du peosonnel
do sondage
623  Smmros et stages                                 -                  -                  -                  -           c
624  Fotmotlon sut le tos                -             _    _        _             _                                               _ -
700   MIVI fl IVAlVAUN                                                                                                                          a
710  MJsdons de &uprwvIslon                   
720  Cootdnatlon gOnroIo                      _a _um _   _   _   _   _   _    _   _   _
m_    _     ACTMT lNTERMmMTTE NTOD
ACTIVITf CONTINUE



6s
Annex 9
cENTRam  AFRICAN REPUBLIC                               Page 1 of 4
Natural  esources Ranaqetent Project
A4nsyccount~  PrFAoJect CODpofleIt
Institut                      Forest
ion    Forest  Agro-For  Reserv   PrQl9ct  Pro ect
StreBqth  Inventor   e8trY   ProtectI Adu Blst  Pr?ar.
enifng     y       Pilot      on      ratios   Facln ty
I. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. COn. btiu. & infrautr.        113.70    12.65       0.00    U9.25      0.00      0.00
B.la%                            420.62     59.55    42.72    45.23       5.00      0.00
C. a t r er& Eq'peet              54.36     94.18    16.18    39.12       4.54      0.00
D. Nobillir                       22.10      1.80      1.66     0.00      0.00      0.00
E. Forpation                     278.04    15.27      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
F. AssistaBc  ehiu
F. Eqet echnque                 6060        0        0.00   123.84   240:.         0.
2. wclmesde Consultants           0.      804.00   252.00      0.00
3. Etu4es                         0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    58.00   210.00
4. Audit                          0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    56.00       0.00
Sub-total                        606.00   804.00   252.00   123.84   354.00   210.00
Total INMESTMENT COSTS          1494.83   987.45   312.56   327.44   363.54   210.00
tI. iECiURRENT COSTSs
A. Salaires petsonnel NEFPT    1478.09       0.00     0.00           0.00 Q.O0
B.  utressaiaires                  0.00    97.96    46.63    79.7         3.74      0.00
C:. Inde  its                     45.38     55.62     0.00      0.00      0.0       000
D. Fon i nnet v6hicules          414.63    49.04    44.49      36.27                0.00
. Entretien coust. & 4qpt      30.75    12.93      0.98    25.85       0.00      0.00
F. Fournbures et divers          116.90    24.40    11.47       7.19      4.00      0.00
Total  RECUR       CSS          2085.75   239.95   103.58   149.34    10.52         0.00
Total S     E  STS              3580.58   1227.40   416.14   476.78   374.06   210.00
Physlcal Cntintencles           36.22    17.81      3.81    16.72       0.48      0.00
Price ContingenCies            528.00    194.06    63.57    73.88    56.46        0.00
Total PR0JRT COSTS              4144.80  1439.27   483.52   567.38   431.00   210.00
Taxe*                            0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Foregn Ecange                 1704.72   983.11   341.18   333.26   346.32   210.00
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 3/1/1990 10:49



66
Annex 9
Page 2 of 4
CEaurbUM APRICAN REPUBLIC
Natural Resourne  Hanaleen Proiet
Swma2try Account DW A ect oupoffent
PbYsical es        rice
Contngencies      cont   encies
Total        %     Amount       %   Amount
I. IIVESTNT COSTS
A. Co. bitiu. & infrastr.          245.60     10.00      24.56   15.73     38.64
B. Vehlcules                       573.12      5.00      28.66   11.55     66.18
C. NatqrXe & Equipement            208.38      5.00      10.42   13.69     28.53
D. Nobi1Ar                          25.56      5.00       1.28    7.60      1.94
E. Foratuon                        293.31      0.00       0.00   16.56     48.57
1.           Teniqusee            969.84      0.00      0.00   17.76    172.29
2.           e Consultants       1056.00      0.00       0.00   16.60    175.28
3. Etu$es                         268.00      0.00       0.00    0.00      0.00
4. Audit                           56.00      0.00       0.00   17.21      9.64
Sub-total                         2349.84      0.00       0.00   15.20    357.21
Total IIVESTHENT COSTs            3695.81      1.76     64.91   14.64    541.08
IL.           COSTS
A. Salaires gersonnel HE.FCFT     1478.09      0.00       0.00   13.18    194.82
B. A es s1aires                    228.07      4.44      10.12   13.37     30.49
[. Irh"ltes                                    0.00       0.00   12.60     12.7
D. Foncunnent vebicules            5452        0.00       0.00   17.50     95.8
. Entrien const. Sqpt               70.51      0.00       0.00   17.99     12.69
F. Pourntures et dlvers            163.96      0.00       0.00   17.28     28.34
Total REKXnBEYRM  COSTZS          2589.15      0.39      10.12   14.48    374.89
Total  EL    CXX5TS               6284.96      1.19      75.04   14.57    915.97
Phscal Conta:W    ies           75.04
WI,              es              915.97      1.03       9.41
Total PloUCw  con1's              725.96       1.16      84.44   12.59    915.97
TuxeS                              0.00      0.00      0.00
Toreigne                        3918.58      1.31     51.39
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 3/1/1990 10:49



67
gElllUL AF IEPUDf5l3IC
NaturaM eslour ofs pAngMewen eoject
FCA                                      Annex 9
Sutuary Accounts by Year                     Page 3 of 4
Base Costs                            Foreign Exchange
90/91     91/92     92/93     93/94      Total         I        Alount
:|a-=           -                   33-=_ _   :s_ _-…_= = =-- = = _:
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Co  . batin. & infrastr.       66.22     86.57     46.90     45.90    245.60       36.40    89.40
B.     es557.38                         14.6~ 0~              .6     531          95.00 544
C   N. rie1 & Equipeuent         151.34     18.44     31.95      6°65    208.38       85.78   178.75
D.  Xobl1ior                      24.66      0.90      0.00      0.00     25.56       20.00     5.11
E.  Forpation                     40.96     71.88     95.21     85.26    293.31       36.40   106.76
F. IAssistance Tecnique          263.28    257.28    257.28    192.00   969.84        80.00  715.87
2. Services de Consultants     282.00    399.00    297.00     78.00   1056.00       80.00   844.80
3. Etues                      224.50     14.50     14.50     14.50    268.00       95.67   256.40
4. Audit                       17.00     17.00     11.00     11.00     56.00       80.00    44.80
Sub-total                        786.78    687.78    579.78    295.50   2349.84       81.79  1921.87
Total INVESMENT COSTS           1627.35    880.20    754.39    433.87   3695.81       77.02  2846.36
II. kECURENT COSTS
G.  Salaires perSOnel NEFCPT   312.82    350.62    388.42    426.22   1478.09          0.00     0.00
1. Au res s4laires                 4.68     64.57     68.51     50.30    228.07        0.00     0.00
I   In eenit s                    20.62     29.89     29.89     20.62    101.00        0.00     0.00
J:   °             vebicules     121.87    143.88    144.83    136.93    547.52       65.00   355.89
K.  Entre 4nont.4qt                331      19.7      2.5       24.88     70.51       41.72    29.42
L: Fournituresetdiver3 35                   43.07 444. 66       40.35    163.96       62.03   101.71
Total 1ECUUT COSTS               539.18    651.81    698.86    699.31   2589.15       18.81   487.01
TotaA BASEIIIIE M.T$            2166.53   1532.01   1453.25   1133.18   628.96        53.04  3333.37
Tot i al co inSies             44.84     13.63      9.87      6.69     75.04       60.45    45.36
185.04    212.02    266.06    252.86    915.97       58.94   539.86
Total PRWECT COSTS              2396.40   1757.66   1729.17   1392.73   7275.96       53.86  3918.58
Taxes                           0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00        0.00     0.00
Foreign Exchane     _     _ 1654.31    901.20    830.05    533.01   3918.58       100.00  3918.58
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 3/1/1990 11:03



68
Annex 9
EtIuTr IU AufRICAs  REnUBIU C                                        Page 4 of 4
Natu   lReso e  Haaern  Project
Svamary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                     Totals Including Contingencies
90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    Total           90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    Total
I. IN1ESTIENT CQSTS
BA. ConS. bati. 6 infrastr.          78.37   107.52    60.87    62.04   308.8           0.26     0.36      0.20     0 21      1.03
i3 \            &MlCaest            648.52    17.97      0.72     0.75   667.96         2.16      0.06     0.00     0.00      2.23
C        eat  Equiperent            175 67    22.36    40         8 75   247.33         009        0        .o      8
E. Foation          ,43.99    81.24   112.17   104.48   341.88                          0.15     0.27      0.37     0.35      1.14
F. A:ssstanc9 Technique             289.77   298.50   311.41   242.44  1142.13          0.97     1.00      1.04     0.81     3.81
2. Sekvices de Consultants       310.38   462.93   359.48    98.49  1231.28          1.03     1.54      1.20     0.33     4.10
3. Etues                         224.50    1450    14.5    14.50   268.00            0.75     0.05      0.05     0 05     n 89
4. Audit                          18.71    19.72    13.31    13.89    65.64          0.06     0.07      0.04     0.05     0 22
Sub-Total                           843.36   795.65   698.71   369.33  2707.05          2.81     2.65      2.33     1.23      9.02
Total INVESTIENT COSTS             1817.63  1025.80   913.02   545.34  4301.80          6.06     3.42      3.04     1.82    14.34
IL  RECURRI COSTS
A. Salaires personnel NEFCPT        331.84   386.82   445.66   508.59  1672.91          1.11     1.29      1.49     1.70     5.58
B. Autres salalres                   49.04    74.85    82.69    62.11   268.68          0.16     0.25      0.28     0.21     0.90
C. Inde.uit4: 21.87    3.9?7   34.29    24.60   113.73                                  0.07     0.11      0.11     0.08     0.38
D   onctnebent vebc s               133.23   165c40   173.59   171.12   643.34          0.44     0.5       0.58     0.5?     2.14
E. Entretien const..& qpt             3.54    22.45    26.63    30.57    83.20          0.01     0.07      0.09     0.10     0.28
F. Fournitures et divers             39.25    49.37    53.30    50.39   192.30          0.13     0.16      0.18     0.17     0.64
Total RECURENT COSTS                578.77   731.86   816.16   847.38  2974.16          1.93     2.44      2.72     2.82     9.91
Total PROJECT COSTS                2396.40  1757.66  1729.17  1392.73  7275.96          7.99     5.86      5.76     4.64    24.25
Values_                          _ _ =          = =      = __. Scaled by                               .______.0 3/1990..____
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 3/1/1990 11:02



Annex 10
69                           Page 1 of 3
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time Taken to Prepare the Operation       Two years
(b)  Preparation Responsibility                Government with the
assistance of
external consultants
(c)  Project Preparation                       1988-89
(d)  Bank Appraisal Mission                    September 1989
(e)  Negotiations                              March-April 1990
(f)  Board Presentation                        May 15, 1990
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness             August 15, 1990
Section _I:    Special Conditions
(a) Conditions already fulfilled
(i) progress satisfactory to IDA in the execution of macro-
economic adjusttent program (para 3.3).
(ii) The revised Forestry Code has been approved by the Council
of Ministers and submitted to the National Assembly for
approval (para 3.6).
(iii) A policy directive from the President has been issued to all
local authorities instructing them to implement strict
measures against illegal hunting and poaching (3.10).
(iv) MEFCPT's new organization and staffing plan acceptable to IDA
have been adopted (para 3.15).
(v) Draft legislation establishing the Dzanga-Sangha Dense Forest
Sanctuary and the Dzanga-N'Doki National Park has been
approved by the Council of Ministers (para 3.34).
(b) Condition of Credit Effectiveness
-    The law creating the new Forestry Code has been enacted (para
3.6).
(c) Conditions of Second Tranche Release
(i) continued progress satisfactory to IDA in the execution of
macro-economic adjustment program (para 3.3).



70                               Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
(ii)  Essential decrees needed to implement the new Forestry Code
have been enacted (including texts related to bushf ire
control, forestry permits and forestry tax collection para
3.6).
(i-i) MEFCPT reorganization, training and staffing have been
completed (para 3.15).
(iv)  ONF, CNPAF and OCATOUR have been dissolved (para 3.15).
(d) Coniition of Suspension of Disbursements
(i)   The accountant not be appointed or maintained in service (para
3.35).
(ii)   Disbursement of the investment project would be suspended,
should progress in execution of the sector adjustment program
not be satisfactory (para 3.50).
(e) Other conditions
(i) The Forestry Fund will be established by December 31, 1991
(para 3.18).
(ii)  An assessment will be carried out by June 30, 1991 of the
efficiency of current procedures for assessing and collecting
forestry and wildlife taxes; and on the basis of that
assessment all appropriate measures required to improve the
efficiency of the system will be promptly implemented (para
3.18).
(iii) Submission to IDA by November 1 of each year of a work program
and budget for the MEFCPT for the following calendar year; and
by March 1 of each year, submission of a report on the
execution of said program during the preceding year (para
3.19).
(iv)  The aircraft required for surveillance will at all times be
operated by a duty licensed and experienced professional
pilot, be regularly maintained and promptly repaired as and
when required in accordance with appropriate engineering
practices; and used for purposes not directly related to the
project only to the extent that such use would not interfere
with the needs of the project and subject to payment of
appropriate fees by the user (para 3.19).
(v)   The selection of experts for the Senior Forestry Adviser and
Field Adviser posts will be subject to prior review of their
qualifications by IDA (para 3.20).



71                               Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
(vi) By June 30, 1991, land user rights will be granted to farmers
establishaed in selected forest subdivisions in the area of the
agro-forestry pilot component (para 3.31).
(vii) Execution of the forest reserve component to be carried out
by experts whose qualification and experience are acceptable
to IDA (para 3.34).
(viii) Government will employ and maintain during the project period
an accountant with qualifications and professional experience
satisfactory to IDA (para 3.35).
(ix) The project accounts, SOEs and the Forestry Fund accounts
will be audited annually by auditors acceptable to IDA; the
audit reports will be submitted to IDA no later than four
months after the close of each financial year; the project
administration will submit bi-annual progress reports to IDA
and later a report on the overall project implementation and
achievements within six months of the credit closing date
(para 3.48).



73
Annex 11
Status of hank Group Ogorations In th. Central African Republic
(in atiltlon of US dollar., s of Februar 2S, 1990)
Aspunt in US sillion
(less cancellations$
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                   Undis-
Credit No.  Year  Borrower                          Purpse                      Bank         IDA     bursed
Credits
15 Creditsis) closed                                                                       132.94
C1&810-CAR  196    CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC         NATL. LIVESTOK                         11.90       5.61
C1963-CA   1968   CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC          EDUCTION III                           18.00      16.11
C19160-CAR  198    CENTL AFRICAN REUBLIC            SAL    II                              qo.00       3.20
C1l9l0-CAR  19w9   CENTRAL AFRICAN RUBLIC           ECON IST                               13.20      12.66
C19780-CAR  198   CENTRAL ARICAN RWEPLIC            ENRY                                   18.00      12.87
TOT.L muaher Credits =   5                                                                  101.10      50.45
TOTAL*"                                                                    234.04
of which repaid                                                            1.63
TOTAL held by Bank I IDA                                                   232.41
-mt sold
of wbich repaid
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                      50.59
Notes:
N lot yet effective
N* ot yet signed
me  Total Approved, Repayuuuts, and hutstaindiu  balance reprusut both active and inartive Loas and Credits.



MAP SECTION



.NIGE2R                                    l_.                                                                                           '',                     24-       CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                    RDI09
o > _._.o --._./      2                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~A F R I C A               r,. f                        \REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
Ij    C H A Cs    c               S U D AN                                 .                          '&                         'CLIMTE, NATURAL VEGETATION, & RAiNFALL
N I G E 21I A                                                                                                                                                   CLIMri.NJ>°BrG\aAr, VEGETATION NATURELLE ET PlUVIOMETRIE
r!  > < 2 d W. 4 -- ° \ G ^'> >< °oSsc.^'-sNs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTUALVEETnN.VEETrIN ArREI
) CffERoo   %     AFRICAN  REPUBLIC    \                                                     |       j        -)c                                                                           ..8<o  
UATtIAt f F~YR                   ZAIRE              J                                      _                        .t101o ,,6:, 
. eo  UlNtAi    (_  4THE                                               .                                 .                                             >k
CONo   !                                           GNA       __                                                                                                       __ fRroA.G*w
s        \            ~~~~~~~C  H  A  D                   _          .              -____-                                      °Oa\
CAMEROON                              @                                        LLt                                    --    -                                                                  a
K    f /  ,° ~~Pohuo                          sibenlgob      ,          S                2     S     o
''\ ~~~~~~                            ~       ~       ~      ~~~~~                         ~~~~~           ~      ~~~~~~~~ .      ),aXA  X   / nvuI
/   \          : ~~~~~~~~,       Oo~~aingrs   txieC                                                   5      oit                    Ylnr-     
t   \            N oYezIsSS   olmlFb   \  )               ,            \       ,                                                                                         o~~~~~~~~~~~NMboki  ° Obo  
ll ~ MjOCrarnot ' . zS a ukc  7eoe plne O&"ngJir .    ib - #So--r 
"I        7 ~               1 -                                                        ez   oem
~\   brarberotl      -      o8lio    ~    z gfi;#,fGUI                                Ahi      ndoo  O0
jOGambot,lo ° ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,                                                                      M inemola                           P C>4UnG
h  ,      __               t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
\o\ S oN°1° r.,._ -o;_-r,4Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~into AIR ..pss*rruo
CAMEROON   2  /                      /                                             !                  w                                                                 o  'R'-' '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K.b
j    / PEPL   SRE                ,                                             stOETES                                                                                  ,el>e,,y s8,
t  j   OF  THE  CONG~Oda       .8v                                               'MIb;yS                          20s"a>es'>¢Sf
.J} 20 2 --sr.Vt < < e. xt 8 . .~~~~~



