Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2138 CA
(Natural Resource Management Credit)
between
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 20, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2138 CA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1990, between CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated November 27, 1989 from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designated to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's forestry and wildlife sector (the 
Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having committed itself to the execution of the Program 
and, as part of the Program, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(c)
"Project Preparation Advances" means the project preparation advances 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to exchanges of letters dated 
December 22, 1987 and June 8,
1988, and October 25, 1988 and November 14, 1988, between the Borrower and the 
Association;
(d)
"MEFCPT" means Ministcre des Eaux, Forcts, Chasses, Pcches et du 
Tourisme" of the Borrower;
(e)
"OCATOUR" means Office Centrafricain du Tourisme" an etablissement public 
of the Borrower established by Ordonnance No. 81/006 dated October 14, 1981 and 
operating pursuant to Decree No. 83/336 dated August 10, 1983 of the Borrower;
(f)
"ONF" means "Office National des Forcts", an etablissement public of the 
Borrower established by Ordonnance No. 69/049 dated September 29, 1969 as amended by 
Ordonnance No. 71/044 dated March 27, 1971 and operating pursuant to Decree No. 80/104 
dated February 15, 1980 of the Borrower;
(g)
"CNPAF" means Centre National pour la Protection et l'Amenagement de la 
Faune, an agency of the Borrower established by Ordonnance No. 77/014 dated March 1, 
1977 as amended by Ordonnance No. 82/014 dated February 27, 1982 and operating 
pursuant to Decree No. 79/276 dated June 1, 1979 of the Borrower; and
(h)
"CAADE" means Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement de la Dette de l'Etat, an 
"etablissement public" established by Ordonnance No. 72/073 dated September 11, 1972 
as amended by Ordonnance No. 73/039 dated April 10, 1973 and operating pursuant to 
Decree No. 84/262 dated August 2, 1984 of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies
equivalent to fourteen million and five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
14,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Page  3
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon 
be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15
commencing October 15, 2000 and ending April 15, 2030. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on April 15, 2010 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms 
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association 
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with 
the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall 
not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment 
Page  4
modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) CAADE is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in respect of 
Category (8) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby 
entrusts CAADE with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications 
under the Credit and for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be 
furnished to the Association in support of such applications; such withdrawal 
applications shall, to the extent practicable, be consolidated so as to apply for 
withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than SDR 300,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project and Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through
MEFCPT with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and forestry and wildlife management practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program 
and the actions specified in Schedule 4 of this Agreement.
(c)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31, 1991 establish, and 
thereafter maintain, a Forestry Fund which shall be funded with a portion of the 
proceeds of forestry and cynegetic taxes and managed in accordance with modalities 
satisfactory to the Association; (b) ensure that amounts deposited in the Forestry 
Fund shall be used exclusively for the purposes of defraying the costs incurred in the 
carrying out of projects relating to the forestry, wildlife and tourism sector; (c) 
have the Forestry Fund account and records audited for each fiscal year by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; (d) by March 31 of each year submit the report 
of said audit to the Association for its review and comments; and (e) (i) by June 30, 
1991, carry out an assessment of the efficiency of current procedures for assessing 
and collecting forestry and cynegetic taxes and submit the report of the findings of 
said assessment to the Association for its review and comments; and (ii) on the basis 
of the assessment referred to in subparagraph (i) above, implement promptly all 
appropriate measures required to improve the efficiency of the system for assessing 
and collecting said forestry an cynegetic taxes.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) by November 1 of each year prepare and 
submit to the Association a work program detailing specific tasks to be performed in 
Page  5
the carrying out of the Project during the following calendar year; and (b) by March 1 
of each year, submit to the Association a report on the progress achieved in the 
execution of said work program during the previous year.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of carrying out Part B.2 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall, by June 30, 1991, grant to farmers established in the forest 
subdivisions selected in agreement with the Association land user rights to be 
recognized and recorded in an appropriate administrative register of the Borrower.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that the aircraft referred to under Part 
A.3 of the Project shall be: (a) operated at all times by a duly licenced and 
experienced professional pilot; (b) regularly maintained and promptly repaired as and 
when required in accordance with appropriate engineering practices; and (c) used for 
purposes not directly related to the Project only to the extent that such use would 
not interfere with the needs of the Project and subject to payment of appropriate fees 
by the beneficiary of the services so required.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the responsibilities 
pertaining to the execution of Part C of the Project are entrusted to an expert to be 
assisted by a national professional, both with qualifications and professional 
experience satisfactory to the Association; and (b) employ and maintain in service 
during the execution period of the Project an accountant with qualifications and 
professional experience satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained, 
separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
Page  6
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, namely, that the revised Forestry 
Code has been enacted.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the 
Minister of the Borrower responsible for Economy and Finance is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance, Planning
   and International Cooperation
P.O. Box 912
Bangui
Central African Republic
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINECA
5280 RC
 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT) or
 82987 (FTC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  7
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ Jean-Francois Ndinga Gaba
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated      % of
                         (Expressed in     Expenditures
      Category           SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1)   Civil works              610,000     100%
(2)   Vehicles, equip-       1,590,000     100%
      ment and mate-
      rial (except
      for Part B.3
      of the Project)
(3)   Aircraft                 380,000     100%
(4)   Consultants'
      services:
      (a)   for Part A       2,270,000     100%
            of the
            Project
      (b)   for Part B       2,650,000     100%
            of the
            Project
      (c)   for Part C         300,000     100%
            of the
            Project
(5)   Training                 760,000     100%
(6)   Operating             1,970,000      100% until
      costs                                December 31, 1992,
                                           50% until
                                           December 31, 1993
                                           and 40% thereafter
(7)   Refunding of             530,000     Amounts due
Page  8
      Project                              pursuant to
      Preparation                          Section 2.02 (c)
      Advances                             of this Agreement
(8)   Agricultural          1,600,000      100% of foreign
      inputs, forestry                     expenditures
      machinery, vehicles
      and spare parts
      required during
      the execution of
      the Program
(9)   Unallocated           1,840,000
                            _________
            TOTAL          14,500,000
                           ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "operating costs" means expenses incurred for items such as: 
office supplies, building maintenance costs, vehicle repair and maintenance costs, 
expenses for travel related to the Project, and salaries for locally contracted staff.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 250,000, may be made in respect of Category (8) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after February 28, 1990; and (b) 
payments made for expenditures in respect of Categories (1) through (6), unless the 
Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the accountant referred to 
in
Section 3.07 (b) of this Agreement has been recruited and assigned to MEFCPT.
4.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to the Borrower or others in respect of expenditures to be financed under 
Category (8) of paragraph (1)
above, after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit 
Account under Category (8) of paragraph 1 above and the total amount of such 
commitments shall have reached the
equivalent of SDR 800,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program; (ii) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement have been taken; and (iii) a general macroeconomic framework satisfactory to 
the Association is in place.
5.
If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4(b) above, the 
Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and 
actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower 
shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, 
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of 
Category (8) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 above or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the capability of the Borrower to 
protect and manage its forest and wildlife resources on a sustainable basis.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
Page  9
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Strengthening
 
1.
Strengthening of the managerial and operational capability of MEFCPT.
 
2.
Construction of additional office space, refurbishing of existing facilities, 
and acquisition of office equipment.
3.
Acquisition of a small aircraft for surveillance of poaching and forest 
encroachment activities, vehicles and spare parts.
4.
Training and refresher courses for MEFCPT staff in subject matters related to 
forestry and wildlife resources management.
Part B:
Forestry Management Improvement
 
1.
Execution of a national forestry inventory, on a surface area of about 3.5 
million hectares in the dense forest zone (execution of field surveys, processing of 
data collected and production of required maps) and establishment of a forest 
inventory service within MEFCPT.
2.
Development of new agro-forestry technical packages to be tested on a pilot 
basis; acquisition of necessary equipment, supplies and materials; and provision of 
extension services.
3.
Acquisition of agricultural inputs, forestry, equipment, vehicles and spare 
parts required during the execution of the Program.
Part C:
Wildlife Sector Management Improvement
 
Establishment of camping facilities for the Dzanga-N'Doki national park guards; 
construction/rehabilitation of about 700 km of access roads and tracks; and 
acquisition of necessary equipment, supplies, materials and vehicles.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles, equipment and materials shall 
be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Works for construction of office building estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $500,000 per contract, and items or groups of items for equipment and 
materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more but less than the 
equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$1,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association.
2.
Items or groups of items for equipment, supplies and materials estimated to cost 
Page  10
the equivalent of less than $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent 
to $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations obtained from at least three reputable suppliers in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis 
of statements of expenditures.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section III.
Procurement of Goods other than for the Project, during the execution of 
the Program
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods by the Borrower or public sector entities 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more each, shall be awarded through 
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with those 
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the 
following modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity 
to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's 
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid; 
such advertisements should be 
placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in  addition, in at least one of the 
following forms;
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum, 
Page  11
Business Edition; 
or
 
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide 
international circulation; or
 
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in 
the Guidelines, who are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to 
state the bid 
price in a single currency widely used in international trade and 
specified in the bidding 
documents."
 
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
2.
Contracts for the procurement of goods by the Borrower or public sector entities 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $1,000,000 each may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list 
of at least three suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.
Contracts for the procurement of goods by private entities may be awarded, to 
the extent practicable, on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from 
a list of at least two suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under 
the Guidelines, or on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser 
of such goods.
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to the Association 
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of 
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of 
the respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising 
and tendering procedures followed and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
5.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 above, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to the Association 
of the first application for
withdrawals of funds from the Credit Account in respect thereof, such documentation 
and information as the Association may reasonably  request to support withdrawal 
applications in respect of such
contract.
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
The following actions have been taken, all in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association:
1.
Essential decrees and regulations required to implement the revised Forestry 
Code have been enacted.
2.
CNPAF, OCATOUR and ONF have been dissolved.
 
3.
MEFCPT reorganization and staffing have been fully completed.
 
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
Page  12
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (8) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
Page  13
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; and (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
