Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18449
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT (PARN)
(CREDIT 2138-CA)
September 30, 1998
Rural Development II
Country Department 7
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit = Macedonian Denar (MKD)
US $1 = 56.04 MKD, July 1 1998
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS       -  Country Assistance Strategy
CEFTA    -  Central European Free Trade Agreement
EBRD      -  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EDI       -   Economic Development Institute
ERL       -  Economic Recovery Loan
EU        -  European Union
FESAL    -  Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
FIAS      -   Foreign Investment Advisory Services
FYR       -  Former Yugoslav Republic
GDP       -   Gross Domestic Product
HDAC    -   Human Development Adjustment Credit
IDA       -  International Development Association
IFC       -  International Finance Corporation
IMF       -  International Monetary Fund
JPPR      -   Joint Portfolio Performance Review
MEBO      -  Management and/or Employee Buy-out
MIGA      -   Multilateral Investment Guarantee Association
NATO      -  North Atlantic Treaty Organization
OECD      -   Organization of European Cooperation and Development
OED       -   Operations Evaluation Department
PDP       -  Party for Democratic Prosperity
PSAL      -   Public Sector Adjustment Loan
QAG       -  Quality Assurance Group
SDR       -   Special Drawing Rights
SDSM      -   Social Democratic Union of Macedonia
SSAC      -   Social Sector Adjustment Credit
UN        -   United Nations
WTO       -  World Trade Organization
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn (IBRD) and Jemal-ud-din Kassum (IFC)
Country Director: Ajay Chhibber (IBRD)  and Harold Rosen (IFC)
Task Team:     Ellen Goldstein (IBRD)  and Khosrow Zamani (IFC)
Gregory Kisunko (IBRD)    Gjergi Konda (IFC)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT (PARN)
(Cr. 2138-CA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface ..........................................................i
Evaluation Summary .........................................................                                                ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT . ...................................1
Introduction ..........................................................1
Project Objectives and Components ...................                           ....................................... 2
Assessment of Objectives .......................................................... 4
Achievement of Project Objectives ..................                          ........................................      4
Implementation Experience and Major Factors affecting the Project ...............                              ...............8
Project Sustainability ..........................................................9
IDA  Performance .........................................................                                                 10
Borrower Performance .........................................................  10
Assessment of Project Outcome .........................................................  11
Future Operations .........................................................  11
Key Lessons Learned .........................................................  12
PART  II. STATISTICAL  TABLES  .......................                                ..................................  15
Table 1. Summary of Assessments .                           .        .........................................................  15
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credit ....................                           .....................................  17
Table 3. Projeet Timetable .........................................................                                       18
Table 4. Loan Disbursements:  Cumulative, Estimated and Actual .                                     .............................  19
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation .....................................................    20
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation ........................................                                    23
Table 7. Studies ........................................  24
Table 8. A. Project Costs ........................................   26
B. Project Financing ........................................                                                 27
Table 9. Economic Costs and Benefit ........................................   28
Table 1O. Status of Legal Convenants                               ........................................  29
Table 11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .......................................  32
Table 12. Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs                              ........................................  33
Table 13. Bank Resources: Missions                                 ........................ 34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
APPENDIX
Borrower's proposal for future actions for the management of the country's natural resources (in
French).
MAP: IBRD 18099R



- i -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT (PARN)
(Cr. 2138-CA)
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Central African Republic
Natural Resource Management Project for which Credit 2138-CA in the amount of SDR 14.5
million (US$19 million equivalent) was approved on May 22, 1990 and made effective on
August 20, 1990
2.    The Credit was closed June 30, 1997. The final disbursement took place on April 24,
1998, at which time a balance of SDR 0.38 million (US$ 0.5 million equivalent) was canceled.
Co-financing was provided for the project by USAID/WWF and technical assistance was made
available to the Government by the GTZ.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Claude Heimo, Senior Forestry Specialist (AFTR2) of the
Africa Region with support from Eavan O'Halloran, Consultant (AFTR2), and was reviewed by
Joseph Baah-Dwomoh, Sector Manager (AFTR2). The Borrower's contribution to the ICR
consisted of comments on the text which were incorporated in the document, and a proposal for
future actions for the management of the country's natural resources which is attached as an
appendix to the ICR. The co-financiers did not provide comments on the ICR.
4.    Political developments and the unstable security situation in the country caused the
World Bank to suspend all IDA CAR project disbursements in March 1997 and also prevented
the Bank's final supervision/completion mission from taking place. Therefore, the ICR is based
on material in the project files and on discussions with the Govermnent of the CAR and with the
staff of the project.



- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT (PARN)
(Cr. 2138-CA)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The National Resources Management Project was the first Bank project in support of
CAR's forestry sector. It was seen as the first phase of a long term development program to
implement a coherent set of sector policies to enhance sustainable forestry development, improve
processing efficiency and promote biodiversity conservation.
2.    Forestry is one of the key economic sectors for growth in CAR. In the late 1980s, the
sector underwent a severe crisis resulting in a steady decline of log production. This situation
was the result of a combination of factors, including a sharp decline in the demand for tropical
hardwood, an increase in transport costs, an overvalued FCFA, and, as a consequence, a low
level of investment and maintenance of equipment by forest companies. In addition, construction
of new roads penetrating deep into the dense forest to accommodate wood industries accentuated
fuelwood collection, slash and bum cultivation and ppaching to unsustainable levels.
3.   In 1988, these trends prompted the Government to redefine its forest sector policy as part
of the Structural Adjustment Loan II (SAL II). To complement the SAL II forestry program, the
1986-1990 Economic and Social Development Plan (ESDP) included a new forestry action
program aimed at preserving the ecological balance, maintaining the productive potential of its
natural forest resource base and increasing the contribution of the forestry sector to the national
economy. Under this scenario, the Natural Resource Management Project (NRMP) was designed,
approved in May 1990, and made effective in August 1990. The project was extended by 18
months and was closed on June 30, 1997.
Project Objectives
4.    The project was designed as a hybrid operation consisting of a small quick disbursing
sector adjustment program and a relatively large investment program in support of capacity
building and pre-investment activities. The sector adjustment program's objectives were to
complement the Structural Adjustment Loan program by introducing policy reforms to promote
the sustainable production of timber, improve efficiency of the domestic wood processing
industry and strengthen the Ministere de l'Environnement des Forets, Chasse, Peches et
Tourisme (MEFCPT) by improving its capacity to plan, manage, monitor and evaluate forestry
development and conservation activities.



- iii -
5.    The investment project was to be implemented over a four-year period. It was designed to
give the MEFCPT's central and field units the means and tools to strengthen its management,
enforcement and monitoring capacity. In support of this objective, the project included the
following four major components: (a) the execution of a reconnaissance multi-resource inventory
over approximately 4 million ha of remaining dense forest resources in the southwestern part of
the country; and subsequently of a forest land use map and program to delineate production and
protection priority zones; (b) the execution of agroforestry and forest land management activities
in 15 pilot villages around Bangui to slow down deforestation resulting from fuelwood collection
and encroachments; (c) additional infrastructure and equipment in support of the creation of the
Dzanga-Sangha protected area in collaboration with WWF-US; and (d) provision of offices,
office-training and radio communication equipment and vehicles for the MEFCPT's sixteen
central and field inspections.
6.    Assessment of Objectives.  The project objectives were consistent with the Bank's
strategy for the forest sector. The policy and institutional reforms were necessary to improve the
functioning of the forest sector by; (i) introducing stricter controls on forest management in favor
of a rational exploitation of the forest resource; (ii) implementing a better tax system that would
serve as an incentive, for more efficient and sustainable forest exploitation; and (iii) strengthening
the public institutions responsible for managing the country's forest resource base. The
investment components were important for; (i) improving the knowledge base of dense forest
ecosystems for planning purposes - particularly agricultural development planning to slow down
shifting cultivation and deforestation; (ii) maintaining the productive and economic potential of
the forest resources by strengthening MEFCPT's field management of the forest; and (iii)
protecting the country's biodiversity resources through improving the Dzanga-Sangha wildlife
park, introducing legislation to reduce poaching and bushmeat trade, and strengthening the
capacity of MEFCPT to protect biodiversity.
7.    Achievements of Objectives. Overall, the objectives of the investment component were
achieved and the investment program was rated as satisfactory throughout its life, despite the
socio-political instability and civil strife in the country which endangered implementation. The
project team, together with the technical assistance firm, achieved great success in implementing
the multi-resources inventory component as planned over 3,888,000 hectares. This was a major
achievement, particularly because all the data were stored on CD ROM and saved from the
project office looting which occurred during the civil unrest. The resource data and information
system developed by the project constitute a valuable first step in the development of a more
comprehensive forest land use and development plan that is essential for the sustainable use of
forest resources. It is generally agreed that this project component represents a model for the
Congo Basin countries for laying the groundwork for improved resource management,
sustainable forestry development and biodiversity conservation. The land management
component was successful in that the Bangui Forestry Master Plan was completed as planned
which outlined a fuelwood management plan for the areas around the capital city. The pilot
agroforestry component experienced some implementation problems but was successful in
providing a valuable contribution to a better understanding of the dynamic bio-physical and
socio-economic issues related to forest resource and wildlife conservation. The Dzanga-Sangha
wildlife protection component was successfully implemented by WWF-US throughout the



- iv -
project life. In addition, by strengthening the MEFCPT in policy formulation, planning and
coordination of field activities, the project enhanced the participation of nationals in future
planning. The project was successful in supplying offices, radio communication equipment and
vehicles for the MEFCPT central and field inspections.
8.    However, the achievement of the objectives for the sector adjustment program fell short
of expectations. Even though the reforms anticipated under the component were taken,
implementation capacity was weak to follow up on these. The main reasons which delayed
policy reforms and slowed down their implementation include: socio-political instability
resulting in civil strikes, army mutinies, destruction of the project headquarters and the looting of
nearly all project equipment and vehicles in April 1996; shortage of counterpart funds;
suspension of all CAR IDA disbursements in March 1997 due to the unstable country situation;
the Government's weak capacity to implement the forestry policy agenda and prescriptions of the
new Forest Code; and the lack of effectiveness of the MEFCPT's central decision-making
process. However, despite the disappointing performance of the component, the Bank and the
Government did agree on a forestry audit that provided useful information for future sustained
policy action.
9.    It became evident around 1995 to the Government and the Bank that, even though the
project concept was sound, the forestry sector as a whole was showing disappointing
performance in terms of forest management, industrialization and fiscal and export receipts and
that the necessary policy measures adopted were not being implemented. The main reason for
this was that the forest enterprises were exploiting the forest resources unsustainably. In
addition, they were not subject to strict controls as the Government had been unable to pay
sufficient attention to the need to consistently monitor the efficiency and effectiveness of the
proposed policy and fiscal reform programs designed to enhance sustainable forest management
and improve processing efficiency. As a result, in 1996, the Government requested the project to
assess the situation prevailing in the dense forest zone and to commission a fiscal and technical
audit of the seven transnational forest enterprises operating in CAR at this date. This audit report
was completed in 1997 and it proved to be a very useful contribution to understanding the
importance of the sector and the potential for correcting deficiencies. The audit report was
critical of the forest enterprises operating in CAR and it went on to outline several policy areas
for action. The confidential results of the audit gave the private sector and the Government the
opportunity to assess their progress in sustainable forest management and biodiversity
conservation and also provided an important tool to measure the need for progress, towards eco-
efficiency and certification. This constitutes a very important project achievement even though it
was not directly part of the initial project objectives.
10.   Assessment of Sustainability.  Low levels of counterpart contributions through the
regular budget of the MEFCPT suggested that it would be difficult for the Government to ensure
funding of follow-up forestry programs in the long term. However, the project has been able to
lay the ground-work for sustainable forestry development by identifying and introducing policy
reforms which have established a good legal and regulatory framework for the protection of
forest and wildlife resources, developing the necessary information data-base for continued land
management planning, and providing a greater understanding of the forestry sector, natural



resource management and wildlife protection in CAR. However, as anticipated at appraisal,
sustainability of forest sector management will depend on adequate future funding which, under
the current circumstances, depends upon further donor assistance. Such assistance must be
carried out in a framework combining policy and institutional reforms, as well as field activities.
11.  IDA  and Borrower Performance.  IDA's performance is rated satisfactory for
identification and preparation of the project and for supervision of the investment component.
IDA staff made considerable efforts during appraisal to build a comprehensive project addressing
the basic range of institutional, policy and technical problems affecting forestry development in a
country of very limited administrative capacity. With regard to the implementation of the
investment component, IDA took an effective decision in intensifying project supervision and
assigning its responsibility to the Resident Mission in Bangui. However, IDA's performance in
supervising the adjustment sector component was not satisfactory. In the early part of the
project, implementation follow-up on the measures adopted as part of the sector adjustment
component was not adequate. In particular, IDA did not insist on the government monitoring the
private sector's activities and its compliance with the new regulatory framework. This may have
been due to the relatively small amount (US$2 million of a total project cost of US$26.3 million)
allocated to the adjustment component.
12.   The Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory for the implementation of the
investment component and rated unsatisfactory in the area of policy reform implementation and
institutional development. Although the Borrower successfully managed to implement the
inventory and agroforestry components, it was in default in regard to: (i) yearly planning of
custodial field activities; (ii) counterpart funding; and (iii) the implementation of a coherent
forestry development strategy in line with the 1986-90 ESDP objectives. Most of the institutional
changes introduced by the project, except for the forestry audit, were obtained through conditions
of negotiations and effectiveness, not during the project implementation. This situation resulted
from the troubled political situation, which also caused too frequent changes at the Government
decision-making level to sustain internalization of the policy reform process anticipated at the
time of appraisal.
Key Lessons from Project Achievements
13.   The key lessons to be learned from the project achievements include:
* appropriate policy and institutional reforms should require a stronger focus on sector work in
advance of appraisal to help identify intersectoral policy flaws and integrate forestry
objectives in a wider economic and environmental framework
* the Borrower's capacity to absorb reforms should be estimated more carefully at appraisal
* implementation of timetables for policy changes should be more realistic and adapted to
sector's constraints



- vi -
*  complex projects, including those with a sector adjustment component, should have
experienced Bank staff with the necessary technical and economic skills to supervise policy
reforms adequately
*  in designing forestry and biodiversity conservation programs, more attention should be
devoted to local constraints and policy distortions underlying natural resource degradation
and forest depletion
*  forestry development and biodiversity conservation recurrent costs should not depend
entirely on the Government budget. As a result, identifying alternative sources of long-term
funding (such as GEF, Debt for Nature Swap, Carbon Trade, endowments for nature
conservation, etc.) would be essential for long-term sustainability of project activities
Future Operations
14.   Should the political situation become more stable, the ground-work laid by the project
would permit further donor assistance in a program framework combining sector policy reform,
investment planning and improved availability of human resources. The following four priority
objectives and components could be considered: (a) further clarify sustainable forest
management objectives, strategies, standards and prescriptions; (b) further strengthen the
MEFCPT Forest Management Unit to better plan and monitor the implementation of sustainable
management prescriptions by logging companies and to monitor continuously the forest
environment; (c) create a joint-Government/private sector mechanism to advise the private sector
on how to develop sustainable business strategies, eco-efficiency and best practices in forestry
operations; and (d) broaden the wildlife protection program initiated in Dzanga-Sangha with the
support of WWF/USAID to support the creation of a tri-national park (Dzanga-Sangha in CAR,
Lobeke, Nki and Boumba-Bek in Cameroon and Ndoki in Congo) and reinforce transnational
anti-poaching measures.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT (PARN)
(Cr. 2138-CA)
PART l: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    Forestry is one of the key economic sectors for growth in CAR. During the 1980s, it
accounted on average for about 3% of GDP and 20% of officially recorded exports, ranking third
after diamonds and coffee as the main source of foreign exchange. Forest and woodland
resources of CAR are an important source of livelihood: they supply, over 90% of the energy
requirements of CAR's households and about one third of total animal protein intake from game
products in addition to many fruits, foods and medicinal plants. The forest sector also
contributes significantly to govermnent revenues in the form of fees and taxes. Moreover, it
provides direct employment to about 4,000 people or about 12% of total formal employment in
the modem sector of the economy.
2.   In the late 1 980s, the sector underwent a severe crisis resulting in a steady decline of log
production. This situation was the result of a combination of factors, including a sharp decline in
the demand for tropical hardwood from Africa, an increase in transport costs, an overvalued
FCFA, and as a consequence, a low level of investment and maintenance of equipment by forest
companies. As a result, only five forest companies were operating in CAR in late 1988 compared
with nine in 1984. In addition, the construction of new roads penetrating deep into the dense
forest to accommodate wood industries increased fuelwood collection, slash and burn cultivation
and poaching to unsustainable levels.
3.    These difficulties prompted the Government to redefine its forest sector policy. Under the
Structural Adjustment Loan II, the Government formulated a new forestry and wildlife strategy
aimed at maintaining the long-term productive potential of its natural forest resource base; and
increasing the contribution of the forestry sector to the national economy through the rational
management, exploitation and conservation of the forest resources. To achieve these two
objectives, the 1986-1990 Economic and Social Development Plan (ESDP) underlined the need
to carry out a national forest inventory, reinforce the capacity of MEFCPT, improve the control
of fuelwood gathering around urban areas, develop a network of protected areas and increase the
awareness of rural populations on the need to protect the environment. With these objectives in
mind, the Government requested IDA financial assistance to increase the country's capacity to
manage the sector and the Bank agreed in early 1988 to support the forestry action program by
approving a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) for a Natural Resources Management Project.



-2 -
4.    The project was appraised in September 1989, negotiated in March 1990, and approved
on May 22, 1990. The total costs of the project were estimated at US$26.3 million - including a
fast disbursing component of US$2.0 million and an investment component of US$24.3 million.
Of this amount, IDA was to finance US$19 million, WWF/USAID US$400,000 earmarked for
the Dzanga Sangha component, and the Government US$6.9 million. In parallel to the project,
the GTZ financed two consultants to reinforce the capacity of the MEFCPT to manage and
implement the project's components. The project was made effective on August 20, 1990 and
closed on June 30, 1997, 18 months beyond the original closing date.
Project Objectives and Components
5.    Project Objectives. The project was restricted to the southwest dense forest zone, where
most of the remaining forests are located. It was designed as the first phase of a long-term
development program to: (i) promote sustainable production and resource conservation; and (ii)
strengthen forest sector institutions by improving their capacity to plan, manage, monitor and
evaluate forestry development and conservation activities in the south-west dense forest zone
covering approximately 4 million ha. More specifically, the project provided support to: (a)
promote further policy reforms to ensure sustainable timber production through improved
management of natural forest and better efficiency of the domestic wood processing industry; (b)
restructure the sector's institutions and strengthen MEFCPT's capacity to implement effective
field controls and promote environmental protection; (c) develop an inventory to improve
knowledge of existing dense forest resources as a basis for sound planning; (d) promote a better
management of the interface between agriculture and forestry to stop the destruction of the rain
forest around Bangui; and (e) protect the Sangha-Dzanga forest reserve with an emphasis on
wildlife conservation.
6.    Project Components. The project was designed as a hybrid operation consisting in a
small, quick disbursing sector adjustment program (to be disbursed in two equal tranches about
18 months apart) and a relatively large investment project in support of institution building and
pre-investment activities.
7.    The sector adjustment program consisted mainly of:
the completion and consolidation of on-going policy reforms initiated under two
structural adjustment loans (SAL I and II) to improve the regulations governing the
use of forest and wildlife resources by the industry and local populations, including
(i) the development and approval of a new forestry code to increase incentives for
users (industry and local population) to participate in the protection of forest
resources, (ii) an improved fiscal regime for forestry and wildlife to promote
sustainability and to increase Government's and local population's revenue from
taxes; (iii) an incentive program to develop the domestic market for wood products;
and (iv) the implementation of strict measures against illegal hunting and poaching;
*   restructuring the MEFCPT and its affiliated parastatal agencies, together with
adoption of a staffing plan. The institutional restructuring program included the



- 3 -
dissolution of the affiliated parastatal agencies (ONF, CNPAF, OCATOUR) and
strengthening of MEFPCT central and field units;
8.    The pre-investment program was to be implemented over a four-year period. It was
designed to give the MEFCPT central and field units the means and tools to strengthen its
management, enforcement and monitoring capacity. In support of this objective, the project
included the following major components:
*   execution of a reconnaissance multi-resource inventory for about 4 million ha of
remaining dense forest resources in the southwestern part of the country and,
subsequently, of a forest land use map and program to delineate production and
protection priority zones;
*   execution of pilot agroforestry and forest land management in 15 villages around
Bangui to slow down deforestation resulting from fuelwood collection and
encroachments. This component also included the execution of a detailed bio-
physical inventory to be carried out by the inventory team; a program of research
and development; and the extension of improved cultivation techniques;
3   support to the ongoing WWF-assisted, USAID financed Dzanga-Sangha multi-
resource area, including the gazettment of two protected areas, provision for
additional park infrastructure, vehicles and equipment;
*   provision of offices, office-training and radio communication equipment and
vehicles for the MEFCPT central and field inspections. This component also
included the purchase of a twin-engine airplane for poaching and encroachment
surveillance and for rapid intervention.
9.    Under the overall supervision of the Minister of MEFCPT, a small project administration
unit was set-up to supervise implementation. Technical assistance was provided to (i) assist with
the restructuring of the MEFCPT; (ii) conduct forest inventory activities; and (iii) support the
agroforestry component.
Assessment of Project Objectives and Project Design
10.   As stated at appraisal, the objectives supported by the project, although ambitious, were
clear and relevant to the long-term needs of the sector and to the Bank's concern for promoting
sound management and protection of forest resources. The objectives were also consistent with
the Bank's policy to strengthen public institutions in areas that cannot be left to the private
sector. The policy and institutional reforms were necessary to improve the functioning of the
forest sector by; (i) introducing stricter controls on forest management in favor of a rational
exploitation of the forest resource; (ii) implementing a better tax system that would serve as an
incentive for more efficient and sustainable forest exploitation; and (iii) strengthening the public
institutions responsible for managing the country's forest resource base.  The investment
components were important for; (i) improving the knowledge base of dense forest ecosystems for



- 4 -
planning purposes - particularly agricultural development planning to slow down shifting
cultivation and deforestation; (ii) maintaining the productive and economic potential of the forest
resources by strengthening MEFCPT's field management of the forest; and (iii) protecting the
country's biodiversity resources through improving the Dzanga-Sangha wildlife park,
introducing legislation to reduce poaching and bushmeat trade, and strengthening the capacity of
MEFCPT to protect biodiversity.
11.  In retrospect, even though the reforms anticipated under the structural adjustment
program were taken, implementation capacity was weak to follow up on these because of the
weakness of the Forestry Administration. In this respect, insufficient attention was given at the
design stage, appraisal and during early implementation to the need to consistently monitor the
efficiency and effectiveness of the proposed policy and fiscal reform programs. The project
overestimated both the MEFCPT's capacity to enforce sustainable forest management and
conservation standards and the political economic realities of the sector. In addition to this,
MEFCPR's effectiveness was, at that time, being weakened by the retirement of many of its
more qualified staff. Due to the restrictions placed on public sector recruitment by the IMF as
part of the structural adjustment program, these staff were not being replaced. Under the
institutional system, private sector operators had (and still have) no positive incentive to pursue
sustainability and increase processing efficiency as there was practically no penalty for non-
compliance. While a great deal has been done under the project to improve the conditions that
appear in forest management contracts towards sustainability, the problem was that they were not
observed in practice by the permit holders given the MEFCPT's weak field presence and
enforcement capacity. Furthermore, the political instability and the lack of effectiveness of
MEFCPT's decision-making process delayed policy reformns and slowed down project
implementation. In a country like CAR, where monitoring and controlling the whole territory
may prove too large a task, a more pragmatic approach to the reorganization of MEFCPT should
have been adopted with the MEFCPT concentrating on priority key ecological zones (southern
dense forest zone, the Bangassou forest zone, fishing zones along the Bar Aouk and the
Oubangui) and possibly transferring to the MAL (Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock) the
responsibility for rural land and natural resource management.
12.   As regards the agroforestry component, the project design should have included a
monitoring and evaluation system which would have helped the project to identify more suitable
tree species acceptable to the beneficiaries. The absence of M&E activities not only prevented
the project from assessing the impacts of the program, but also deprived the MEFCPT of a
management tool which might have enabled a more integrated agroforestry approach focused on
farmers' needs and constraints.
Achievement of Project Objectives
13.   Achievement of project objectives is evaluated according to two categories: (i)
investment program and (ii) forest sector policies.



-5-
(a)   Investment Program
14.   Overall, the objectives for the investment component were achieved and the investment
program was rated satisfactory throughout its life, despite the socio-political instability and civil
strife in the country which endangered implementation.
15.   The project team, together with the technical assistance firm, achieved great success in
implementing the multi-resources inventory component and land use mapping as planned over
3,888,000 ha. This is certainly the most prominent achievement of the project. It provided
information on the forest ecosystem diversity, floral/fauna composition, structure, functions and
the distribution of the major commercial species. This information was translated into a forest
land use map classifying the dense forest zone into seven management units as a basis for land
use planning, the preparation of development scenarios and the development of a new forest
resource allocation, pricing and tax system. The resource data and information system developed
by the project constitute a valuable first step in the development of a more comprehensive forest
land use and development plan that is essential for the sustainable use of forest resources. The
information generated by this component is also a vital tool for the government to improve its
planning capacity. In addition, this project component contributed to: (i) the establishment of a
geo-referenced data base for accumulating knowledge on the dense forest and social systems; (ii)
the publication of a series of thematic maps at 1:500.000 scale, including the distribution of the
major commercial species; and (iii) the strengthening of national capacity to monitor private
sector activities and enforce sustainable management prescriptions. It is generally agreed that
this project component represents a model for the Congo Basin countries for laying the
groundwork for improved resource management, sustainable forestry development and
biodiversity conservation. The successful implementation of this component was due to the
initiatives taken by the project management unit and staff and the positive contribution of the
technical assistance firm during the last project year to safeguard the inventory data bank on CD
ROM.
16.   The agroforestry andforest land management component was closed in April 1996 as a
result of the socio-political unrest and the destruction of the project HQ. However, due to the
transfer of the inventory data bank on CD ROM to Canada, the Bangui Forestry Master Plan was
completed as planned. Given a more stable political situation, the govemrnment intends to use this
plan as a basis for the development of a community forestry strategy around Bangui to sustain
the source of fuelwood for the capital city and make its supply more efficient through correcting
policy distortions.
17.   The agroforestry research and development program developed in 15 villages around
Bangui fell short of appraisal expectations as it was not able to develop technical agroforestry
packages which could stimulate grassroots involvement in the proposed programs. Small forest
land users did not perceive the need for getting trees from the project nurseries. A more in-depth
knowledge of farmers' attitudes towards trees and agroforestry species, as well as factors
affecting the adoption of agroforestry innovations, was needed to shape the technical messages in
such a way that they could be adapted to local conditions. However, this component was
successful in providing a valuable contribution to a better understanding of the dynamic bio-



-6 -
physical and socio-economic issues related to forest resources and wildlife conservation. In view
of the lessons that could be derived from this experience, achievements made under this
component could be considered as marginally satisfactory.
18.   Only marginally affected by the 1996-1997 political events, the Dzanga-Sangha Wildlife
Protection Component was successfully implemented by WWF-US throughout the project life.
Besides technical assistance, the project financed additional infrastructure such as guard camps,
the construction and rehabilitation of access roads and safari towers, the provision of vehicles for
the management and protection of the dense forest reserve and the national park; the extension of
agroforestry species in buffer zones; and operating costs. The lack of counterpart funds prompted
the creation of a very effective local development fund based on tourist revenues. As a result, the
achievement of this component was satisfactory.
19.   Despite the reorganization of the MEFCPT and the dissolution of CNPAF, OCATOUR
and ONF, the capacity building component was unsatisfactory. The implementation of the
component was delayed due to the series of strikes which paralyzed the country and only began
properly in 1994. By the project's end, only a few civil servants had benefited from training and
the human resource capacity was still poor. Moreover, as the proposed study on training needs
was not conclusive, no progress was made on the training of administrative staff as well as on the
improvement of governance procedures (in particular procurement procedures). No change was
introduced in the decision-making process in the reorganized Ministry which remained highly
centralized. Partial progress was, however, made with the establishment of a new unit in charge
of statistics which produced useful but incomplete information briefs on the sector (although not
coordinated with the statistics originating from the Ministries of Finance and Trade). The
capacity of execution agents and some staff from MEFCPT was strengthened to some extent
through their close participation with the external technical experts in the execution of the
project's technical components of forestry inventory, agro-forestry, remote sensing, information
systems, extension, as well as project management and administration. However, compared to
the efforts deployed, the achievements in improving public administration were unsatisfactory.
20.   Technical Assistance. Most of the technical assistants were expatriates in the field of
forest inventory, agroforestry, remote sensing, computer technology and statistics. The greatest
success of the TA was achieved in the forest inventory component, particularly in saving the data
bank on CD ROM. Execution of the training program started three years behind schedule
because of disagreement between the Government and the consultant on the content and scope of
the program. However, as political developments prevented the Bank's final
supervision/completion mission from taking place, it was not possible to reconcile training
delivered and its impact in the absence of an adequate monitoring system and within the context
of excessively high staff turnover. The TA supported adequately the MEFCPT's staff in the
completion of the forest sector audit which was achieved on time in spite of the 1996-97 political
turmoil.



- 7 -
(b)   Sector Adjustment Program
21.   The Government adopted a number of measures that were essential prerequisites for
sound forest management: (i) the adoption of new forest and wildlife legislation; (ii) the
reorganization of the MEFCPT including the closing down of parastatal agencies under the
Ministry's supervision; and (iii) the creation of a Forestry Fund. However, it became evident
around 1995 to the Government and the Bank that, even though the project's objectives in policy
reform were sound, the forestry sector as a whole was showing disappointing performance in
terms of forest management, industrialization, and fiscal and export receipts. The main reason
for this was that the forest enterprises were exploiting the forest resources unsustainably and
were not subject to strict controls by the Government. In October 1995, the Government issued a
report attesting that, in spite of the sector adjustment and policy reform program implemented by
the project, only two species - Sapelli and Ayous - still represented the bulk of logs and wood
product exports (more than 85%) and that private operators with functioning processing facilities
continued to export only higher grades of both species and process or abandon the lower grades
in the forest. Average harvesting and conversion efficiencies remained, during the project life,
below 20%, largely below the minimum standards generally observed in the other Congo Basin
countries. Because of the high transport costs to Douala, most of the logs produced were
transformed locally. This was done inefficiently because of resource pricing distortion, absence
of fiscal and political incentives to invest in and replace existing obsolete harvesting and
processing equipment, very high maintenance and operating costs, and lack of working capital.
22.   If continued over the following years, this situation of high grading and overcutting
would lead to the reduction of cutting cycles which, in turn, would not only slow the regrowth of
the residual stock but also decrease its economic value. This situation posed a threat to the
integrity of the forest ecosystem, in particular the survival of the Sapelli population. As a result
of this, the Government requested the project to assess the situation prevailing in the dense forest
zone and to commission a fiscal and technical audit of the seven transnational forest enterprises
operating in CAR at this date.
23.   The forest sector review and the audit of the seven transnational forest enterprises
operating in CAR was successfully completed2 between 1996 and the first half of 1997, despite
the socio-political disorder. The audit report shows that most of the forest enterprises operating
in CAR were harvesting and processing logs which were escaping forest taxation or were
entering the processing facilities at less than their economic cost. It went on to outline that there
was no compliance with the most basic standards of sustainable forest management. The audit's
conclusions also emphasized that:
a)   the productive and revenue potential of the sector was underutilized by both the
Government and the private sector;
b)   the existing system of allocation of forest land for management was inefficient,
not competitive and lacked transparency and objectivity. The main reasons given
2 By SGS Forestry, Oxford in association with the MEFCPT staff.



-8-
by the Government for continuing to have the existing system in place were that
the geographical position of the CAR was disadvantageous and there was a
limited number of industrial agents active in the country due to the precarious
conditions of the sector (high transport costs and costs of production). These
reasons were given as justification for why large concessions (300,000 hectares on
average) were allocated to guarantee better profitability of private sector
investment.
c)   the existing system of taxation raised too many administrative costs, did not
provide enough incentives for sustainable forest management and acted as a
deterrent to private sector investment. Because of weak collection, the tax burden
was still biased towards export tax, i.e. the wrong end of the taxation spectrum for
sustainable management purposes;
d)    forestry administration was unable to control logging operations and remained
unprepared for the necessary forestry sector reforms; and
e)   transnational forest companies with valid harvesting permits were not operating in
compliance with the basic requirements of the new Forest Code.
24.   The audit report concluded that there was a wide recognition by both the Government and
the private sector that the business-as-usual approach to forest utilization had failed and that, in
practice, very little had changed since the launching of the sector adjustment program in 1989.
Furthermore, the audit outlined several policy areas for action - some to be taken in the short run,
some to be implemented more gradually. The confidential results of the audit not only gave the
private sector and the Government the opportunity to assess their current level of commitment to
sustainable forest management and biodiversity conservation, but also provided an adequate tool
to measure their needs for progress towards eco-efficiency and certification. These results
constitute a very useful contribution to understanding the sector and the potential for correcting
deficiencies.
Implementation Experience and Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Generally Outside Government Control
25.   Political instability and civil disturbances substantially affected implementation of the
project. The general strikes from 1991 to 1993 caused serious financial difficulties in an already
difficult public finance situation and led to inadequate budgetary allocations for counterpart
funds. The unstable situation of 1996 and 1997 caused the destruction of the project headquarters
and the looting of nearly all equipment and vehicles.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
26.   Government commitment to sustainable forest management and biodiversity conservation
appeared firm during project preparation, appraisal and negotiation. During the project's



-9-
implementation, the Government progressively introduced reformns in forest taxation and created
incentives in favor of a more sustainable management of the forest resources. However, its
subsequent inability to implement the forestry policy agenda substantially impeded attainment of
the project policy goals as illustrated by the forest sector audit's results. Clearly, the Government
was not in a position to resist the strong vested interests of the private sector. In the absence of an
efficient enforcement capacity, the forest concession system endorsed by the new Forest Code
was a powerful vehicle of political patronage with the end result that sustainability and efficiency
issues were secondary concerns of the Government and forest enterprises. The Government's
non-payment of salary arrears led to a lack of civil servants' commitment and caused civil strikes
punctuated with violence and looting.
27.   Counterpart Funding. Although the quality and rigor of the financial management were
satisfactory throughout the project, many of the project's problems stemmed from insufficient
counterpart funding. Major delays occurred in disbursements, procurement and replenishment of
the Special Account as the project was undermined by delays in providing counterpart funds. As
a consequence, the financial situation of the Dzanga-Sangha and MEFCPT institutional
development programs suffered periodic financial problems causing a virtual standstill of the
field offices construction program and prompting WWF to find supplementary financial support
from USAID and GTZ. The 1996-1997 political situation and civil strikes further exacerbated the
problems.
Project Sustainability
28.   Low levels of counterpart contributions through the regular budget of the MEFCPT
suggested that it would be difficult for the Government to ensure funding of follow-up forestry
programs in the longer term. This concern was exacerbated by the political strife of 1996 and
1997 leading to the destruction of the project building, the looting of all equipment and vehicles,
and the follow-up suspension of all IDA credits to the CAR in March 1997.
29.   The project has, however, been able to lay the ground-work for sustainable forestry
development by identifying and introducing policy reforms which have established a good legal
and regulatory framework for the protection of forest and wildlife resources, developing the
necessary information data-base for continued land management planning, and providing a
greater understanding of the forestry sector, natural resource management and wildlife protection
in CAR. The government of the CAR has continuously made efforts to reform forestry policy
and institutions and is also in the process of publishing the National Environmental Action Plan.
These are good indicators of its commitment to natural resource management. In particular, the
Government has put forward new regulations to redistribute 25 percent of forestry taxes to local
populations and the new fiscal legislation has built on the recommendations of the forestry audit.
However, as anticipated at appraisal, real sustainability of the project achievements will depend
upon the following factors: (i) political stability; (ii) Government's adherence to additional
policy and institutional reforms; (iii) Government's commitment to redistribute a more adequate
share of forest revenues to local communities who participate in conservation practices; (iv) the
development of programs aimed at making forest-based industry more environmentally and
socially responsible as well as more efficient; (v) Government's commitment to the



-10-
recommendations of the Environmental Action Plan; and (vi) multilateral finance institutions'
longer-term commitment to ensure that forest sustainability and forest conservation issues are
adequately considered in the design of structural adjustment programs. The initial appraisal did
anticipate the project as a first phase of a long-term operation and hence implied that
sustainability would depend on follow-up action.
IDA Performance
30.   IDA's performance is rated satisfactory for identification and preparation with regard to
the project concept. In view of the problems affecting the forest sector, IDA staff made
considerable efforts during appraisal to build a comprehensive project addressing the basic range
of institutional, policy and technical problems affecting forestry development in a country of
very limited administrative capacity. In hindsight, however, the project appraisal was marginally
satisfactory since the appraisal did not fully take account of the Government's capacity to
implement the program. The MOP was rich in technical details but, for future supervisions, it
lacked a set of performance indicators and monitoring tools to assess the impacts of the policy
reform and sector adjustment programs.
31.   For implementation of the investment program, IDA  performance is also rated
satisfactory. It intensified project supervision by assigning its responsibility to the Resident
Mission in Bangui as from the project inception, which facilitated the smooth execution of the
investment component. However, IDA's performance in supervising the implementation of the
sector adjustment component was not satisfactory. There was little or no supervision of this
component during the initial stages of implementation. In fact, supervision missions up to 1994
were mainly concerned with the achievements in the investment program, i.e. the components
dealing with forestry, agroforestry, wildlife protection, infrastructure and equipment. The
relatively small amount (US$2 million of a total project cost of US$26.3 million) allocated to the
adjustment component was also a reason for the lack of emphasis on supervision. Even though
the policy sector reform program proposed at appraisal was sound, private sector's activities and
non-compliance with the new regulatory framework were not adequately monitored. A sector
policy program of that complexity should have called for: (i) a follow-up by the staff members
who helped the Government conceive the sector adjustment component during implementation
(but this was not done); (ii) more frequent supervision missions equipped with a better
monitoring system; and (iii) a longer presence in the field to assess private sector's compliance
with legal prescriptions. Moreover, given the counterpart funding difficulties experienced by the
project, it can be argued that more time should have been devoted to recurrent expenditures'
problems of the proposed program.
Borrower Performance
32.   Borrower performance is rated satisfactory for the physical implementation of the main
investment component. It is rated unsatisfactory in the area of policy reform and institutional
development. Although the Borrower successfully managed to implement the inventory and
agroforestry components, it was in default in regard to: (i) yearly planning of custodial field
activities; (ii) counterpart funding; and (iii) the implementation of a coherent forestry strategy in



- I1 -
line with the objectives of the 1986-1990 ESDP. Most of the institutional changes introduced by
the project, with the exception of the forestry audit, were obtained through conditions of
negotiations and effectiveness, not during the project implementation. This situation resulted in
large part from the troubled political situation, which also caused too frequent changes at the
decision-making level in the Government to sustain full internalization of the policy reform
process anticipated at the time of appraisal. However, the Government did show its commitment
to try to develop sustainable forestry management and biodiversity protection through supporting
the numerous projects in force or in preparation in the area of natural resource management, i.e.
this project, the Dzangha-Sangha project, ECOFAC, the Natural Resources Development Project
(PDRN), the REIMP and the Bangassou Forest Conservation Project.
33.   The Project Management Unit performed reasonably well in monitoring project activities.
However, since 1994, it tended to concentrate more on the inventory component and the
preparation of a future investment project rather than on the monitoring of the implementation of
the sector adjustment program. Currently, this unit is on track to become an efficient agency to
help the Government plan and control implementation of sustainable management standards by
logging companies and to monitor continuously the dense forest environment.
Assessment of Project Outcome
34.   The project's successful achievements in the investment program (which make up 91
percent of project costs) constitute a satisfactory outcome of the project. Major benefits of the
investment program include: (i) provision of the first major investment in the natural resources
sector in CAR and laying the groundwork for improved resource management, sustainable
forestry development and biodiversity conservation; (ii) developing the resource data and
information system to provide the necessary inputs into comprehensive forest land use and
development plans which are a vital tool for the government to improve its planning capacity;
and (iii) preparation of the Bangui Forestry Master Plan which forms a basis for the development
of a community forestry strategy around Bangui to sustain the source of fuelwood for the capital
city.
35.   With respect to the sectoral adjustment program, the Government adopted a number of
measures that were essential prerequisites for sound forest management but it is clear from the
policy and legal recommendations of the audit work that the political economy realities of the
sector were the main determinants of the sector's performance as a whole. In particular, the low
economic performance of the sector, the very low level of processing efficiency and the lack of
compliance of the private sector with existing forest management and biodiversity conservation
regulations meant that the overall environment could not easily be changed. The audit is a
particularly useful contribution to understanding the forestry sector as a whole and it provides
extensive recommendations on policy, legal and institutional reforms that are needed to sustain
and expand on the positive achievements of the project. These recommendations are vital for
planning and implementing future investment activities in CAR's forestry sector. They include:
a)    a new permit allocation system based on the actual commercial value of the
permits calculated from the inventory results indexed to world prices;



- 12-
b)    simplifying the current tax system  by abolishing several minor taxes and
introducing a new forest fiscal regime based on an annual rental fee, a stumpage
tax and the gradual elimination of export taxes for both log and processed wood
products. This moves the weight of taxation from downstream (export taxes) to
upstream taxes (area taxes and stumpage taxes). Other proposals included
abolishing the current reforestation tax since reforestation responsibility should be
placed on permit holders and reflected in area taxes (or annual rental fees);
c)    the decentralization of management responsibilities to make permit holders
responsible for management activities;
d)    the promotion of a green/quality label based on well-defined sustainable
management standards to offer high environmental performance in addition to
high quality products;
e)    the creation of an independent evaluation and arbitration mechanism to conduct
annual performance evaluation of permit holders' compliance with sustainable
management standards or management plan prescriptions; and
f)    strengthening the forestry profession to perform work on a management contract
basis, including the setting-up of a professional certification system (e.g. code of
forest principles for private forest enterprises).
Future Operations
36.   On the strength of the successful experience of the investment program and the need for
additional policy reforms and a capacity building program to foster sustainable forestry
development, a follow-up IDA credit was envisaged in early 1997. Preparation of this new
project, however, never materialized due to the political situation prevailing in the country since
1996 and the general suspension affecting all IDA projects. Should the political situation become
more stable, the ground-work laid by the project would permit further donor assistance in a
program framework combining sector policy reform, investment planning and improved
availability of human resources. Such a future operation should be held within the framework
established under this first project to continue developing the policy foundation for sustainable
forestry development and biodiversity conservation in CAR. Based on this premise, the
following four priority objectives and components could be considered:
a)   further clarify sustainable forest management objectives, strategies, standards
and prescriptions through the development of a policy formation mechanism (with
the participation of the major interest groups). The objectives of this proposed
mechanism should aim at enhancing coordination among relevant interest groups
and at resolving conflicts and promoting equitable sharing of benefits derived
from the use of forest resources with local communities;



- 13 -
b)   further strengthen the MEFCPT Forest Management Unit to (i) better plan and
monitor the implementation of sustainable management prescriptions by logging
companies; and (ii) continuously monitor forest environment. Under this
component, the project data base established by this project should be further
expanded to include monitoring management inventory results and socioeconomic
data provided by forest industries and other institutions involved in biodiversity
conservation;
c)    create a joint-Government/private sector mechanism to advise and supervise the
private sector on developing sustainable business strategies, eco-efficiency and
best practices in forestry operations and development; and
d)    broaden the wildlife protection program initiated in Dzanga-Sangha with the
support of WWF/USAID to support the creation of a tri-national park (Dzanga-
Sangha in CAR, Lobeke, Nki and Boumba-Bek in Cameroon and Ndoki in
Congo) and reinforce transnational anti-poaching measures.
Key Lessons Learned
37.   Some of the key lessons to be learned from the sector adjustment program include:
a)    appropriate policy and institutional reforms should require a stronger focus on
sector work in advance of appraisal to help identify intersectoral policy flaws, and
integrate forestry objectives in a wider economic and environmental framework.
Furthermore, the process of formulating forest policy should be opened to the
participation of all stakeholders, the private sector and environmental NGOs;
b)   the Borrower's capacity to absorb reforms should be estimated more carefully at
appraisal;
c)   implementation of timetables for policy changes should be more realistic and
adapted to sector's constraints;
d)   supervision documentation and implementation indicators should be prepared in
advance of implementation of policy and institutional reforms;
e)    complex projects, including sector adjustment components, should have
experienced staff with the necessary technical and economic skills to supervise
policy reforms adequately; and
f)   regular independent surveys of the impacts of project activities and policy reforms
must be more widely distributed to enable Bank's staff to improve the quality of
the macroeconomic dialogue with borrowers and the quality of their work.



- 14-
38.   Many other lessons could be learned from the investment component. They include:
a)   the successful implementation of the achievements of the forest inventory
component would be contingent on additional policy reform and capacity building
programs to improve the Government's capacity to enforce sustainable forest
management standards and improve processing efficiency. Without it, additional
support may result in even greater pressure for perverse behavior from the private
sector;
b)   in designing agroforestry and biodiversity conservation programs, more attention
should be devoted to local constraints and policy distortions underlying natural
resource degradation and forest depletion. Full recognition needs also to be given
to the opportunities for rural population to participate in forest management and
conservation activities. This means fully taking into account stakeholders' views
on socioeconomic and conservation constraints from the preparation stage;
c)   improving forest resources development and conservation would require drastic
changes in the structure of forestry institutions. As a result, there is an urgent need
for a detailed institutional study of the MEFCPT in order to redefine a new
governance framework, including contracting out certain functions such as
independent inspection of forest operations, inventory, design of management
plans, etc.;
d)   improving Government commitment to policy reform and implementation would
benefit from better donor coordination and the development of joint evaluation of
policy distortions and agreement on policy reforms;
e)    forestry development and biodiversity conservation recurrent costs should not
depend entirely on Government budget. As a result, identifying alternative sources
of long-term fumding (such as GEF, Debt for Nature Swap, Carbon Trade,
endowments for nature conservation, etc.) should be considered as financial
assistance options for the Government;
f)    securing participation and empowerment of key stakeholders at various stages in
the project cycle would be required to enhance project implementation efficiency
and sustainability of achievements; and finally,
g)   the importance of a sound national project management team  was clearly
demonstrated during project implementation. The absence of an effective financial
management system was, however, detrimental to the effective management and
monitoring of project activities.



- 15 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT (PARN)
(Cr. 2138-CA)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial      Negligibl   Not applicable
Macro Policies                        Ol             O                
Sector Policies                       O                              E                El
Financial Objectives                  O              E               0                E
Institutional Development             O              0               RI               E
Physical Objectives                   0              El              E ol
Poverty Reduction                     El             o               E                0
Gender Issues                         Ol                            O                E
Other Social Objectives               El            E0               E                El
Environmental Objectives              E                              El               El
Public Sector Management              E              O               0                E
Private Sector Development            E              O                                El
Other (specify)                       E              E               E                E



-16-
B. Project Sustainability      Likely             Unlikely            Uncertain
El)                 (E)                  (I)
C. Bank Performance             Highly
satisfactory    Satisfactory          Deficient
(/)                (1)                   (/)
Identification               El                  El                   Cl
Preparation Assistance       O                   El                   O
Appraisal                    a                                        0 E
Supervision                  0                   I                    a
Highly
D. Borrower Perfonnance             satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                         O            EIl          E
Implementation                       E           I            E
Covenant Compliance                 a            E            I
Operation (if applicable)            E           ElA          E
Highly                                  Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome      satisfactory Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
El)          I)         l(/)            (/)



-17-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title             Purpose        Approval       Status
Preceding Operations
1.  Livestock                Livestock                     1979       Completed
2.  Rural Development        Integrated rural development  1983
3.  National Livestock       Livestock development         1986
4.   SAL I                   Structural adjustment         1987
5.   SAL II                  Second structural adjustment  1988
6.   Cotton Sector Adjustment  Sector adjustment           1988
7.   SAL III                 Third structural adjustment   1990
Following Operations
1.  Ag. Services             Agricultural services         1992        On going
2.  National Livestock Dev.   Livestock development        1995



- 18 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date Actual /
Steps in Project Cycle     Date Planned         Latest Estimate
Identification                                   October 1988
Preparation                                      1989
Appraisal                          -             September 1989
Negotiations               March 1990            March-April 1990
Board presentation         May 15, 1990          May 22, 1990
Signing                    June 1990            June 20, 1990
Effectiveness              August 15, 1990      August 20, 1990
Project completion         June 30, 1995         December 31, 1996
Loan closing               December 31, 1995    June 30, 1997



- 19-
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year           FY91 FY92 FY93 FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98
Appraisal estimate         2.2   3.2   4.9   4.2   2.6   1.4   0.5   0
Cumulative                 2.2   5.4   10.3  14.5  17.1  18.5  19    19
Actual                     3.8   3.1   3.94  2.79  3.52   1.69  0.78  0.11
Cumulative                 3.82  6.92   10.86 13.65  17.17  18.86  19.64 19.75
Actual as % of estimate    174   128   105   94    100   102   103   104
Date of Final Disbursement    24 April 1998



-20 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation                                                           ACTUAL
Indicators in CAR                 ESTIMATED/PLANNED
1. Forest Inventory        1. Visual presentation of the potential  1. The entire southwest dense forest
Component                     of the southwest dense forest zone  zone, comprising 4.5 million ha, has
showing forest and non-forest      been inventoried.
areas, and differentiation of the
vegetation comprising the tree  2. Information is available on the
cover                              distribution of commercial and
secondary species and on the
2. Determination of the distribution of  available standing volume of each of
commercial and secondary species    the 300 types of vegetation identified.
and of the available standing
volume of each of the 300 types of   3. The potential and constraints of the
vegetation identified               dense forest zone have been presented
in visual form.
3. Introduction of an allocation plan
for the southwest dense forest zone   4. The allocation plan for the southwest
dense forest zone has been developed
4 Proposals for standards for a        and validated in the course of
management inventory, a forest      consultations.
utilization inventory, and a
sustainable development          5. A geographic information system for
intervention strategy               the dense forest zone is in place.
6. Standards for a management
inventory, a forest utilization
inventory, and a sustainable
management intervention strategy
have been devised.
7. A set of maps allowing study findings
to be presented in a clear and
systematic manner has been created.
8. Trained local staff are available to
ensure continuity of project
achievements.



- 21 -
Table 5 (continued): Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Key Implementation             Estimated/Planned                        Actual
Indicators in CAR
2. Agroforestry           1. Preparation of a management      1. The management inventory of the
Component                    inventory for the area around       area around Bangui has been carried
Bangui                             out and the findings have been
entered into a database.
2 Identification of the area's potential
and constraints                 2. A database of biophysical and
socioeconomic parameters of the zone
3. Establishment of a structure for the  and its inhabitants was developed.
area and organization of the local
population                      3. Agroforestry experiments have been
carried out and fruit trees and forest
4. Establishment of environmentally-  species have been planted.
friendly strategies for natural
resource utilization            4. The people have mastered nursery,
reforestation, agroforestry, and brush
5. Development of a master zone       fire prevention techniques.
management plan
5. The master zone management plan
6. Involvement of the local           has been validated in the course of
community in rational natural      consultations.
resource management
6. A structure for the area is in place and
the population has been organized
into natural resource management
committees (AGRNs).
7. Steps are being taken to involve the
community in rational natural
resources management.
8. The people of the area are very
attuned to the issues involved in the
rational management of their
environment and are taking
responsibility for managing their
natural resources.
9. A geographic information system for
the zone is in place.
10. Maps allowing study
findings to be presented in a clear
and systematic manner have been
prepared.
11. Trained local staff are available to
ensure continuity of project
achievements.



-22 -
Table 5 (continued): Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Key Implementation            Estimated/Planned                        Actual
Indicators in CAR
3. Institutional Support    1. Consolidation or introduction of  1. Legislation implementing the country's
Component                    an appropriate legal and         Forest Code has been promulgated.
regulatory framework
2. The forest sector audit has been
2. Restructuring of the Ministry of  completed and its recommendations
Environment, Water, Forests,     have been taken into account.
Hunting, and Fisheries and its
agencies                      3. The Ministry of Environment, Water,
Forests, Hunting, and Fisheries has been
3. Capacity building in central and  restructured.
field Forestry Service units
4. ONF, CNPAF, and OCATOUR have
4. Strengthening of the capacity of  been dissolved, and the Forest and
existing operators               Tourism Development Fund established.
5. Central and field Forestry Service
capacity has been strengthened (training,
equipment, infrastructure).
6. Support was provided for WWF as part
of the Dzanga-Sangha project (support
for conservation, management and
development of the Dzanga-Sangha
forest reserve).
4. Support for Wildlife   1. Support for management,       1. Eco-Guards have been recruited and
Protection Component         conservation and development    trained.
of the Dzanga-Sangha wildlife
and forest reserve           2. Infrastructure for monitoring reserves has
been established (trails, campsites)
3. Operators are working more effectively
following the introduction of mobile
facilities and communications units.
4. The new administrative infrastructure is
now in operation.
5. A tourist facility has been built and
provides lodging for tourists.
6. An electrified barrier to keep elephants
out of fields and forest plantations is
being tested.
7. A structure has been set in place and a
local NGO is on the scene.



- 23 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No specific indicators for project operation were established in the project concept
document.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Forest Inventory Component
AGROFORESTRY COMPONENT
*  Exploratory survey (providing general data) carried out  Inventorying activities resulted in preparation of the
in the zone's 30 villages, and report prepared.  following documents:
*  Exploratory survey (providing a diagnostic profile for   *  Sampling guide for reconnaissance inventories
each village) carried out in the zone's 30 villages, and
report prepared.                                *  Reconnaissance inventory verification guide
*  Socioeconomic household study conducted in 7 pilot    *  Tree study guide for reconnaissance inventories
villages and report prepared.
*  Territorial stratification standards using aerial
*  Survey of farms carried out and report prepared.     photographs at 1/20,000 scale
*  Agroeconomic study begun and report prepared.    *  Territorial stratification standards using aerial
photographs at 1/50,000 scale
*  Fuelwood study carried out and report prepared.
*  Management inventory standards for
*  Fuelwood subsector study carried out and report      exploitation and management permits (PEAs)
prepared;
*  Exploitation inventory standards for forest
*  Study conducted on marketing of fruit, vegetables, and  sampling sites (CFPs)
wood and non-wood fruit products in the area around
Bangui, and report prepared.                    *  Standards and action plan for sustainable
management of the country's forest ecosystems
*  Study carried out on clearing to create fields within
forests, and report prepared.                   *  Allocation plan for the southwest dense forest
zone
*  Inventory of plants carried out and report prepared.
*  Overview of findings of the southwest dense
*  Soil reconnaissance survey and report carried out.  forest inventory
*  Management inventory conducted and report prepared.  *  Inventory reports for each management unit
(total of 7)
.  Population census conducted in pilot villages and
report prepared.                                *  Inventory record for each management unit
*  Research conducted on improving arrangements for  *  Forest sector audit report.
processing and production of cassava



-24 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$M)                      (US$M) (a)
Local Foreign            Local   Foreign
Costs  Costs   Total    Costs   Costs   Total
Item
Institutional Strengthening  7.2    4.8    11.9   4.6    0.5    5.1
Forest Inventory        1.3    2.8      4.1       0.8   ---      0.8
Agro-Forestry Pilot     0.4    1.0       1.4      0.5    10.8   11.3
Forest Reserve Protection   0.7    0.9   1.6      2.0    0.5    2.5
Project Administration  0.3    1.0       1.3      0.7    0.02    0.72
Project Prep. Facility  0.0    0.7      0.7       0.0    0.7    0.7
Physical Contingencies  0.1    0.1      0.2       0.1    0.1    0.2
Price Contingencies      1.2    1.8     3.1        1.2    1.8    3.0
Sector Adjustment Cost    0.0    2.0    2.0       0.0    2.0    2.0
Total                   11.2   15.0    26.2       9.9    15.9   25.8
Note: (a) Actual as at July 1998
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source             Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)(a
(US$M)
IDA                                  19.00                        18.3
WWF                                  0.40                         0.40
Government                           6.85                         6.85
Total                                26.25                        25.55



- 25 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefit
(In US$ '000 Constant 1997 Prices)
The document "The Report and Recommendation of the President" which describes the
objectives, design and implementation of the project, and which serves as the main project
document, does not specify any expected Economic Rate of Return (ERR). Also, no ERR ex-
ante of the project could be calculated due to the non-availability of data on indicators of
development impact.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original Revised
Agree-             Covenant  Present Fulfilhme Fulfillment
ment        Section Type      Status  Date    Date        Description of Covenant                          Comments
Credit 2138  3.03    2        CD     12/31/91  12/01/93   Establish and maintain a forestry fund from proceeds of  Appropriate funding and management
forestry fees to defray costs of forestry wildlife and  require close supervision
tourism projects
3.05   6, 12     CP      06/30/91            Grant land use rights to farmers established in   The principal was enacted within the
forest sub-divisions                             Forestry Code but implementation did
not start
3.06   10        CP                          Project aircraft to be properly operated and maintained.   Plane was used and managed
Outside uses to be conditional on project priorities.  reasonably well.
3.07   10        C                           T.A. for wildlife sector management               Entrusted to WWF
4.01    1        C                           Project audits                                    Entrusted to Ernst and Young and
were regularly received
4.1    12        C                           Forestry Code and corresponding regulations       Had been enacted prior to disburse-
ment of the second tranche of the
quick disbursing component.



Table 10: Continued
Original Revised
Agree-                  Covenant  Present Fulfillme  Fulfillment
ment           Section Type          Status   Date        Date           Description of Covenant                                       Comments
Credit 2138   4.2        12          C                                   Dissolution of three government agencies                      Complied with
4.3      12           C                                  Reorganization and staffng of Ministry                        Implemented prior to disbursement
of second tranche
Covenant types:                                                                                                                              Present Status:
1. =     Accounts/audits                                         8. =    Indigenous people                                                  C   =    covenant complied with
2. =     Finan. performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries  9. =    Monitoring, review, and reporting                                 CP =    complied with partially
3. =     Flow and utilization of project funds                   10. =    Project implementation not covered by
categories 1-9
CD =    complied with after delay
4. =     Counterpart funding                                     11. =    Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other
resource allocation
NC =    not complied with
5. =     Management aspects of the project or executing agencyl2.  Sectoral or cross-sectoral
policy/regulatory/institutional action
6. =     Environmental covenants                                 13. =    Other
7. =     Involuntary resettlement



28 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The Project complied with all applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                          Actual
Project Cycle                           Staffweeks        US$(OOO)
Preparation to appraisal                   49.9             114.9
Appraisal                                  60.0             141.4
Negotiations through Board approval        06.2              15.6
Supervision                               132.4            408.8
Completion                                  6.2             20.9
Total                                     254.8            701.6



- 29 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Number   Days  Specialized   Performance Rating
Stage of          Month/         of         in     Staff Skills  Implem-  Development
Project Cycle      Year          Persons   Field  Represented  entation   Objectives   Types of
Status                Problems
Through Appraisal  9/89            4        1 ,    a, b, c, e                                                      I
Appraisal through   5/90           2        20    a, c          -
Board Approval
Board through      8/90            2        21    a, c, e       -
effectiveness                                    I
Supervision 1     4/91             2        12    a, c          I
Supervision 2     8/91             2        15    a, c          2         2            Procurement problems,
_________               Shortage of counterpart funds
Supervision 3      1/92            3        14    a, c, tree crop 2       1            Poor project management
specialist                          Legal covenant non-compliance
Supervision 4     6/92             3        16    a, e, forester  2       1            Poor project management
Supervision 5     3/93             2        14    a, d          2         2            Legal covenant non-compliance
Supervision 6     9/93             2        12    a, c          2         2            Counterpart funds, project
management
Supervision 7      1/94            2        15    a, forester    2        2            Poor performance of sector
adjustment program
Supervision 8     3/94             2        12    a, forester    2        2            Project management, legal
covenant non-compliance
Supervision 9     8/94             I        10    a             S         S            Budgetary constraints
Supervision 10    6/95             2        18    a, forester    S        S            Institutional development
10/95           3        18    a, d          S         S            Problems with the management
of the project plane
Supervision 1     12/95           2        16    a, forester    S        S            Institutional development
Supervision 12     3/96            2        10    a, d          S         S            Counterpart funds shortage
Supervision 13    6/96             2        18    a, forester    S        S            Political and civil strife
Supervision 14     8/96            2        6      a, c         S         S            Looting of project office
Supervision 15    7/97             1        14    Forester      S         U            Continuing political strife.
Suspension of project due to
. ____ l____ l______                       country  problems
Completion 3       n/a                                          n/a       n/a          n/a
Key to Staff Skills
a = Agriculturist/Agronomist              e = Operations/Res. Analyst
b = Financial Analyst                     f = Soil & Consv. Spslt.
c = Economist                             g = Women in Development
d = Extension Specialist.
Performance Rating:      1 = Highly Satisfactory   2 & S =  Satisfactory    3 & U =  Unsatisfactory
3 Political and civil strife in the country prevented the Bank's final supervision/completion mission from
taking place



-30 -
Appendix I
Page 1 of 4
Attentes de I'Emprunteur
En raison du resultat satisfaisant obtenu par le Projet d'Amenagement des
Ressources Naturelles (PARN) et des perspectives qu'il offre en matiere de politique
forestiere, d'amenagement, de la rentabilisation du secteur et aussi bien de la preservation
de la biodiversite, et de l'agro-foncier, l'Emprunteur, soucieux de promouvoir une
utilisation durable et rentable des ressources renouvelables du pays, notamment les
ressources forestieres, attache du prix A ce que les acquis de ce projet soient proteges,
renforces, valorises et capitalis6s dans des actions perennes de gestion durable.
En effet, Son Excellence Ange Felix Patasse, President de la Republique, Chef de
l'Etat, n'a de cesse de reiterer la volonte du Gouvemement Centrafricain de voir le PARN
devenir un important outil au service d'une politique de gestion rationnelle et durable de
nos diff6rentes ressources naturelles. Cette volonte politique a et r6affirmee a l'occasion
de la presentation officielle des resultats de la premiere phase du PARN dont le Chef de
l'Etat a rehausse de sa presence la ceremonie d'ouverture.  Tres agreablement
impressionne par les resultats obtenus par ce Projet vis-A-vis duquel il a toujours accorde
une attention particuliere, le President de la Republique avait d'ailleurs conclu son
intervention par un appel aux pays amis, aux Bailleurs de Fonds et aux ONGs, les invitant
A apporter dans un elan de solidarite leur appui aux fins de conjuguer leurs efforts pour le
financement de la deuxieme phase de ce projet.
Aussi faut-il noter, A la lumiere des efforts deployes depuis 1982, illustres par une
premiere etude du secteur forestier, un projet d'assistance technique qui s'est deroule en
deux phases: 1983-1985 et 1985-1989, avec comme finalite la mise en execution de ce
projet, qu'une fin sans suite et sans aucune assurance de p6rennisation, de renforcement et
de valorisation des importants acquis d6veloppes, ne pourra qu'inspirer un sentiment de
deception. On aura investi en temps et en argent pour rassembler des informations et
developper des capacites sans pour autant appuyer et accompagner les efforts visant leur
valorisation dans des actions concretes de facon A aboutir A un developpement qui
satisfasse les objectifs, A court, moyen et long terme de la societe centrafricaine.
Enfin, I'Emprunteur estime qu'il faudra, dans la perspective d'une eventuelle
deuxieme phase, insuffler au Projet une approche plus pragmatique et lui consacrer un
interet sous regional. Loin d'etre un investissement isole destine A repondre aux seules
attentes de la Societe Centrafricaine, les actions amorcees dans le cadre du PARN,
l'utilisation des resultats obtenus et A venir, les impacts attendus et les enseignements qui
s'y attellent peuvent egalement etre mis a contribution dans la perspective d'une
definition de politique forestiere dans l'ensemble du bassin du Congo.



- 31 -
Appendix 1
Page 2 of 4
Propositions d'Actions Futures
Afin de satisfaire aux attentes exprimees, les actions suivantes pourraient 8tre
envisagees:
I.1   COMPOSANTE APPUI A LA GESTION DES RESSOURCES FORESTIERES
1.1.  Volet Suivi Technique du Systeme de Gestion Forestiere
Dans le cadre de ce volet, il pourra s'agir de:
a) definir a partir des criteres a pr6ciser, la valeur economique de chaque unite
d'amenagement (cf. PARN) ou de chaque permis d'exploitation et
d'amenagement (PEA);
b) realiser une photographie adrienne du massif forestier du sud-ouest en vue de
la confection des plans d'amenagement des societes forestieres;
c) renforcer et documenter a partir des resultats d' inventaires d' amenagement
et/ou multiressource et ceux des inventaires d'exploitation, la base de donnees
numerique et cartographique du PARN,
d) visualiser (carte) a partir des donnees d'inventaire d'amrnagement ou
d'inventaire multi-ressources pour chacun des PEAs, la zone de production de
bois, les zones affect6es pour les besoins communautaires, les zones
d'ecologie fragile, les zones a haute valeur biologique, les habitats d'especes
rares et menacees et les lieux de culte ou les lieux sacres,
e) am6liorer et actualiser les connaissances sur les ecosystemes naturels,
f) visualiser a partir du plan d'amenagement accole a chaque PEA, les unites
forestieres d'amenagement UFP,
g) valider et suivre l'execution des plans d'amenagement inities par les prives
forestiers,
h) evaluer le niveau de quafite et de performance du systeme de gestion forestiere
de chaque entreprise au moyen d'un audit periodique,
i) reviser et mettre a jour les normes touchant la conduite des inventaires multi-
ressources selon les divers niveaux,
j) valider les plans d'amenagement proposes par les entreprises forestieres,
k) diffuser les produits cartographiques, les donnees d'inventaire et les rapports
de planification d'amenagement des ressources naturelles aupres des
utilisateurs,
1) favoriser le d6veloppement de nouvelles methodologies dans le domaine de la
collecte, du traitement et de la gestion des donnees a reference spatiale,
m) appuyer tout projet dans les domaines de sa competence.



- 32 -
Appendix 1
Page 3 of 4
1.2   Volet Foresterie Rurale
Dans le cadre de ce volet, il pourra etre question de:
a) appuyer les comites villageois dans l'execution du plan directeur
d'amenagement de la zone periurbaine de Bangui,
b) initier sur la base des experiences acquises dans la zone periurbaine de Bangui
un programme de foresterie rurale dans la zone p6riurbaine de Bangui,
c) organiser la filiere bois de feu dans la zone periurbaine de Bangui,
d) appuyer la population de la ville de Berberati a rehabiliter les reserves
forestieres periurbaines de Wouabere, de Loumi et de Banzoum, afin de
donner satisfaction aux attentes exprimees par ces populations lors des
consultations sur le plan d'affectation des terres,
e) appuyer les structures regionales du Ministere de l'Environnement, des Eaux,
Forets, Chasses et P8ches dans la mise en oeuvre d'un programme visant a
animer la mise en application des modalites de gestion defmies pour chacune
des unites de zonage proposee dans le plan d'affectation des terres.
1.3   Volet Appui au Fonctionnement du Ministere
Dans le cadre de cet appui institutionnel, les actions a mener pourraient etre les
suivantes:
a) appuyer le Ministere charge des forets dans la mise en place des reformes
institutionnelles et 1lgales en matiere de gestion durable des forets et de la
rentabilisation de leur exploitation,
b) poursuivre l'appui au fonctionnement et au renforcement des capacites des
structures du MEEFCP. Cet appui pourra beaucoup plus s'adresser aux zones
ecologiques hautement prioritaires (zone de la foret du sud-ouest, la zone
forestiere de Bangassou, les zones de peche le long de l'Oubangui et du Bar
Aouk),
c) cibler les capacites techniques (en terme de besoins de formation) a
developper en vue de l'atteinte des objectifs vises en matiere de gestion et
d'amenagement durable des ressources naturelles, mettre en place un
programme de formation et veiller a son execution,
d) appuyer la mise en execution du plan d'effectif du Ministere.
2.    COMPOSANTE APPUI AUX PRIVES DU SECTEUR FORESTIER
Dans le cadre de cette composante qui pourra s'executer a l'interieur d'un cadre
associatif Etat, Secteur Prive, ONG, Bailleurs de Fonds, il s'agira de:



- 33 -
Appendix 1
Page 4 of 4
a) appuyer les demarches entreprises par les prives forestiers dans la recherche
de fmancement des operations devant deboucher A la redaction des plans
d'amenagement des PEAs qui leur sont octroyes,
b) epauler les entreprises forestieres dans la recherche des financements en vue
de la modemisation de leurs unites de transformation dans la perspective
d'une fabrication des produits de deuxieme et troisieme transformation (SFI),
c) plaider sur le marche de bois tropicaux en faveur des produits provenant des
forets centrafricaines (label de qualite et label vert),
d) fournir aux prives toutes les informations interessant le developpement du
secteur,
e) apporter l'expertise d'appoint aupres des societes du secteur forestier,
f) oeuvrer en faveur du renforcement des capacites des employes du secteur en
vue de permettre une exploitation durable et une transformation efficace,
g) aider les societes forestieres A passer des systemes de gestion A rendement
soutenu, A des systemes de gestion durable,
h) encourager le Gouvemement et les entreprises forestieres A s'engager dans un
dialogue permanent en faveur d'une exploitation durable des ressources
forestieres,
i) aider a la mise en place de plan de gestion durable des forets et apporter un
appui en matiere de gestion financiere et commerciale,
j) promouvoir des activites portant sur les methodes d'exploitation forestiere
respectueuse de l'environnement,
k) contribuer A mettre en place un ensemble de directives et de principes pour
1' exploitation forestiere et la transformation du bois,
1) suivre et faire connaitre les progres accomplis dans l'application des directives
et des principes de gestion durable des forets.
3.    COMPOSANTE APPUI A LA PROTECTION DE LA FAUNE
Dans le cadre de cette composante, il pourra etre question de:
a) apporter un appui aux efforts de protection et d'amenagement du parc Dzanga-
Sangha,
b) appuyer la creation d'une aire protegee tri-nationale (Dzanga-Sanga en RCA,
Lobeke, Nki et Boumba-Bek au Cameroun, et Ndoki au Congo),
c) renforcer les mesures transnationales de luttre contre le braconnage,
d) soutenir les initiatives touristiques dans la sous-zone.



C~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~ H2                                                            _ -         i                         EUIQEC,'RFIAN                   hD  19 ,; D\ A N  CLIMATE, NATURAL VEGETATION, &  RAINFALL
N I G E R I A  jtz9                                                           s     ,0         ~/t                    _t jfsLo          *       t,U  ,VGT   i                  EAINV EAlNSfrfLL
v~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LMT VEEATO NAUEL ET PLUVIOMETRIE,                                                       ,70ff3 _N
)   C  A M E R OCO N  T! A   ,L/      2 (t_ '-                                                                                                                        , I I EEoA, I ELfl  DV IIO(IL
CAMEROON                                                                                                                                                                   11 C'ECI}Ii  / !-       z\ j  
B-g?.;:.                                         - ".  
| <, | ;0< X_4ANGU 
TH         17)                           ANDAA                               I       R                                                                        ,* # ,:':/...'^r.f.
ic_ j \- xb o , ~~~~~', '~~' '., ,,',^W".h,,,,,~~~~
-\ l'> / '--' .#5 '- o so 1~~~~~~~~00 5 0 5 0 ,$',IIIi .. ...,*
CAMEROON ~~~~~~                                  1300OL'  RP  \XKLOEESS .wR/,Wr;'
C69 OTHE OG  A0 SD lo 10002 ,>... .
QL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Alilr18



