Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4611
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA: LUSAKA SQUATTER UPGRADING AND SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
(LOAN 1057-ZA)
June 30, 1983
Eastern Africa Region
Urban Projects
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ZAMBIA
LUSAKA SQUATTER UPGRADING & SITE & SERVICES PROJECT
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFSC    American Friends Service Committee
FNDP    First National Development Plan
GRZ     Government of the Republic of Zambia
GTZ     German Agency for Technical Cooperation
HPU     Housing Project Unit
LUDC    Lusaka Urban District Council
NRA     National Housing Authority
O&M     Operations and Management
PLGAD   Provincial and Local Government Administration Division,
Office of the Prime Minister
SNDP    Second National Development Plan
TNDP    Third National Development Plan
UNICEF  United Nation's Children's Fund
Country Exchange Rates
(Averages for selected years)
Currency Unit = Kwacha (K)
1975    US$1 = K.64
1978    US$l = K.77
1980    US$1 = K.79



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA: LUSAKA SQUATTER UPGRADING AND SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
(Loan 1057-ZA)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface              ................................................                               i
Basic  Data  Sheet    .......................................    ii
Mission  Data    ...........                    ................................    iv
Highlights .               .............................................  v
I.                INTRODUCTION    ...........                     ................................                    I
A.        Sector  Background   .......................................                                       1
B.   Lusaka ..................................................  1
C.   The Project . .............................................  2
D.        Project  Achievements  and  Conclusions  ....................                                      3
II.               PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL .......   6
A.        Identification    ..........                      ...............................                  6
B.        Preparation  and  Appraisal   ...............................                                      6
III.              IMPLEMENTATION    ..........                      ...............................   10
A.        Effectiveness  and  Start-up  ..............................    10
B.       Progress  of  Physical  Works  .............................                                      ' 11
C.        Progress  of  Non-physical  Program  ........................    13
IV.               OPERATING  PERFORMANCE   ...........                        ........................    19
A.        Performance  of  Consultants   ........                         ......................    19
B.       Performance  of  Contractors  ........                           ......................    19
C.        Performance  of  Suppliers   .........                        .......................   19
D.        Performance  of  Standards  Used  .......                           ....................    19
E.        Reporting   ..............................................                                        20
F.       Compliance  with  Covenants  .........                           ......................   20
V.                FINANCIAL  PERFORMANCE   ...........                        ........................    21
A.        Pricing  ..............................................                                           21
B.   Cost Recovery ............................................ 22
C.       Financial  Position  of  LUDC  ........                          ......................   22
VI.               INSTITUTIONAL  PERFORMANCE  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ....                                ...........   24
A.        Central  Government  Agencies   ........                          .....................   24
B.       Lusaka  Urban  District  Council   .......                           ....................   25
C.       The  Housing  Project  Unit  .........                         .......................   25
D.   Role of Expatriates . ..................................... 26
E.        Overall  Project  Coordination  .......                           .....................    27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
VII.       ECONOMIC REEVALUATION ............ .......................  28
A.    Rate of Return ...........................................  28
B.    Poverty Impact ...........................................  30
VILE.      PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK AND OTHER DONORS ....     ............ 30
A.    Performance of the Bank ..........    .......................  30
B.    Performance of UNICEF and AFSC  ......     ................... 30
IX.        LESSONS LEARNED ......................................... 32
ANNEXES
1.         Grouping of Civil Works Contracts and Details of Cost Increases
2.         On Site Servicing Standards Built and Proposed
3.         LUDC Finances
4.         Economic Reevaluation
CHARTS
1.         Construction Schedule at Appraisal and Actual
2.         Schedule of Disbursements
MAPS
This report was prepared by Faye Johnson, with assistance from
Laurence Clarke, Sarah Wakeham (Consultant) and Harcharan Mangat
(Consultant).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA: Lusaka Squatter Upgrading and Sites and Services Project
(Loan 1057-ZA)
PREFACE
Loan 1057-ZA for the Lusaka Squatter Upgrading and Sites and
Services Project was signed in July 1974.  The final disbursement of the
proceeds of the loan for $20 million was made in October 1981 and the
balance  of $717.41 was cancelled.   During implementation, the project's
content was revised and the Closing Date was postponed.
This Project Completion Report (PCR) was prepared by Urban
Development Division of the Eastern Africa Projects Department.   It is
based on a review of files and documents, interviews with Bank and Borrower
staff and a visit to Zambia in June 1981.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this Completion Report was read by the Operations Evalu-
tion Department but the project was not audited by OED staff. The draft
Completion Report was sent to the Borrower; however, no comments were
received.



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         z                                                       I
I



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA: LUSAKA SQUATTER UPGRADING AND
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
(LOAN 1057-ZA)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Actual as
% of
Appraisal               Appraisal
Estimate      Actual    Estimate
Project Cost (US$ million)                     41.27        41.8 1/      101
Credit Amount (US$ million)                        20           20       100
Date of Board Approval                       10/15/74       07/05/74       -
Date of Effectiveness                        04/07/75       04/01/75       -
Date Physical Components Completed           09/30/77       07/30/81       -
Proportion then completed (%)                 -              98          -
Closing Date                                 12/31/79        12/31/81      -
Economic Rate of Return (%) 2/               12-28              18         -
Financial Performance 3/                     Good           Fair           -
Institutional Performance                    Good           Fair           -
Number of Direct Beneficiaries (1981)        28,850         31,355       109
/  As of 12/31/80 converted at an average rate of US$1=KO.78.  The project
was scaled down to exclude the schools component which was transferred
to the Education Project.  Other community facilities were also reduced
as a result of anticipated cost overruns.
2/  Rates were calculated for individual.sites at appraisal.  The exercise
was repeated, and a weighted average calculated for the reevaluation.
3/  A financial rate of return was not calculated at appraisal.



>   .                                                                                                              w               t                                           *              x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- iii -
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower:                 The Government of the Republic of Zambia
Executing Agency:         Lusaka City Council (Housing Project Unit)
Fiscal Year:              January 1 to December 31
Name of Currency (abbreviation) Zambian Kwacha (K)
Currency Exchange Rates:
Appraisal Year Average (1975) US$1.00 = KO.65
Intervening Years Average  (1976)  US$1.00 = KO.79
(1977)  US$1.00 = KO.76
(1978)  US$1.00 = KO.79
(1979)  US$1.00 = KO.78
(1980)  US$1.00 = KO.81
Completion Year Average    (1981)  US$1.00 = KO.88
Follow-on Project:
None. A possible second project is being discussed.
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY75  FY76  FY77  FY78  FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82
Appraisal Estimate
(US$ million)                2.25  9.68  16.14 18.74  20
Actual
(US$ million)                 .08  2.30   5.64 10.52 15.77 19.30 19.30  20
Actual as % of estimate:          4    24       35    56    79    97    97 100
Date of final disbursement:10/31/81
Principal repaid to 5/11/83 (US$ millions equivalent): 2.0



I                                I
I                                                                                                                                      I



- iv -
ZAMBIA
LUSAKA SQUATTER UPGRADINC AND SITE AND SERVICES PRCJECT
Mission Data
Persorr-
No. of   days       Specializatiorsl/  Perfonrance2/
Mission               Month/Year  Persons  in field   Represented          Rating        Trend3/ Problems4/
Identification          11/72         1           2                1
Preparation              3/73         3          42            1,1,2
Appraisal                8/73         7         147    1,1,5,3,2,4,4            -          -          -
Post-Appraisal          10/73         1           2                4            -                     -
TOTAL                                           19 3
Supervision I            9/74         4          32          1,5,2,1            2          2
Supervision II          11/74         3          12            1,2,6            2          2          T
Supervision III          3/75         4          51          1,5,2,1            1          2          T
Supervision IV           9/75         3          30            1,5,2            2          2          04/
Supervision V            2/76         2          26              1,2            2          1          P
Supervision VI           7/76         2.         40              1,2            2          1          04/
Supervision VII          2/77         1          10                2            3          1      F,P,05
Supervision VIII         7/77         2          20              2,1            2          1        P,/
Sueprvision IX           6/78         3          27             n.a.            2          1        P,O/
Supervision X            2/79         2          18              2,4            2          2   P,M,0,16/
Supervision XI           7/79         2          20              2,4            3          2   F,P,M,T
Supervision XII         11/79         2          18              2,4            3          3    F,P,M,T
Supervision XIII         3/80         1           7                4            3          1      F,M,P
Supervision XIV         10/80         2          20              4,7            3          1      F,M,P
Supervision XV           2/81         3          31            4,7,7            3          1        F,P
Supervision XVI/PCR      6/81         5         120        4,8,7,7,2            2          1      F,P,M
TOL                                             482
1l  1 = Econcmnist; 2 = Engineer; 3 = land Econonist; 4 = Financial Analyst; 5 = Urhan Affairs Specialist;
6 = Procurement Specialist; 7 = Urban Planner; 8 = Architect/Ardiitect Planner.
2/  1 = Improving; 2 = Stationary; 3 = Deteriorating.
/ F = Finanaal; M = Mnagerial; T = Tecmical; P = Political; 0 = Other.
4/ Problens due to unavailability of foreign excdange.
_/ Problems due to unavailability of foreign exchange, inadequate budgtary allocation ard delays in lard
acquisition.
6/ Unavailability of foreign exchange, delays in land acquisition, poor organization of contractors ard
abnormal rains.
^ The Education Cinponent was supervised by the Education Division along with their 1st, 2nd and 3rd projects
(Loans 592-ZA, 645-ZA and 900-ZA).
This project campletion report is based on infonnation in Appraisal Report No. 42C1-ZA, as well as
Supervision, Quarterly and Consultants reports, official project correspondence files, discussions wLth former
and present Bark staff and Government officials and field mission findings.



I



.~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA: Lusaka Squatter Upgrading and Site and Services Project
Loan 1057-ZA
HIGHLIGHTS
The Lusaka Squatter Upgrading and Sites and Services Project was
one of the Bank's first urban projects in Africa.   It was also the first
externally-financed low-cost shelter project to be undertaken in Zambia.
The project was undertaken in Lusaka mainly because it was the largest and
fastest growing city in Zambia and had the most pressing shelter problems.
In addition to physical targets, designed to address the needs of the city,
the project was to influence national shelter policies by demonstrating the
feasibility of designing low-cost shelter and infrastructure programs
affordable to low income households.   It was also to have strengthened the
City Council's planning and execution capability for similar projects in
the future.
In order to achieve the abovementioned objectives the project in-
cluded provision of infrastructure for squatter upgrading, as well as the
development of sites and services plots for residential as well as commer-
cial or industrial use; building material loans for housing improvement and
construction; community facilities; and, technical assistance for project
unit operations, construction supervision, community development training,
further project  preparation and undertaking  studies.   A special project
unit was created within the City Council to implement the project.   The
American Friends Service Committee (AFSC) and the United Nations Children's
Fund (UNICEF) assisted in the financing and implementation of the project.
While the project was underway the Zambian Government experienced
an acute financial crisis which led to delays, cost overruns and, eventual-
ly, cutbacks in the original plan.   Nevertheless, much was accomplished;
over 31,000 plots--accommodating approximately 30 percent of Lusaka's popu-
lation--were  provided  with  basic  infrastructure;  half  the  sites  and
services units were allocated to low-income households--the poorest 40 per-
cent of the population; upgrading reached over 90 percent of the households
in the targeted area; plots and loans were allocated according to a point
system which favored the poorest residents; and houses built under the
project cost approximately one tenth of the amount required under conven-
tional schemes.
Once the project was completed, the special project unit created
for its implementation was disbanded. A new unit, which is a more integral
part of the council structure has been created to take its place.   This
unit continues to use the approaches and techniques which were developed by
its predecessor in new areas of the city.  The sites and services approach
has also been endorsed in the Third National Development Plan (1979 to
1983).



I
I
I



- vi -
Aspects of the project implementation experience that may be of
special interest are:
-  the difficulty in arriving at a suitable project size--while
the need to demonstrate new approaches may suggest a modest-
sized project in terms of physical outputs, the complementary
administrative systems need to be tested and demonstrated at a
much larger scale. (PCR, paras. 2.04, 2.09, 3.12, 4.02, 6.01-
6.14, 9.01)
-  the system of participation which permeated all aspects of the
project, which is widely acknowledged as having contributed to
its success. (PCR, paras. 2.13, 2.14, 3.31-3.33, 9.01)
-  the persistence of the traditional problems of land acquisi-
tion despite government-ownership of all land.   (PCR, paras.
2.08, 3.09, 3.21-3.30, 9.01)
-  the complexity of the cost recovery issue, which has not yet
been resolved. (PCR, paras. 1.10, 2.06, 5.03, 5.04 and 9.01).



I



I. INTRODUCTION
A. Sector Background
1.01        At the time of Independence  (1964) Zambia was the second  most
urbanized country in Africa south of the Sahara with approximately 20% of
its population of 3.5 million living in urban areas, as opposed to 12% in
the rest of the continent.  Following Independence the rate of urban growth
increased significantly as new jobs were created and restrictions on move-
ment lifted and by 1971 over 30% of its population was urban.  The system
under which employers were responsible for housing their employees also
proved to be unable to cope with overall growth and the development of the
informal sector.   Embryonic illegal settlements established  on the  peri-
phery of the colonial centers mushroomed.  Initially the Government of the
Republic of Zambia (GRZ) hoped that these areas could be removed and their
residents resettled elsewhere so urban services and utilities were not pro-
vided. When the cost of this alternative was explored and found to be un-
affordable, new approaches  to  the  provision  of urban  shelter had  to be
sought.
1.02       By 1966 GRZ had adopted the site and services approach. Whereas
the First Development Plan (FNDP)(1966-1970) allocated only 30% of all
housing funds to this mode of development, the Second National Development
Plan (SNDP) (1972-1976) presented this approach and that of squatter devel-
opment as the exclusive vehicle for public sector involvement in housing
development.   Against an estimated  need  for 85,000 new  urban  dwellings
during the SNDP period however, the target set was to provide only 70,000
serviced plots.  At the time of project identification in 1973 very little
had been achieved as a result of: (i) Financial constraints. Scarce finan-
cial resources which had dictated the modest targets had become even more
constrained because of falling copper prices and a slowing down of overall
economic activity; (ii)  Implementation capacity.   Zambia had very  little
experience in this area and lacked the personnel and general know-how for
designing,  preparing  and  delivering  services  of  this  nature;  (iii)
Inappropriate standards. Under the SNDP the GRZ indicated its intention to
abandon  the use  of  "basic"  plots  and  to develop  only  "normal"1/ sites,
following its experience with both under the FNDP.  This meant that plot
costs were inevitably high and affordable  to few Zambians.  Existing land
legislation also required a large number of highly qualified personnel who
were not available  in Zambia at the  time.   GRZ approached  the Bank for
assistance.
B. Lusaka
1.03          Founded  as a railway  siding  in 1905, Lusaka had  become  the
capital of Zambia (then Northern Rhodesia) in 1931.  By 1973 Lusaka had a
population of some 381,000 and was growing at an annual rate of over 13%.
1 / Basic plots utilized pit latrines and communal water services and were
generally smaller than normal plots which had water-borne sewer
facilities and individual water taps.



-2-
It was chosen for implementation of the first project mainly because it was
the largest and fastest growing city in Zambia and had the most pressing
problems of urban shelter.    Work had already been undertaken on a Master
Plan for Lusaka and so there was also a significant amount of information,
including aerial photography and socio-economic and physical surveys, which
was  not  available  for  other  centers.    Furthermore,  although  the  City
Council was very inadequately staffed, technical and community development
personnel were available in other public agencies in Lusaka to augment City
Council resources.
C. The Project
1.04        The project, which was prepared.by the GRZ and the Lusaka City
Council, now Lusaka Urban District Council (LUDC), was appraised in August
and September 1973.   The Bank loan (1057 ZA) was approved bDy the Bank in
July 1974 and became effective in April 1975.   The project, as appraised
consisted of:
(a)  upgrading  and  servicing  of 1,700 dwellings  in four  major
settlements;
(b)  preparing  of  12,000  residential  plots  (7,600  in  three
overspill areas adjacent to upgraded settlements and 4,400
in six sites).   All were designated  for site and services
development, with the provision of primary infrastructure
such as water, sewerage and roads;
(c)   provision of building material loans  for housing improve-
ment and construction;
(d)    construction  of  related  community  facilities  including
schools,  health  clinics,  multipurpose  coommunity  centers
markets and demonstration houses; and
(e)     provision  of  technical  assistance  for  project  unit
operations, construction supervision,  community development
training,  further  project  preparation  and  undertaking  of
studies.
1.05        In addition to the physical targets outlined above, the project
was to demonstrate the feasibility of designing low-cost shelter and infra-
structure programs affordable to low-income households and to thus in-
fluence national shelter policies.
1.06       It was estimated at appraisal that the total cost would be appro-
ximately K26.5 (US$41.2 million). The Bank loan of US$20.00 million was to
finance the foreign exchange costs, which were then estimated to be 33% of
total costs, and about 23% of local costs.   The United Nations Children's
Fund (UNICEF) and the American Friends Service Committee (AFSC) were to
make a contribution amounting to less than 5% of the total project costs.
The funds were to be onlent to LUDC along with GRZts own contribution under
a subsidiary Loan Agreement.



-3-
1.07         Because of the innovative nature of the project a systematic
evaluation of its effects was funded by the International Development Re-
search Center of Canada and the World Bank. An Evaluation Team was attach-
ed to the PLGAD for this purpose.  The findings and analysis of these ef-
forts are set out in detail in a separate report.2/  A sector survey was
also conducted in parallel with the upgrading and site and services project
and evaluation exercise, to evaluate the need for and potential of projects
in other urban centers to complement the government's priority objective of
rural development.3/
D. Project Achievements and Conclusions
1.08        The project implementation period proved to be one of the most
difficult  periods  in Zambian  economic  history.   A  40%  drop  in  copper
prices4/ followed by significant reductions in copper output at a time
when the effects of the international oil crisis were also being felt led
to six consecutive years of financial hardship beginning 1975.  Political
and military strife in Angola, Zaire and Zimbabwe were also costly and in-
creased Zambia's need for defense expenditures and disrupted access routes
to the sea and the pattern and cost of importing and exporting.  Total for-
mal sector employment stagnated throughout most of the period and inflation
was rapid, reaching a high of 20 percent in 1978.  The Kwacha was also de-
valued twice during the period.
1.09       Despite the difficulties outlined above, the project was substanr-
tially implemented as planned (Table 1) and was physically one of the most
successful first generation urban projects that the Bank has financed. Due
to the ongoing evaluation exercise and monitoring conducted by the project
unit itself, all project modifications necessitated by cost overruns and
shortages of local counterpart funds were based on earlier actual project
experience and therefore did not jeopardize achievement of project goals.
1.10        The project has also contributed significantly to the eventual
elimination of the constraints identified above in the following ways:
Financial Constraints:  Although cost recovery under the project
has been very poor to date, the importance of financial replicability and
of levying and collecting of user-charges have been acknowledged by the
Government. As a result of the project experience studies of the status of
2/ Sanyal, B. et al. "Final Report on the Evaluation of the First Lusaka
Upgrading and Site and Services Project" World Bank 1981.
3/  "Urban Sector Survey:  Republic of Zambia" World Bank 1976 Report No.
490-ZA.
4/    Copper  has  historically  provided  over  95%  of  Zambia's  export
earnings.



-4-
ZAMBIA
LUSAKA SQUATTER UPGRADING AND SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
Table 1: Appraisal Targets and Project Achievements
.,praisaJ.      AC±ieVetenet      Achievement as
.arKsc       at 3f i/91)            if 7arzc
A    hvslcal :Lamt ation
1.  .Asidenti. unit:s  esovcad
(dwellings or plots) -'
a.  Squat:er Upgrading                  .692A,           !9916                  liS
h.  Overepill aras                       '588             7775                  '02
e    h hasd   trsl. (basic) 3ites         ' 97             974                   81
d.  :iornl low-cost Si_-                 1204             1188                   99
e   '4ormal. mdiua cost sites            :938             1503                   77
TOTAL                               28851            11355                 109
2.  Cocmmit  Facilitlafs
(Number copleced)
a.  Schools -/                             la                8 
b.  Rsalth Centers                          3                3                  :00
c.  Xarkvt  fc/        d/17                                                      15
d.  Cou rity Centersd                      17                7 -1
B.  socio-Eonoiic t  roveranc
1.  Rsidenial Units allocated
(dwellings or p1cca) *1
a.  squacttr upgradig                   16924            19916                 118
b.  Overspill Arta                       7588             5550                  73
c.  Phased ercml (basic sits            L197              a8S                   74
d.  .ornal ow-cost sites                 120i             l8SS                  99
a.  S4ora. mndiu-cosr sites              1938              587                  30
2. Allocation of Site and Soerica-
Plot to target Crouc (Noo of
plots v Z of total dev4loped
plOcS) S/
. 8 of plots allocated to houaaholds
eagmjsg I1e  than X70 per mobt        50:               20
b. S4o. of plotes alcated to households
earain. Iwo tha  MM per mnch.   on-                   224fr
c. 3ht of plot, allocated to households
earning mrr than  M0  per mouth.   on                  174
3.  Cora 7nits Zrecteddl~o. of Ucie)
a  Ovepill ares-                         7588            4277                   56
bo  Sit. and services areas-            4339              L823                  42
4.  3u1Iding lacs5tral Loans          ti  5,609,000    4,474,000                    79
Total value of materials issued -
ai/  Number of residetl -units serviced in scuatter upnradins area  incrased by 2,992 because
of population grovth in al four sites and also because of boundary adjustnts on on  ice de.
Nec cha-   of 187 plots in oersu     areas dun to boundary sdjuacnc (+325) and advers soil
conditic   (-L38).  Z23 n;o4 re   c dvlooed because by the- time develop_nt
wes to taka place 12 plSts had bee  occupied by comercial premises; 48 were encroached upon by
high tension vires and 163 hsd beom utilized for a housing estate.  16 normal lo, cosc sites were
uwed for coastrucrion of a site offica and building macerial store.  There was a nec lose of
435 normal medium cost plots because of the presence of a high water cable on site 6 (-530) mot
utilization of a portion of che itis for a school and church (-5). Site 7 we subactIuted for
site 8 resulting in an initial gain of Z62 plats and a loss of 162 plots due to revisions in
the- layout necesitaced by the presence of squatters.
k/  twelve schools wre  trausferr&d to Educacion  =  (the World Snk funded Zducacion Prolecc)
because of coat orvrrtm
/  Additional markcae  are being built by the comuites th-.lvce.  The mdification is based
on project experience vhicb indicates chet commities can and will build markets !or chaeelves.
8/  Cencers built to date have not been fully utilized.  G22 believes that commnities should build
thehs facilities by sadl-help and has therafore accorded then a lov prioritT In term  of
provision of funds. Eevluation studies have also shown that ,he coities accord then a low
priority as wall. The project ncdificatiom is therefore based on expertence.
I/  Total number of plots developed  htich are to be allocated for residential us.  have been -educed
by 1.055 because of adverse soil conditicon (875 overspill plots), utilization of the area serviced
'or coity  facilities (125 overspill plats, 5 norml medium est  site and servicas plotac)and
deaiguation as business plots (50 overasill plots). 1,175 overspill. 36 phased normsl and qul
normal zadius cost plocs remain to be allocated by the Pen-Urban Area  Unit.
ff  Icom  ceiling  criteria dropped for rtniniag plots which sre located on the  eosc distant site
and for which d and is limited.
I/  Income limits pertodically increased with 3ank. concurrwnce to reflect increase  in costa and, to
some dagrae. incomes.
bL  This indicator refers to th- basc haitable ctw-cu cores only.  %amy have bean es:ended.
t/  So_ [2 million worth of building materials purchasad remin to be loaned out to plot allottes.



-5-
municipal finances5! and the incidence and magnitude of subsidies in the
housing sector6/ have been conducted and are being utilized for planning
purposes.The difficulties in the collection of charges levied have also
been highlighted and steps are being taken to mechanize the system to make
it more effective.
Implementation Capacity:   The capacity of the LUDC to implement
similar programs has been enhanced through the creation of a new unit, the
peri-urban areas unit, which is currently responsible for continuing the
HPU's work in project areas while undertaking the upgrading of a new area,
Kalingalinga, utilizing methods similar to those developed under the proj-
ect, with funds from the German Government.  A number of former senior HPU
staff members have also Joined the NHA, thus enhancing its capability in
its capacity as consultant to local authorities, especially in its on-going
European Development Fund financed secondary towns project.   AFSC person-
nel, who are still working with the LUDC, have also indicated that they
have improved their appreciation of major issues such as affordability
through their involvement with the project.
Inappropriate standards: The project has demonstrated the feasi-
bility of designing truly low cost shelter and infrastructure programs
affordable to low income households.   The findings of the evaluation study
also indicate that project beneficiaries are satisfied with the shelter
thus provided. The Third National Development Plan (TNDP) reflects a re-
newed commitment to the progressive upgrading model and speaks of the de-
velopment of "settlement plots" rather than "low-cost" housing.
5/ Lynch, E.J..F. "Zambian Local Government Finance" World Bank 1980.
6/ Dinh Hlinh and Sanyal B. "Housing Subsidies in the Public Sector in
Zambia" World Bank 1980.



-6-
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. Identification
2.01        When representatives of the Transportation and Urban Projects
Department visited Zambia in 1972 as part of a mission to review and
evaluate the international experience with site and services development
GRZ had already defined a housing program in its SNDP and mor2 detailed
work had been done in Lusaka by consultants appointed by the Government.
Although implementation was considerably behind schedule the Bank felt tha
the program was soundly-based, reasonably well managed and deserved Bank
support.  The government's official request for assistance, which was re-
ceived shortly thereafter was therefore favorably considered and the forma
process of definition of a project suitable for Bank participation got
underway.
B. Preparation and Appraisal
2.02       During subsequent identification missions the Bank reviewed the
SNDP program, the Lusaka Master Plan and related development proposals.
They also reviewed the prior experience with similar projects especially i
Ndola where a significant number of basic plots had been developed, in
Chawama and Kafue where the AFSC had an ongoing experimental community
self-help scheme and a small upgrading scheme in Livingstone.
2.03         The project proposal was prepared primarily by the National
Housing Authority (NHA) which already had considerable experience in the
preparation of site and services schemes and a well-staffed Improvement
Division which was assisting local authorities throughout the country in
the development of upgrading proposals.  The Community Development compo-
nents of the proposal were prepared by the United Nations Childrenst Fund
(UNICEF) and the American Friends Service Committee (AFSC).   UNICEF was
particularly interested in the welfare of children in squatter communities
in Zambia and the AFSC was already involved in a self-help project in
Kafue. Both agencies had expressed an early interest in participating in
the project and brought their intimate knowledge, based on their previous
experience, to bear on the proposal.
2.04      The report which was submitted to the Bank in August 1973 was a
very detailed and well-prepared five-volumed report.  It presented propo-
sals for improving the housirng standards for over 35,000 households (48% o
Lusaka's population) through the provision of:   (i) serviced plots with
water supply and sewerage connections to be taken a short distance inside
each plot for subsequent individual connections, security  Lighting and a
combination of tarred and gravelled roads.  Capital cost per plot was esti
mated at K450 implying a monthly charge of K8.14; (ii) upgrading was pro-
posed for "Urban" and "Rural" settlements.  In the urban settlements, pipe
water was to be provided at a standard of one standpipe per 25 dwelling
units with densities reduced through relocation to Overspill areas adjacen
to existing settlements.   Standards in these overspill areas were to have
been the same as those in the upgraded areas.  Proposed capital costs were
estimated at an average of K195 and K37 per house for urban and rural
settlement respectively and monthly charges were estimated at K3.45 and Kl



-7-
(iii) proposals for infrastructure included a new main from the central
reservoir, construction of a new sewage treatment plant in the northern
section of the city, expansion of the capacity of the treatment plant in
the western section of the city and various lengths of roads and other
works; (iv) building material loans of K200 for house improvement in
squatter  areas  and  K300  to  K1,000  in  site  and  services  areas  were
proposed.Monthly repayments were estimated at K1.85 for a K200 loan, K2.75
for K300 and K7.36 for a K1,000 loan.   A community development component
was  included  to  assure  the  cooperation  of  residents  and  to  teach
participants  the  skills  needed   for  self-help.          A  small  support
communications unit was also proposed to facilitate the flow of information
between the various actors involved and with the rest of society.
2.05        The Bank was concerned about the issues of (i) cost recovery;
(ii) inappropriate standards; (iii) the inadequacy of the existing frame-
work for delivery of tenure; (iv) the size of the building material loans
proposed; (v) the status of the finances of the LUDC which would bear the
brunt of the financial burden of the project; (vi) the use of community
self-help in the upgrading process; and (vii) inclusion of the support com-
munications  unit.    These  issues  were  the  subject  of  often-heated  but
generally productive debate as the Bank felt that their resolution was
essential for successful project implementation and the achievement of
established goals.
2.06           Cost Recovery.   Prior to the Bank's  involvement,  site and
services development was funded through a system of grants to local autho-
rities, who in turn lent with little incentive for the borrower to repay.
Collections were also poor and the situation in relation to housing rental
had been aggravated by the passage of the Rent Act in 1972 which made it
difficult for councils to evict tenants who were not paying their rents.
This system was contrary to national priorities which favored development
of the agricultural sector, and, in itself did not provide the basis for a
replicable  program  for  housing  development.    The  Bank  advocated  the
substitution of loans for grants and improvements in collections from
beneficiaries through the use of various incentives and disincentives and
systems such as deductions at source by employers.   Substantial agreement
was arrived at on the principle and a covenant was subsequently included in
the legal documents requiring the LUDC to make appropriate provisions for
the recovery of plot servicing charges.
2.07        Standards.   The issue of standards was mainly focussed on the
definition of an appropriate plot size and building by-laws.   The Bank,
concerned that a large plot size would lead to increased servicing costs
and eventual urban sprawl, considered a standard plot of 324m2 as contained
in the project proposal, to be larger than optimal.  Building by-laws also
rigidly defined construction standards which were unaffordable to the
majority of Lusaka's residents.   The Bank pointed out that the standards
implied that the project would effectively exclude those earning less than
K23 per month who then made up 16% of the population, they stressed the
technical feasibility of progressive upgrading of basic sites and constant-
ly spelt out the implications of alternative standards on affordability of
the project to the poor.   Basic plots were eventually included on an ex-
perimental basis in the overspill areas and one site and services area only



and  the GR7  agreed to review the experience with an eye  Lo revising its
standards if the smaller size plots proved inadequate. Some of the nmre
stringent building by-laws were also waived to allow the use of traditional
building materials.
2.08       Land Tenure.  The Land Survey and Registration system in effect
at the time of project preparation required a degree of accuracy which only
highly qualified surveyors could accomplish.   Only four expatriates and no
local professionals in Zambia were suitably qualified, whereas achievement
of the housing goals under the SNDP, required a rapid output of secure
tenure arrangements  and  the  simplification of registry  techniques.   New
legislation was already being written, but the process had become bogged
down.   The Bank was also concerned that the length of tenure being consi-
dered in the provisions of this legislation might not be adequate for
implementation  of  the  proposed  project  and  felt  that  its  expiditious
passage as well as its content were critical for project implementation.
The Bank therefore suggested the use of a tenure period long enough to
cover the loan repayment periods and urged the Borrower to expedite passage
of  the legislation.   Slow progress led  to its passage and effectiveness
being made conditions of loan effectiveness.  The Bank's understanding also
that (i) tenure under the new Housing Act would be for at least 25 years in
upgraded areas and at least 30 years in Site and Services areas, and (ii)
registration procedures would be simplified were recorded in side letters.
2.09       Project Size and Implementation Capacity.  Limited implementation
capacity in Local Authorities was seen as a major constraint to implementa-
tion of the SNDP housing program.   Both the PLGAI and the Bank felt that a
major thrust was needed to get the project going and that a special unit
would have to be established for this and that the agency most likely to be
able to undertake the responsibility was the NHA.   However, the LUDC made
it clear from the outset that they felt the provision of housing in Lusaka
was their statutory responsibility and that their cooperation would not be
readily  forthcoming  should  the unit not be attached  to them.   The Bank
agreed to this but required that steps be taken to strengthen LUDC opera-
tions.  The legal covenants therefore required the Council to carry out (i)
an Operations and Management Study with a view to i½proving its operations
in general,  and  (ii) a Water Management and Tariff Study to improve the
operations of its water and sewerage department.   Loan effectiveness was
also conditioned on the appointment of the Project Director and the Heads
of the three departments of the Project Unit.
2.10       In addition, arrangements made during appraisal for implementa-
tion of the project were: (i) the project director was to be given senior
officer status within the LUDC; (ii) the council's decision making process
was to be shortened for the project, and the director would report to the
Finance and General Purposes Committee only; (iii) extra salaries and
perquisites were attached to key posts to attract qualified and experienced
personnel on contract; (iv) an interagency committee was established to
ensure coordination of the inputs of the various agencies involved.



9
2.11       Building Material Loans.  The size of building material loans was
scaled down on the basis of the Bank's suggestion that the possible use of
alternative technologies and materials should be considered and that the
additional monthly payments that beneficiaries would have to pay in addi-
tion to their service charges should also be borne in mind.
2.12       Financial Status of the LUDC.  The LUDC, accustomed to receiving
grants from the GRZ had no experience with economic pricing and was deli-
vering much of its services at a highly subsidized rate.  GRZ grants had
however been declining in relation to the city's needs as the price for
copper was falling.   The Bank foresaw a financial crisis in the Council,
unless appropriate steps were taken to remedy the situation.  Covenants in-
cluded in the legal documents therefore required (i) a revaluation of pro-
perty within LUDC's jurisdiction and effectiveness of the revised rates by
January 1, 1977; (ii) on the basis of the Water Management and Tariff
studies, the institution of a water management program including metering
and training which was to be prepared in consultation with the Bank, and
(iii) consultation with the Bank before construction of the third stage of
the Kafue water supply scheme.
2.13       Community self-help.  The project proposal included provision for
the communities to participate physically in the upgrading process but the
Bank was concerned that this could jeopardize the timely implementation of
the project.   The compromise,  recorded in a side  letter during negotia-
tions, was that communities would be allowed to participate in excavation
for water pipes and in the non-structural elements of the schools but that
if this interferred with the progress and timely execution of the project,
contractors would be used to execute the tasks.
2.14         Support Communications.   The Bank accepted the communications
support component, to be funded by UNICEF, with reluctance as they were not
fully convinced of the utility of the then novel idea.
2.15        Appraisal was completed in October 1973 and negotiations  took
place in June 1974.
2.l6      The identification, preparation and appraisal process was charac-
terized by vigorous debate, the productivity of which was enhanced by the
availability of previous experience and well-developed plans and proposals
on which it could be based. The resulting project, although very ambitious
and comprehensive was well thought out.  Furthermore, several professionals
who had played a primary role in its definition assumed responsibility for
implementation by joining the HIPU or by remaining on the staff of AFSC,
UNICEF, NHA and the consulting firm retained by the GRZ.



- 10-
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Effectiveness and Start-Up
3.01      The Housing Project Unit formally commenced operations in
July 1974.  By September 1, with the appointment of the Project Director,
all senior posts,  namely the Deputy Direclor and all Heads of Divisions
were filled.  The Project was launched officially by the Minister of Local
Government and Housing on October 29, 1974 and field operations in the
first upgrading area began immediately afterwards.
3.02        The Loan, however, did not  become  effective until April 1975
because of delays which were largely due to the appointment of a new
Minister of Finance who questioned some of the standards being used and
found it necessary to review the project as a whole, but also because of
delays  in  obtaining  and  forwarding  the  legal  opinions  concerning  the
Housing (Statutory and Improvement Areas) Act and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and in publishing the Regulations.  The Loan and Project Agree-
ments were signed on December 5, 1974 and the subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the LUDC and GRZ on December 31, 1974.  The Housing Act was intro-
duced into the National Assembly on July 31, 1974 and the legal opinion
forwarded to the Bank on January 20, 1975.   The Housing Regulations were
published on April 4, 1975.
3.03         The Housing Project Unit staff was built up duLring the first
quarter of 1975.   Response to advertisements was generally very good for
posts in the Social Services and Administrative categories and less good in
Finance and Procurement.   The post which generated most interest was that
of Trainee Community Development Officer, about 800 applications being
received of which 25 were selected to go on the training program which pro-
cedures and requirements also contributed to these delays started in April
1975, which was developed by UNICEF and AFSC staff.  Separate office accom-
modation was constructed for the Housing Project Unit by the City Council
and occupation of the new building by HPU staff was effected by the end of
March 1975.  Until then, the dispersal of staff placed a severe constraint
on the Unit's operations.
3.04       The Consultants already appointed by the GRZ for development of
the Master Plan and design of its components continued with the production
of detailed designs, tender documents and supervision of contracts while
the HPU undertook all the design work in the upgrading areas themselves,
delays were therefore not experienced with the selection of consultants.
However, with the calling of tenders for .he first two contracts, it was
found that the period from receipt of tenders to the commencement of works
was under-estimated and in fact took just over five mon'Lhs made up as
follows:  (i) Preparation of Evaluation Report:   4 weeks;   (ii) Consulta-
tion with IBRD:  2 weeks;  (iii) Negotiations:   4 weeks; (iv) Approval of
tender: 1 week; (v) Preparation, and signature of contract: 6 weeks; (vi)
Mobilization period: 4 weeks.
3.05       The main reason for these delays was the fact that the contrac-
tors concerned came from outside Zambia and negotiations with the Central
Banks of Kenya and Tanzania respectively concerning exchange control and



- 11 -
performance bond problems took some time to resolve.   Importation of plant
and equipment plus general mobilization on site also took longer than ex-
pected but most delays were experienced later as described in Section B.
The  project  unit's  staff  and  consultants'  unfamiliarity  with  Bank
procedures and requirements also contributed to these delays.
B. Progress of Physical Works
3.06       The construction schedule anticipated at appraisal is compared
with the actual schedule in Chart I, and Table 1 summarizes the achieve-
ments as of June 1981.   The physical components of the  project can be
divided into four main categories:   on-site preparation, off-site infra-
structure, house construction and community facilities.  Progress with each
category is outlined below:
3.07        On-site preparation.  Following delays in start-up, implementa-
tion took place at a relatively slow pace, with most contracts taking three
times the appraisal estimate for completion.   These delays were primarily
due to adverse soil conditions, unusually heavy rains, problems of land
acquisition, nationwide shortages of materials and spares for plant and
equipment, difficulty in finding competent contractors and technical per-
sonnel in Zambia, and cumbersome procedures for arranging for the importa-
tion of plant and obtaining work permits for the contractors' staff.
3.08       Adverse soil conditions necessitated the substitution of site 7
for site 8 and the eventual abandonment of some 400 plots on site 6.  The
change in the number of plots developed was complemented by increases in
other sites, with the net change being in favor of the lower income groups
(Table 1).  The substitution was effected expeditiously as design work for
site 7 was already complete, bills of quantities had already been prepared
and decisions were made quickly by the Bank and the Borrower.   Lusaka's
high water table and clay soils make precise analysis of site conditions
very difficult, hence although more detailed analyses might have been done
prior to appraisal there is some debate as to whether or not it might have
been cost-effective.
3.09         Problems of land acquisition also delayed the progress  of a
number of contracts,  especially on sites 5 and 7.  On site 5, 330 plots
were encroached on by squatters who were eventually allowed to remain and
the area occupied was treated under the upgrading part of the project since
they were adjacent to a part of the George Complex.   Work on Site 7 was
delayed for over four months as a group of cultivators who had illegally
occupied the land obstructed the work of the contractor.  The layout of the
area had to be revised to accommodate them and the HPU had to station a
special team of community development workers on the site to prevent resi-
dents from harassing the contractor.   Tand acquisition problems in George
also necessitated several changes in the layout.
3.10         Nationwide shortages  of spare  parts  equipment  and  supplies
adversely affected practically all of the contracts. Even locally-produced
items, such as crushed stones, were in short supply as the national vehicle
fleet to distribute them was adversely affected by the shortage of spare
parts and there were frequent breakdowns of machinery.



- 12 -
3.11        Progress on physical works was also virtually halted for five
months early in 1977/1973, when rainfall was 50% more than normal and 20%
more than the previously recorded maximum.   Extensive damage was done to
work already done, especially to roads in Chawama where the contractor had
to claim on his insurance before effecting repairs.
3.12         Both site and services and upgrading contracts were adversely
affected by a nationwide shortage of competent contractors and of supervi-
sory staff and technical personnel of a suitable calibre.  This situation
was made worse in two areas where contractors were each given two large
contracts to implement at the same time. The HPU had to provide assistance
to some contractors to help them to manage the contracts.
3.13        The amount of liquidated damages provided for in the contracts
generally proved inadequate to motivate the contractors to improve their
performance.
3.14       In all areas the water reticulation part of the contracts went
well and the use of self-help to dig trenches for water pipes in Chawama
complex did not delay the contractor and involved no contractual complica-
tions.
3.15        Site and Services areas were genierally completed as planned ex-
cept for the changes to sites 6 and 8 as noted above. The scope of work in
upgraded and overspill areas was expanded significantly to accommodate pop-
ulation growth which had taken place between project preparation and imple-
mentation. As work in upgraded and overspill areas progressed also, the
assumption  that inner  access  roads would  not  be used  by heavy  traffic
proved  incorrect,  especially where commercial  premises were located,  and
some additional lengths of road were built and some roads which were to be
left in gravel were given a single bitumen coat to reduce the dust.   As
tender documents had been prepared on the basis of the provisional quanti-
ties and the final layouts were prepared only after consultation with and
agreement of the communities, final contract prices significanlty exceeded
tender prices (Annex 2).
3.16        Offsite Infrastructure work.   Relatively few problems were en-
countered with the execution of these contracts.
3.17       House Construction. Despite the lack of experience among project
participants, rising costs, unstable incomes, and continual shortages of
materials, the house construction program progressed very smoothly and by
March 1981, over 4,000 of the 7,500 houses planned had been built in the
overspill areas alone.
3.18      The construction of a new house took an average of two months and
cost one-tenth of the cheapest contractor-built  public housing unit.   No
applications for sewer connections have been made by site and services
residents as house owners prefer to develop the house first as water-borne
sanitation has been given a lower priority by them.
3.19       It had been expected that extensive use would have been made of
soil and cement blocks produced by families themselves and that they would



- 13 -
use their own labor to build their houses.  Very few families chose to do
either, possibly because they were required to complete their houses within
a limited period of time and they had less time available for self-help
than anticipated. Participants chose to use concrete blocks with - cement
mortar joints instead.   Problems of affordability did not arise, however,
as they also chose the house design which allows two families to stay with
shared services, making it possible for them to sub-let and recoup the
additional expenditure through higher rents.
3.20       Community facilities:  A shortage of local counterpart funds led
to a delay in the start of work and an eventual  reconsideration of the
scope  and  number  of  community  facilities  to  be  constructed  under  the
project.   The  findings  of  the evaluation study which was proceeding  in
parallel with project implementation were taken into consideration.   The
experience  indicated  that  communities  could build their own markets and
that there was less demand for the community centers than anticipated at
appraisal.  Only six markets and seven community centers, instead of 17 of
each facility were constructed. Of the 20 primary schools planned, only 8
were retained under the project, the rest were all transferred to the
Bank-funded education project and are nearing completion.  The reason for
the transfer was a shortage of funds in the Site and Services and Upgrading
project and savings in the Education project.
C. Progress of Non-Physical Program
3.21        Land Acquisition and Transfer.   Project areas comprised  some
1,400 hectares of land of which 800 hectares had to be acquired from
private  holders.    Compensation  was  paid  by  the  Government.    Project
beneficiaries in site and services areas and upgrading areas were to be
granted 30 year leases and 25 year licenses respectively.   Before these
documents could be granted, however, the land had to be taken through a
number of steps as even when land has been acquired:   (i) title had to be
transferred  to the Council;  (ii)  an improvement  area plan prepared  and
approved by the Surveyor General, and (iii) the declaration of the area as
an "Improvement Area" gazetted.  Both the slowness of the legal process of
acquisition and the lengths to which private holders would go in order to
delay the process of state takeover were under-estimated and the Project
therefore suffered delays for both these reasons.
3.22        Plot Allocation.  The Housing Project Unit was responsible for
advertising  Site  and  Service  plots,  receiving  applications,  checking
eligibility and preparing lists of qualified applicants for approval by the
Council's Plot Allocation Committee.   Allocation of plots in the overspill
areas was also handled by the Housing Project Unit.  Plots were' offered in
these areas first to residents displaced by essential services, second to
those displaced by the dedensification exercise and last to tenants who
wanted to build and others on the basis of need.
3.23        In the site and services component, 2,690 normal plots and 975
basic plots were offered in six sites. At appraisal it was agreed that 50%
of all plots should be allocated to people with incomes of between K20 and
K70 per month.  This was open to revision subject to IBRD approval.



- 14 -
3.24        In earlier site and service schemes applications were checked
manually and only a few people at a time were selected.  In order to speed
up the allocation procedure and to ensure that the process was seen to be
impartial, a points system was developed which ranked applicants not only
according to income but also family size, security of present tenure and
present living conditions.   The Housing Project Unit advertised the plots
in blocks, starting with 2,000 plots in October 1976.   There was an over-
whelming response to the advertisement as some 20,000 forms were sent out
and 12,700 returned.   Initial problems were encountered with incorrectly
filled-in forms and verification of information and by the end of April
1977 only 60 people including three with incomes below 170 per month had
paid the deposit of K59.25 and had been allocated plots.   The plots were
readvertised and the forms and verification- procedures were simplified and
by the middle of 1978 the situation had improved and out of a total of 624
plots in Matero, 300 were allocated to people with incomes below K70 per
month.  The requirement for an initial deposit was also later dropped and
application forms were printed in at least one local language besides
English.
3.25       Due to constantly increasing costs it soon became evident that
households with incomes of K70 per month could not afford the Project and
the income ceiling was therefore raised first to K85 and then K120 per
month.   The need to abandon some 400 plots in site 6 led to a very high
development cost for the remaining plots which made them unaffordable to
the target group.  Income criteria were therefore waived and beneficiaries
for the remaining plots are being charged at market rates.  Due to the slow
plot takeup in site 7, the last site to be serviced and the one farthest
from the city center, it was suggested that the conditions should also be
waived and the plots let at market prtces on a first come first served
basis, as the project was almost fully disbursed and infrastructure was
lying unused. The Bank acceeded to both changes.
3.26       One hundred commercial plots were offered for the development of
medium sized industry, small businesses and shops in Chawama, George and
Matero.   All of the plots were allocated by June 1981 buit only 29 had
enterprises on operation and a further 12 had construction activity on
site.   Reasons given for the poor rate of development of larger plots in-
tended for medium-sized industries include:   (i) the high building stan-
dards required by the Council;   (ii) the fact that the sites are provided
with  water  and  electricity,  and  (iii)  businessmen  not  being  offered
materials loans or access to the materials stores.
3.27      Issuing of Occupancy Licenses.  The Housing Project Unit acted as
agent for the Department of Lands in the registration and issue of occu-
pancy licenses in upgraded areas and of leases in site and services areas
on the basis of the Housing (Statutory and Improvement Areas) Act of 1975.
3.28      As the process of transfer and declaration took longer than anti-
cipated registration for occupancy licenses did not start in Chawama until
the middle of 1979 and is still going on.   The registration exercise in-
volves checking the rights of all individuals to the ownership of a proper-
ty, entering the particulars on an occupanczy license form and registering
the same particulars  in the register of titles.   Upon registration,  the



- 15 -
original occupany license delivered to the claimant becomes documentary
evidence of entitlement to the possessary rights to the property.  The pro-
cess of checking claims took longer than anticipated because owners were
seldom at home.
3.29       By the time licenses and leases could be issued in Chawama, bene-
ficiaries' occupancy was already secure and to date they have shown little
interest in collecting their licenses, especially as this requires full
payment of service charge arrears.  Reluctance of financial institutions to
recognize licenses as adequate collateral for mortgages and of the Person-
nel Division of the Prime Minister's  office to recognize them as proof of
eligibility to house owner allowances has also contributed to the lack of
incentives for beneficiaries to collect their licenses.
3.30              The installation of infrastructure and allocation of land
proceeded at a much faster pace than acquisition, transfer to the council
and declaration.   When problems of cost recovery started to emerge,  the
LUDC found that it had no firm legal basis on which to evict plot holders.
Imposition of strong sanctions therefore has to be deferred in each area
until the land is fully processed.
3.31        Briefing of Communities.   The importance of ensuring community
understanding and participation in order to win cooperation and minimize
resistance was fully recognized at the design stage.   The means by which
information on the Project could be disseminated and community attitudes
fed back had, however, to be worked out by trial and error in Chawama the
first upgrading area.
3.32       To maximize involvement of the community the Housing Project Unit
established a field team in the area led by an experienced community devel-
opment officer and containing other community development officers, sur-
veyors and engineers.  The team initially worked through the existing party
leadership structure but the arrangement resulted in very little informa-
tion filtering down to the individual family with the result that the pro-
posed routes for roads met with strong opposition from affected families
and businesses.   A decision was therefore made to set up a road planning
group for the whole settlement which would act as a decision making body on
the location of roads and other facilities. The group was composed mainly
of branch and section officials and HPU staff and its work was complemented
by a more thorough briefing of individual families affected by the proposed
infrastructure. This system speeded up the planning process and was adop-
ted in other settlements.
3.33       In the site and service areas, community organizations had to be
established and this was again done through the party structure of sections
and branches.  Community leaders were encouraged to take an active part in
the process of briefing residents, plot allocation and the organization of
self-help projects.   In order to enable them to do this many  leadership
seminars were held to inform and get reactions from local leaders.  In an
effort to get the "Development" message across to as many people as possi-
ble the HPU's Communication Unit used plays and live music to describe the
aims of the Project and methods being used to obtain them.   The fact that
none of the delays experienced were due to problems with the communities
testifies to the success of this exercise.   The main problem encountered



- 16 -
was changes in leadership which meant that at elections, aspiring candi-
dates tended to try and win the favor of constituents, sometimes at the ex-
pense of the project. This also led to a lack of continuity as newly elec-
ted leaders had to be briefed again so that leadership seminars were a con-
tinuing activity.
3.34       Operation of Materials Depots/Issue of loans.  Approximately 25%
of the total cost of the Project was planned to be spent on loans for
building materials including nine materials depots and equipment. Partici-
pants were issued with loan cards and were able to obtain the value in
materials indicated on the cards from the materials depots.  All partici-
pants were eligible for a loan and a questionnaire was issued to all those
applying for a loan to assess their ability to repay.   The amount of the
loan was based on the cost of upgrading or constructing a two-room core.
3.35      Building material costs increased significantly during the imple-
mentation period (Annex I) and this meant that the original loan amounts
soon became inadequate for their purpose and they were therefore increased
accordingly.   The number of loans available was consequently decreased so
that only half the residents scheduled to be resettled in George Complex
under the optional resettlement program were offered loans and there were
no loans for house improvement or for optional resettlement in Chaisa/
Chipata Complex, the last to be upgraded. Cash sales had to be stopped and
only people with loan cards were allowed to purchase materials and the
amount of material was limited.   Initial problems were encountered because
(i) peaking of demand for materials, especially when resettlement to over-
spill areas occurred, meant that the HPU was unable to maintain adequate
supplies or provide enough transportation; (ii) the opening hours of the
stores  were  not  convenient  for  beneficiaries;  (iii)  the  demand  for
materials such as sanitary plumbing and fittings was found to be much less
than expected as participants gave priority to four walls and a roof and
tended to leave improvement to a later date, and (iv) shortages of foreign
exchange in the economy as a whole meant that local suppliers had diffi-
culty in coping with bulk orders for raw materials.
3.36        Midcourse measures introduced to improve matters included  (i)
giving priority to resettled households; (ii) making daily announcements of
materials available; (iii) staggering of opening hours, and (iv) hiring of
temporary staff and additional transportation to supplement the establish-
ment at peak periods, and (v) adjusting the type of materials purchased to
suit demand.   The material depots have now been taken over by the LUDC,
which is continuing to issue loans.
3.37        Costs.   Table 2 compares  total project costs as estimated at
appraisal with estimated final costs as of December 1980.  In terms of US
dollar equivalents final costs exceeded appraisal estimates by only 1%.
3.38          The Kwacha was  devalued  twice during  implementation,  and,
although this increased the Kwacha value of Bank funds (Chart 2), this was
offset  by  local  price  increases  (Annex 1) due  to inflation.    Bitumen
prices, for example, increased by 60% and labor by 57% during the implemen-
tation period, reflecting the oil price increases and declining copper
revenues.  The accompanying nationwide shortages, especially of spare parts



17 -
for plant and transportation equipment, also contributed to price increases
through the resulting delays in contract completions.
3.39         Costs were closely monitored  during implementation and major
overruns were accommodated by the scaling down of the community facilities
component.   Overruns on the scaled-down  project were  largely due  to in-
creases in the scope of work in upgraded areas and increased overhead costs
due to the retention of the HPU for an additional two and one-half years.
3.40      Disbursements.  As shown in Chart 2, disbursements started appro-
ximately six months later and then proceeded at a slightly lower rate than
expected at appraisal, with an increase in the lag for final disbursements.
The pattern otherwise closely reflects the implementation schedule as in-
flation increased the nominal value of the amounts disbursed.
3.41          Procurement.   As  provided  for at  appraisal,  contracts  were
grouped to maximize competition while ensuring that as much work as possi-
ble could  be carried  out by local  contractors.   Work was  divided  into
different components with provision for separate tendering for each compo-
nent. Details of contract groupings are set out in Annex 1.
3.42       Overall tendering procedures worked smoothly except for an early
problem  in obtaining  bids.   Initial  prequalification of contractors  for
civil works contracts advertised in 1974 through notification to Embassies
met with very poor response.  Following further consideration and consulta-
tion with local firms the advertisement for prequalification was published
in Kenya, Tanzania and Zambia and applications were received from contrac-
tors from the three countries.   Tenders were subsequently invited on the
basis of firms prequalified.  Very few tenders were received for each con-
tract but the rates quoted were consistent with prevailing market rates.
The first tenders were mainly from firms in Kenya and Tanzania but for sub-
sequent tenders a number of Zambian firms also tendered and were awarded
contracts.
3.43      Altogether contracts worth approximately US$7.5 million were exe-
cuted by foreign firms and contracts worth approximately US$6.8m were exe-
cuted by locally-based firms.



- 18 -
LUSAKA SQUATE.R u7GRAD:T G A.D sz,IE AND ScRV'CES PROCECT
:able 2:  AC:.uai Costil Ccmnared    :: ADDraisai !srtiates
(0OO0K and USS Equivalents)
COMPONENT7                   APPRAISAL -ST2ATE        AC=.AL           Coar  verrn
(Tncl. Concing.)              U5'   3/  (Ccst 2ad-?z n)
K     SSS Ecuiv.A      K _    quiv.-   '  - _,
SITE PREPARATION-UPGRADING AREAS
Cha¶wama                     1,020     1,587        1,052   1,347          15
George                         699     1,088        1,775   2,272         i09
Chaisa/Chipata                 812     1.263        2.352   3,010         138
Sub-totaLL  2,531     3,938       5,179   6,629           68
SITE PREPARATION-SITE AAND SERVTCES AREAS
Sites I antd 6               2,137     3,325        2,024   2,591         (22,
Sites 3, 4, and 5            1,682     2,617        1,422   1,820         (30)
Site 8/7                     1.361     2.118        1.286   1,646         (22)
Sub-total  5,180     8,060        4,732   6,057          (25)
PRIfARY INFRASTRUCTDU
Water Main and Reser7oir    1,856      2,888        2,222   2,844         ( 1)
Trunk Sewer                    912     1,419        1,484   1,899          34
Ponds                          295       459          342     438         ( 5)
Roads                          478       744          809   1,035          39
PUap                            49        76           42      54         (29)
Security Lighting              559       870          930   1.190          37
Sub-total  4,149      6,456       5,829   7,461           16
VEUIaES AND EQUIRI
Project Unit Vehicle            44        68           56      72           6
Stores Vehicles & Equipment   186        289          320     410          42
comeuny Center £quip=enr        74       115            9      11         (90)
Building Equipment               6         9           12      15          67
Garbage- Trucks                278       433          375     480          11
Sub-cotaL    588        915         772     988            8
Comnanity Centers              247       384          112     143          63
Health Clinics                 261       406          804   1,029         153
Dlemonscratiou 9ouses           16        25           21      27           8
Markets                        395       615           99     127          (79)
Builing Material Depots        137        Z13         220     282          32
Sub-total  1,056     1,643        1,256   1,608          ( 2)
3DILDING MATERIALS - TZCMNICAL ASSISTANCE
Building Materials           5,609     8,728       5,234   6,699           C23)
Fngins.ringiArch. Services    885      1,377          298     381          (72)
Future Project P2raparation     38        59           61      78          32
OAK Study                      LOO       156          126     161            3
Traiing of Workers&            212       330           35      45          (86)
Project Unit Operations      3.312     5.153        6,306   8.072          56
Sub-total 10,156    15,802       1,060  L5,436             2
Land                           120       187          105     134          (28)
School",                     2.745     4,271        2.745   3,313         (18)
TOTAL 26,525    41,273       32,678  41,328            1
I/  As of Decenber 1980.
2/  Based on the rate of KM-US$1.556 as at appraisal.
3/  3Bed on estimated average rate of KlJUS$1.28.
Z/  This com9poerc wes scaled down during implementation aa indicated in Table 1.
5/  Twelve of the ewenty schools planned were transferrd to the EducatioL Project.



- 19 -
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
A. Performance of Consultants
4.01         Consultants employed generally worked diligently and produced
satisfactory work except for the choice of light fittings and distribution
of  lights  in Chawama.   However,  the  designed  standards  and  choice  of
fittings were agreed to by the HPU as client.
B. Performance of Contractors
4.02       The quality of the work of contractors varied.   Performance of
most of the small contractors was unsatisfactory.   The medium-sized firms
which applied for prequalification and were later awarded contracts per-
formed reasonably well although their financial resources, plant and tech-
nical manpower was limited.   However,  HPU selected the best contractors
available and facilitated the successful completion of the work by tactful
handling, prompt payment for work done and the provision of assistance to
some of their contractors in organizing the management of complicated up-
grading contracts.  Very good work was carried out on time on the schools
and urban health centers built under the project. Zambian contractors paid
in local currency found it particularly difficult to overcome problems of
spare for plant and foreign exchange allowances for this purpose might use-
fully be extended to them in future large capital works projects.
C. Performance of Suppliers
4.03      Throughout most of the implementation period Dar es Salaam repre-
sented Zambia's only outlet to overseas ports and this required transship-
ment to Lusaka by road or rail.  This situation was aggravated by foreign
exchange shortages due to the fall in the price of copper and oil price in-
creases.  Most of the materials required for low cost houses were manufac-
tured in Zambia and were procurred through local suppliers but their supply
was generally erratic.  Assistance to the sector of the building industry
dealing with the production of building materials such as aggregate and
concrete blocks is urgently needed.
D. Performance of Standards Used.
4.04       Major reductions in the standards established at appraisal have
been with regard to security lighting and garbage collection.  In upgraded
areas residents were expected to carry their refuse to collection points
situated at a maximum distance of 100 meters from their houses, but they
have not done so.  LUDC dustmen have also refused to fetch dustbins  from
the houses.  The council has subsequently prepared a scheme, based on the
use  of handcarts,  tractor-trailer  combinations  and  janitors  and  have
started operations in one area.  The lighting system provided was designed
to a lower standard than that agreed to at appraisal (Annex 3) and the fit-
ting used were of a very poor design.  The residents do not consider that
the system has improved security and HPU and LUDC have arranged for it to
be improved.



- 20 -
4.05          Standards  were increased  for minor access roads  because  of
heavier traffic than anticipated at appraisal, expecially on roads with
commercial premises.   Participants' choice of concrete rather than soil-
cement or sun-dried clay blocks for house construction has also resulted in
higher standards than anticipated at appraisal.
4.06       Otherwise, standards established at appraisal have been utilized
and are performing satisfactorily except for minor changes due to:  lack of
experience of HPU staff; shortage of materials and plant resulting in the
need to utilize alternative less appropriate materials and construction
methods; lack of skilled staff with contractors; and, delays in the finali-
zation of maintenance arrangement by LUDC.
E. Reporting
4.07       A management information system which was developed during proj-
ect preparation  formed  the basis  for reporting  to the Bank.   The Bank
received well-prepared comprehensive quarterly reports on a regular basis.
F. Compliance with Covenants
4.08        The covenants were in close accordance with GRZ intentions and
were aimed at timely institution of certain measures which were considered
to be critical for achievement of project goals.   Genuine efforts made to
comply with covenants did not always meet with immediate success and dead-
lines were adjusted with Bank concurrence.
4.09        Despite changing from the use of government auditors to private
firms in its attempt to comply with the audit covenant, LUDC was behind in
the audit of its accounts throughout the implementation period.  However,
project accounts were always up-to-date and this allowed the Bank to assure
itself that loan funds were properly utilized.   At the end of June 1981
audited reports for LUDC were prepared up to 1976 and final accounts up to
1977.   1977 to 1979 accounts are expected to be ready for auditing by the
end of 1981 and those for 1980 by mid-1982.   Final HPU accounts should be
ready for auditing by the end of September 1981. Compliance with covenants
relating to the processing of land and cost recovery is still outstanding.
These were dependent on the development of new systems and procedures and
considerable progress is now being made in this respect.



- 21 -
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
A. Pricing
5.01       Project beneficiaries were expected to pay for: (i) plot develop
ment which was based on a simple cost/house ratio in upgraded areas and on
an assignable area7/ in site and service areas.  Repayment terms were 7.5%
over 30 years where the repayment period was limited to the expected tenure
period and the cost was related to the mortgage rate being charged by the
Zambia National Provident Fund (ZNPF); (ii) water and sewer through recur-
rent standing charges based on LUDC's tariffs; (iii) dustbin purchases and
management after construction on the basis of a flat fee; and (iv) debt
service on  building material loans including managements costs.  Items suc
as schools and clinics, which were to benefit the city as a whole were to b
paid for through property and local income taxes.
5.02        Total monthly charges were estimated at appraisal to range from
K2.75 (US$4.28) to K19.90 (US$30.96) and to be within the means of about 92
of all households in upgraded and overspill areas and between 45% and 55% o
all  low-income households.   At  completion plot  charges  were within  the
appraisal estimate for most sites but the levy of full charges had been de-
layed by some 3 years for some sites.
B. Cost Recovery
5.03           Repayment to date for both plot service charges and building
material loans has not been satisfactory. At appraisal it was expected that
by completion about 25% of total capital costs would have been recovered bu
only 5% have been actually recovered to date. Possible reasons for the poo
performance to date are:
(a)   An   inadequate   institutional   framework   and   mechanisms.
(i) Collections are inefficient as existing manual syste-ms have
proven to be indequate for monitoring performance and following-
up on arrears in a timely manner.   (ii) The absence of a debt
collection unit in the HPU, when it was responsible for collec-
tions, also aggravated the problems due to the inadequacy of the
systems and staff shortages in the established departments.
(iii) At appraisal it was also expected that monthly charges
could be deducted at the source of employment forthe wage em-
ployed but employers have been unwilling to institute the system
and employees have been unwilling to sign the necessary consent
forms.  These difficulties are further compounded by frequent
job changes among some categories of workers and statutory limi-
tations on deductions.  (iv) The requirement for beneficiaries
to go to city hall to make their payments and queuing due to an
inadequate number of cashiers whencharges were first being col-
lected also discouraged payment.
7/ Total area minus roads and open space.



- 22 -
(b)    Attitudes  and  previous  practices.   Zambians  have  not  been
accustomed  to  paying  directly  for  most  social  services  and
amenities, and these were not previously available on scales
similar to those provided by the project.   Studies conducted as
part of the evaluation exercise have also confirmed that socio-
cultural practices rather than problems of affordability underly
the poor performance to date.   The system of indirect payments
forms part of an entrenched system of subsidies which is diffi-
cult to eliminate.
(c)     Lack of political will and the absence of effective systems of
sanctions.   Water  lock-offs have been used,  but  with  limited
success to date, as beneficiaries have generally found ways of
reestablishing the supply themselves.  There has been some reluc
tance to use stronger measures, such as evictions, because the
council is operating under a new system of laws and is unsure of
its real powers, especially as declaration of project areas as
statutory or improvement areas has generally been delayed. Some
members of the political directorate also seem to have felt that
the level of services provided was inadequate and therefore dis-
couraged payment pending the provision of better services.
5.04        There now seems to be an increasing awareness, at the political
directorate and chief officer levels of the LUDC, of the need for the
Council's revenue situation to improve in order for it to improve its
services. Especially during the course of the last twelve months, positive
measures have been initiated to reverse the adverse trend, most importantly
(i) the entire recording, collection and follow-up system is being compu-
terized; (ii) additional cashiers have been stationed in project areas, and
(iii) eviction procedures have been initiated for the worst defaulters.
These measures are expected to significantly improve cost recovery in the
near future.
5.05         Efforts are also being made to secure owner-occupancy housing
allowances for project beneficiaries and to require recipients to consent t
deduction of loan repayment and service charges at source as a condition of
receipt of the allowance.   Largely because of the project, the magnitude,
negative effects and inquitable nature of the subsidies have become apparen
and their phasing out is one of the principal goals of the housing section
of the TNDP.  The proposal to grant owner-occupancy allowances to project
beneficiaries forms a part of a wider proposal to monetize all public secto
housing allowances as a first step towards phasing out of subsidies.
C. Financial Position of LUDC
5.06        Since 1966 GRZ has adopted a policy of making municipalities les
financially dependent on the Central Government and has been systematically
cutting back its grants and LUDC therefore has had to assume greater respon
sibility for raising its own revenues.   Provision was accordingly made in
the project for revaluation of water tariffs, revision of property taxes,
and recovery of project costs from beneficiaries, and of GRZ funds from LUD
on  terms  agreed  at  negotiations.    The  project  itself  was  expected  to
generate an overall net cash surplus from 1976 on the LUDC's housing,
building materials, water, sewerage and general rate activities.



- 23 -
5.07        However, contrary to appraisal estimates, LUDC has recorded con-
sistent deficits on its Housing account in each of the year 1975 to 1980 an
on its Liquor Undertaking account for most of those years and has therefore
been  plagued  with  a  steadily  rising  revenue  arrears  situation.   Total
arrears have risen sharply from just over one half of a million kwacha in
1975 to Kll million at the end of 1980.  By far the bulk of these arrears i
revenue collections, which have placed the Council in serious cash flow
situations, has been on the water and sewerage account (43% in 1980).  The
reasons that have been advanced  for this situation are substantially the
same as those affecting cost recovery under the project.
5.08        Although the project has also not impacted as positively on LUDC
finances as anticipated at appraisal the burden was significantly less in
1981 than in 1978 and it could still effectively yield a positive financial
return and cash flow if consistent and systematic adjustments on service
charges and interest fees on building loans are  effected.  Because it has
generally managed to contain average expenditure growth over the past five
years relative to revenue growth (17.8% as opposed to 18.3% per annum res-
pectively), the Council has been able to sustain a surplus on its General
Rate Fund.  However, the overall growing revenue arrears situation of the
council as a whole would also have to be arrested if the council is to
remain financially viable and capable of servicing its rapidly growing debt
obligations, particularly with the Ministry of Finance to which it has
defaulted substantially in recent years.



- 24 -
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE & DEVELOPMENT
6.01           One  of  the  principal  objectives  of  the  project  was  the
strengthening of LUDC's planning and execution capability for similar proj-
ects in the future while demonstrating the feasibility of designing such
programs  for  providing  shelter  and  related  services  for  the  poor.
Principal responsibility for project execution was vested in the LUDC
through the HPU created specifically for that purpose.   A special Inter-
Agency coordinating committee, established to coordinate the inputs of
other Government agencies and donors was chaired by the PLGAD the parent-
ministry responsible for Local Authorities.
A. Central Government Agencies
6.02       At appraisal the then Ministry of Local Government and Housing
(MLGH) was the Central Government Ministry with ultimate overall responsi-
bility for the project.  In January 1979, the Provincial and Local Govern-
ment Administrative Division (PLGAD) was created within the office of the
Prime Minister in lieu of the MLGH, and responsibility for housing and
Municipal affairs except civil servant housing, was retained under this new
framework.
6.03      PLGAD's input into project implementation was particularly signi-
ficant, as it performed both executive as well as operational review
functions.  Timely advise and guidance were provided with respect to deci-
sions involving the project, including project modifications and requests
for increased government contributions resulting from cost overruns.   The
Division also facilitated feed-back from the evaluation exercise and incor-
porated the results into the project itself as well as the national policy
formulation process.  The stability of senior personnel within the Division
with direct responsibility for the administration of the project also pro-
vided an element of continuity as the project evolved.
6.04      If there was any area in which the PLGAD might have been somewhat
weak, it was perhaps in not ensuring that LUDC was more fully involved in
project imlementation and in ensuring that greater financial control was
sustained by the council over revenue collection aspects of the project.
6.05      The performance of the Ministry of Lands and Agriculture was not
very satisfactory.  Despite the passage of legislation eliminating private
land ownership, land for the project was acquired on a peacemeal basis.
The exemption of some parcels of land within the larger areas to be trans-
ferred to council, while reducing compensation payments and avoiding poli-
tically-difficult situations, increased the need for registered surveyors.
This meant that the problems of the shortage of registered surveyors, which
other legislation was intended to ameliorate, remained a major stumbling
block.   At one stage  when satisfactory  progress was being made by the
Surveyor General's Department, private surveyors were hired to conduct the
perimeter surveys necessary for issue of title but the work was handed back
to the HPU uncompleted. Satisfactory progress is now being made by a team
of trained but unlicensed surveyors from HPU/LUDC, working under a licensed
surveyor in the Surveyor General's Department with vehicles and equipment
provided by LUDC and the NHA.   Poor coordination  between  the Surveyor



- 25 -
General's and the Commission of Land's Departments of the Ministry have
also contributed significantly to project delays.  Significant improvements
in the operations of this Ministry are necessary prerequisites for the
successful implementation of the national housing and other programs.
B. Lusaka Urban District Council
6.06       The LUDC's generally weak administrative and financial systems
and shortage of qualified personnel which were of major concern at the time
of appraisal did not respond significantly to the measures included in the
project to improve their performance.   The majority of its senior posts,
especially in its engineering and finance departments were vacant through-
out the project implementation period and the council has experienced great
difficulty in assuming responsibility for the project, especially for main-
tenance and collection of service charge and loan repayments as the HPU was
phased out.
6.07        Both the operations and Management (O&M) and Water Resources
Management and Tariffs studies which were intended to help LUDC improve its
operations were completed as agreed at appraisal.  As a result of the Water
Studies, which were financed by the German Agency for Technical Cooperation
(GTZ), a new water and sewerage department has been established with the
Council to undertake engineering and maintenance as well as collections.
The full recommended rate increases have not been applied and it is
unlikely that rates will be increased further as Lusaka already has one of
the highest rates in the country.
6.08      The O&M Study was completed in November 1976.  During the course
of the study a series of 22 working papers were prepared and discussed in
detail  with  a  steering  committee  of  chief  officers.    The  fact  that
virtually no action has been taken may be largely explained by the central
finding of the study itself:  that the council is severely handicaped by a
lack of autonomy over its own finances or manpower.   An administrative
Committee has recently been appointed by the Cabinet to review the size and
organizational structure and gradings of posts in the civil service.   As
LUDC's District Executive Secretary is a member of this committee, it is
assumed that the findings of the O&M study will be taken into consideration
during its deliberations.
6.09      The legal status and administrative framework of the Council was
changed by the Local Administration Act of 1980, published in December of
that  year  and  GRZ's  new  policy  of  decentralization.    These  changes,
however, have not yet been fully effected and it is still too soon to
predict their ultimate effect on LUDC opeations.
C. The Housing Project Unit
6.10       The HPU had its own finance and procurement, community develop-
ment  and  engineering  departments  was  thus  largely self-contained.   The
Project Director, who was given Chief Officer status in the Council,
repurted to one Council Committee, the Inter-Ministerial Advisory Committee
and the World Bank.  The Project Director, unlike other Chief officers, was
empowered to hire staff without going through the Local Government service



- 26 -
commission was  able  to attract  qualified  staff  through  the payment  of
higher salaries and granting of special perquisites.   The Housing Project
Unit was innovative and its development of 11,415 serviced plots in the
five-year implementation period compared very favorably with the 5,856
plots developed by the Council during the previous 10 years.
6.11        Besides its physical achievements the HPU developed innovative
and  participatory  approaches  to  the  solution  of  the  shelter  problem,
notably the field team approach and methods of working with communities
which prior to the project had exhibited hostility to and suspicion of the
Council.  The HPU also streamlined the process for allocation of plots and
operation of Building Material stores.   The support communications  unit,
also proved to be an invaluable contributor to the project's success and
its continuation as a part of the Department of Housing and Social Services
is seen by the Director of that department as one of its most important
assets.
6.12       The self-contained nature of the LIPU and the deficiences of the
LUDC led to their growing apart rather than becomIng more closely integra-
ted during  implementation.   The HPU's  communications  section,  with  the
assistance of UNICEF sponsored a series of seminars to more fully involve
the Council but these were limited in their effectiveness as the senior
officers did not generally attend.  The Council when called upon to assist
with engineering work was also not always able to do so because of chronic
staff shortages.  Execution of the project has therefore had only a limited
effect on the development of the council's capabilities.
6.13      A special unit, the Peri-Urban Areas Unit has been created in the
Department of Housing and Social Serviges of LUDC to coordinate ongoing
activities in project areas and to initiate the development of new areas.
It has continued to utilize the field team approach for coordinating the
activities of and supervising its field staff in these areas and it has
taken over the operation of the building material stores and allocation of
plots.   These  operations,  however,  are quite  weak  and  exist  within  a
largely unchanged framework, and, unless the unit is given some support,
they might not survive.
D. Role of Expatriates
6.14       Most of the key posts in the project unit itself as well as the
NHA,  PLGAD  and  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture  and Lands  were  filled  by
expatriates, whose technical and administrative skills contributed signifi-
cantly  towards  the project's  preparation  and  successful  implementation.
The participatory style  of management  of the Project Unit  is generally
acknowledged to have facilitated the transfer of skills to the Zambians who
took  over  some  of  and  performed  very  well  in  the  posts  vacated  by
expatriates  when  their  contracts  expired.    It  is  widely  felt  that
expatriates have a continuing role to play in the sector in Zambia and that
long term benefits can be derived through appropriate management systems
and their careful placement.



- 27 -
E. Overall Project Coordination
6.15       Coordination of the project left much to be desired.  The Inter-
Agency Coordinating Committee was active and effective at the very incep-
tion of the project, but became almost dormant for about three years and
then was revitalized during the final year of the project when it met on
a monthly basis.  It has been most useful in resolving land-related issues
and in facilitating the phasing out of the project unit.  An inter-depart-
mental consultative committee set up within the LUDC to coordinate the
HPU's activities with those of other council departments met with little
success,  largely  because  of  infrequent  attendance  by  senior  council
officers.
6.16           On  balance,  notwithstanding  the  problems  of  coordination
experienced, if the question of institutional development is viewed in the
narrow context of the impact on the physical or structural elements of
organizations, then one would have to be conservative on the effectiveness
of the LSUSS project.  Viewed, however, in its broader context in terms of
the upgrading of the capacity of Zambians, both in and outside of Lusaka,
to identify, prepare, implement and deliver low-cost shelter, the project
must be considered  to have had a significant impact.   A core of Zambians
within the LUDC is now in a position to replicate the low-cost approaches
to shelter employed under this project.  A number of personnel from munici-
palities outside of Lusaka have benefited from training and practical expo-
sure  to aspects of the management  and operations  of  the project.   The
National Housing Authority, one of the principal policy and implementing
agencies in the area of shelter, has demonstrated its ability to provide
useful support services in its fields, and now has tangible evidence of the
general viability of a low-cost appro'ach to shelter, about which there
appeared to be some reservations in the past.   At the Central Government
level, a stronger relationship has now been forged between the policy
makers and executing agencies in the field of shelter.   While it is still
too early to determine the full financial viability of this approach, the
project through the studies and implementation experience has clearly
thrown new light on the fundamental weaknesses in the systems within the
municipal organizations involved in its execution.   These areas could now
be more appropriately addressed and the basis laid for a more effective
delivery of low-cost shelter in the future.



- 28 -
VII. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
A. Rate of Return
7.01          At appraisal quantitative economic benefits were measured in
terms of imputed rental values for the dwelling units to be constructed or
improved under the project and the value of utilities to households.   For
purposes of economic analysis, costs included the portion of on-site costs
attributable solely to the project, on-site servicing costs, the cost of
materials and labor for the dwellings, maintenance costs and project unit
operating costs.  The same assumptions were used for the reanalysis except
that, since service and utility charges were not being collected their valu
was not included as there was as yet no clear indication of the way in whic
their payment would interact with rental charges.   Field checks on rental
values were done for purposes of the reevalution.
7.02        Whereas sites showed a rate of return varying from 12% to 28% at
appraisal, the reestimates for sites on which reasonable building activity
has taken place ranged from 10% to 31% with a weighted average of 18%
(Annex  4).   The  lower  rates  of  return can be attributed  to the  local
currency cost overruns on the project as a whole, delay in the benefits
caused by time overruns, and the inadequacy of the building material loans
for financing full development. Of the recalculated rates shown in Annex 4
that pertaining to the overspill areas is the most robust because these
areas were developed quickly and their houses and house rents are well
established.   In most of the site and services areas house extension and
development is still in proces.  The rates for upgrading areas on the other
hand are somewhat of a surprise and probably reflect problems of benefits
quantification.  For example, we know that densities are up in most of the
serviced areas, although rooms and room rents have not noticeably increased
to the same extent.
7.03           Site 7 has not  been included  in the recalculation  of the
Internal Rate of Return as it is still too early to do so.   The site was
substituted for Site 8 during implementation when the latter was found to b
unsuitable for development and therefore was not included in the original
calculations either.  Due to lifting of the income ceiling criterion (see
para. 3.25) for allocation higher income residents, who will have easier
access to mortgage funds, are expected to take up the plots and to build
rapidly.   The supplement of private funds to the public investment already
made is expected to eventually still lead a positive rate of return.
B. Poverty Impact
7.04        Evaluation studies 8/ conducted in a typical upgrading, normal
site and services and a more expensive site and services area indicated tha
70%, 55% and 30% of the families respectively came from the bottom 30% of
Lusaka's  income  distribution  curve.    These  figures  indicate  that  the
8/ Sanyal B. et. al. "Final Report on the Evaluation of the First Lusaka
Upgrading and Site and Services Project." The World Bank 1981.



- 29 -
upgrading and normal site and services projects are accessible to the lowes
group and that the mix of levels of development offered by the project
offers attractive options to all of the lowest 50-60% of the city's house-
holds.    The  studies  also  indicated  that  beneficiaries  are  generally
satisfied with the level of services provided.
7.05           The project  also generated   demand  for approximately 8,000
person-months of labor and resulted in Kl.3m (US$lm) of incremental income
to labor through the construction of dwellings.



- 30 -
VIII. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK AND OTHER DONORS
A. Performance of the Bank
8.01         During the project preparation phase, the Bank played a major
role in introducing the concept of affordability as an alternative to the
specification of standards as the basis of Zambia's housing program.   It
also assisted in reducing the scope of the project to more manageable pro-
portions. The reporting system developed by the Bank during project prepa-
ration formed the basis of the unit's own management information system
which contributed significantly to the project's good management.   During
implementation the Bank continued to give technical advise and helped with
the development and periodic revisions of- project-related work programs
which helped to maintain the momentum of the project through Zambia's perio
of economic difficulties.
8.02        In response to the request of PLGAD officials the Bank supported
in-depth analyses of the status and trends in Municipal finances9/ and the
incidence of housing subsidies.10/ The findings of these studies have been
extensively used by the Division in the further development of the national
housing policy and the formulation of proposals, including a possible secon
project.
8.03         Throughout implementation very good working re:Lationships were
maintained with the PLGAD, the Council and the HPU.   The Project however
became more closely associated with the Bank than with the Council as the
Bank was more easily able to get action taken on matters in need of atten-
tion. While this greatly facilitated the implementation of the project, it
postponed the necessity to address the problems of coordination within the
system and for the Council to assume responsibility for the project.
B.  Performance of UNICEF and AFSC
8.04       UNICEF and AFSC assisted in the Community Development and Support
Communications aspects of the project through the technical assistance and
training inputs and the provision of equipment and vehicles. These agencie
brought an intimate knowledge of local conditions, gained through previous
experience in the sector in Zambia, to bear on the project. Their continued
involvement from identification through implementation also contributed sig
nificantly towards the project's success.
8.05         While the Bank concentrated on implementation of the project,
UNICEF and AFSC were more concerned about the achievement of long-term
institutional and community development goals and the acceptance of the
fundamental concepts by participants and the community at large.   These
complementary activities are widely acknowledged to have contributed to the
success of the project and the establishment of the basis for ongoing
9| Lynch, E.J.F. "Zambian Local Government Finance" World Bank 1980.
0/ Dinh Hinh, and Sanyal, B. "Housing Subsidies in the Public Sector in
Zambia". World Bank 1980.



- 31 -
progressive development. However, the Bank's relatively short project cycl
was not entirely compatible with the longer horizon on which the other
donors' objectives are operationalized and some of their representatives
feel that their goals may have been compromised in the partnership with the
Bank.



- 32 -
IX. LESSONS LEARNED
9.01       The project, which was one of the most successful first genera-
tion urban projects that the Bank has financed has provided a number of
useful general lessons which are applicable to similar projects and are
worth highlighting here:
Scale.   The project was massive by any measure, especially when
the many steps involved in the processes that had to be carried out to
implement and accommodate it are taken into consideration.  Its implementa-
tion strained the capabilities of the construction sector and administra-
tive establishment.   The number of individual accounts kept by the LUDC,
for example, almost doubled and the steps involved in the collections
operation have proven to be particularly complex and time consuming,
especially as many of the new debtors are self-employed or in the informal
sector.   The experience  suggests  that future interventions  in the urban
sector might more usefully take the form of a series of small and relative-
ly simple projects, each building on the achievements of the earlier ones.
This is already being done in more recent urban operations.
Institutional Capacity.   Not only the magnitude of the task but
also  the  systems  utilized  proved  to  be  of  critical  importance.    LUDC
accounts for example, were handled manually and the project highlighted the
inability of the system to successfully adapt through expansion only and
the accounts are now being mechanized.   The project experience has high-
lighted the need to carefully examine and monitor this dimension of the
institutional system, as similar problems are likely to exist in other
rapidly growing urban areas.
Participatory Style.   This was one of the Bank's first attempts
to directly address poverty issues and the Bank approached its necessary
involvement in the social sectors with caution.   The system of participa-
tion permeated all aspects of the project ranging from HPU's management
style, notably the field team approach, to the involvement of the communi-
ties in decision-making through the Road Planning Groups, as well as the
involvement of the Political Directorate.  The approach is widely acknow-
ledged as having contributed to the project's success and the continuation
of the groups and systems augurs well for further development through the
progressive upgrading model.  The project demonstrated the positive contri-
bution of intervention in the software sectors and the system of trial and
error involved in their development.
Land Acquisition.   Despite optimism at appraisal that the tradi-
tional problems of land acquisition would be negated by government-owner-
ship of all land, the process still proved to be a difficult and time con-
suming process which threatened the project's success. In subsequent proj-
ects a more realistic approach has taken, and, in some cases, land acquisi-
tion has been made a condition of board presentation.
Cost Recovery.   The unsatisfactory experience demonstrates  the
need for a more realistic assessment of attitudes as well as procedures and
systems  for effecting cost recovery.   These difficulties were underesti-
mated at appraisal.



- 33 -
9.02         Many of these lessons have already been applied in subsequent
urban operations in Zambia and elsewhere as the experience was subject to
constant scrutiny through dissemination of the findings of the evaluation
and other studies, a constant stream of visitors to the HPU and regular
Bank supervision missions.



ZAMBIA
LUSAKA SQUATTER UPCRADING AND SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
Grouping and Contract Prices of Civil Works Contracts
Variat.iolis&    Price Incre:ases                  Final
Contract   DescrI1p)Lion         ntrae    Additi onal                          C1ainm        Con tliact          lltatarks
price       Worlks       Labour  Miterials                   Price
HPU  1     SiIes I aund 6     2.160,000   &co iieouirkit    61,800   111,000      14,843   1,941,640  nlits    bytract was
Of Site 6
Minor chmitges on
MI4U  2    Sites 3,4 & 5      1,225,105S       -          24,500    84,788        32.37e~ 1,324O0O0   site covemrd by
conrttg n37i2,es
RPU 3   Water Mains &      1,676,106      384,673      29,000    95,000        37,000   2,221,779
I-IPU ~~1Itese rvoi r
(100_., 000
IIPU 4     'I'xJUik Sewer     1,013,157      110,691     442-;O00    63,240     ( 12 182x  1,341,270                                    1
HVIJ 4 A         E'-unk £xtension  229,800     -          20,000    10,000          _         240,000
I IPU 9    COavaina             898,247       66,543      13,150    59,240          _       1,037,180
H?(1 10    Site 7             1,035,274       15,943      55,000   175,783        96 00    1,4500,000   (including off silto   ad
72,OOOX1,0,0          (icungofst   ld
_   _     __                    _ __                   _,               _           __
HP U 19    Ge,Orgm              978,890         -         75,000   200,000          -       1,754,547
_P  2_       Mas,Oiat,4,
II) 26     (1,d~ai t, Cli pa ta,  D,298,464  965,921     112,00)0   275,000         ,1      2900,05
u.~~ z ~                  I _______ __________  ~~200,O000   ,90,0
x Claim ro- [eva1uadnL



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
ZAMBIA
LUSAKA SQUATTER UPGRADING AND SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
Details of Cost Increase Percentages
For Major Civil Works Contracts
Increase due   Increase due   Increase due
Descr-   Net-  ntract       to              to              to
iption..    .  mn          Labon           Mater2als-  rva1uaziion
EIT  1   1,724,097         3.58             8.2
HPU  2   1,182,339         2.07             7.2            2.74
HPU  3   2,060,779         1.41             4.6             1.80
1PU  4   1,223,848         3.43             5.16            1.00
HPU 4A     210,000         9.5              4.76             _
HPTj 9     964,790        13.63             6.14             _
EPU 10   1,147,217         4.79            15.32            6.28
HPU 19   1.479.547         5.07            13.52             _
HPU 26   2.464,385         4 .             11.15            1.97
Escalation:
I ndex    1975   -  100
1979   -  178
1981   -  230



- 36 -                       ANNEX 1
Page 3
ZAMBIA
LUSAKA SQUATTER UPGRADING AND SITE & SERVICES PROJECT
DETAILS OF INCREASE IN COST OF
BASIC MATERIALS AND LABOUR
DURING PROJECT EXECUTION
Material        Ju-ne, 75   Dec. 78  May, 81
K         K         K
Cenent 50 kg
bag               1.25       3. 00    4.65
Build;ing.
Sand (ms)         5.00      10.00    15.00
Door Frares      11.50      18.50    23.00
each
Purlins           1.50       4.50     7.00
iFuah            10.00      25.00   .35.50
Bitumen           0.16                0.23
oln(Colas    0.17                 0. 29
Petrol (SuDer    0.30                 0.83
(esese    0.13                 0.39
Basic Hourly Wage for Unskilled Labour:
Up to November, 1976 - K 0.19
November, 1976 - K 0.24
September, 1979 - K 0.27
April, 1980 - K 0.33



ZANBIA
LUSAKA SQUATTER UPGRADING AND SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
On-Site Servicing  Standards  ds  Built/Proposed
SI1S AND SllVIC1S
UPGADMING $QUA=   AMNUS                               O\TBSVII1L
D!>CH I -                                                                                                      B .  __ASIC SITES                         OlAMA,1, SHT'IS
PTICt'l
AS  IUUlT             AS PLANM)             AS BUII,T          AS P LANNU               LS BUILX           AS PILA-U4I            AS 1'UILT         AS IH A!Nill)
Wfater      SLani(l Piple O 1   Stwd Pipz e O 1   Staled P'ipe fi 1   Stntid Pipre 0 1                               St;rucld  it 1>1)-  1it  1 ividua\lt       111(livid\u;a
pci- 25 DXw l  In,Ii pe' r :  L\vvlllWl     : pur 25 lVollings pea  25 [XvellintN g-r 25 1Vtl1iNL  Ce1t1'ollri                                      C>,itr ct tionl.;
1                    I                                                               I                     NO,idvidual          IltIdi vi d1:,1
S&vera.it                   1 Latrines provided  by  Dcvelopers  outside  Project                                  ______----            Water louie          Water Roine
W(oillectiolns       (Cr)i(-ct. (lns
(3c!i-1. Its!ni sod   Gravtcl-cd 4ini     G:-bi,Lmutniuised    ;uravoled ltn                             Graveled 4m          Grave lc  'in        (hav -1(-d1 1 n
,- ill: alccss         iltleial slktAtIl iiLti l aeer(~:;!     i ittoit1al road                          internal ivad         ilnternail)l road    Interiuli  road
xl,.   mid(l L. iltu;    r((L,, nio di rc-t  \iaacL and lIis  systofi, no dLrect                        sy:,tLll, (direct   sy!,i(n. Niicc    Sy:.Atil. D)itlvt,
ro' it  l1. 3nhi It-    aeck-;s to all    luL.Oi,. :l          di rvL access to                          accX'ss to all       Vehicular            accc:.s I)o all
t:1'i WA-cl(Sil lng le. ))]Cis. 01ttow.-   lilkiciVi nod    a]lIIt pts,                               plots, bituim-    aceen:.s ro all        pl]ot . IMti tlY'-
t'cnwst     at:  )  |4tt       1 iii!ie d fin bus     (I igloe  ;al) on hhil.uilsed Gm                               nised Gin access   'lots. 131tuitu-    nitsud CM acccss
-   Ii:n b l'ors   rIou te(vs  I:aso lM                    iRiltes.                                Ponds.               olrV(d  S or  ii    K)(UL-.
ii 11.d IsIl4t tal                         tic flLcUI1na                                                                     wide.
I\ioad  .. No di rect                               voldtsat' )'(1.
act  Ei to all                           Nl  dir eCt access
plof. i.                                 Ito jIll pJl.,:t
Dra-inage              - ------- Open e.uth  t!s;miinls witl culvrtu L i iuder roactr as rNquired -                    ----------------
&Scvlri ty   - L;:ri .St im(Lild  Slngle Innp         -  :;UI)P SU:111dalMIJ SI ngio lajIp      Single Lmp            Single Laurp         Single LaNp 0        Sain1l(! Wr-)
Llghtllg   1 x'r! ha. (ltav..  Stntilatrd                  e i /li;t. (Cliavun) SIjuidard 0 2   1 per Ila. on        Standard 0 5         3 pr Ila.            Stundaird 4 5
Iado)             2 per Ha.            et I/11t.but flxed pi!r lt,                Main Roas            per Ila.                                  pr Ila.
I pi r t:i.  bu.t                          1 I,94,11 volzL'i    I
11mt,I on M.1lI           (ill               y lol otiher si Lis
llo(L', otnly I o
flY    4 --Periodic collection by Lusaka Urban District Council ------------------------------------
I'



ZAMBIA
LUSAKA SQUATTER UPGRtADINC AND SITE AIID SERVICES PROJECT
LlEDC FINANCES: General Rate Fund Performance (With Project)
(Decermber 31, 1976-l181
(K ;000)
1976             1977             1978           1')79        1980           1981                  Average
(Actual)         (Actual)         Revised         Rsevised    Revised       (Budgeted)               Growth
(Estlmates)  (Estinuates) (Estimates) (Estimates)                (1976-1981)
Net Expenditure           432746.                            4297419.7    9103.6                       9531.5           t         17.8
Revenues
Rato Income            3395.5          3883.9           6460.0           6717.0    7830.0           8850.0
Personal Levy          1278.1          1447.4_          1350.0           1475.0    1570.0           1600.0
Toral             4673.6          5331.3           7810.0            81-92.0    9400.0        10450.0                 +  18.3
Surplus Deficit
Actual            "3S0.9           767.1_           2357.1,         7"72;_   _296.4_           _918*g_                                            w
Appraisal Efitlmatea 2/1538.0'                                                                         1525.0
(witi proJect)
Appraisal relative to
actual  Preference                                        819.1                                      (606.4)
- Surplus dtdficit)
6 surplus (dleticit) as
of appratsal estimates                                        53.3                                      (40.0)
NOTE:
1. Net expenditure la-gross expenditure for each Ceneral Rata Fund committee, less revenues specificially
received from those commIttees.
2. Calculated at appraisal for only 1978 and 1981 and years prior to 1976.
SOURCE:   LUDC Annual Abstracts and Estimates and Appraisal Report.



- 39 -
ANNEX 4
ZA3BTA
LUSAKA SQUATTER U?GRADrNG AND SITES & SERVICES PROJECT
Economic Reevaluation
1.        The economic rate of return on the various sites in the project as
estimated at appraisal and at completion are as follows:
Number of              Internal Rate
Dwelling Units             of Return
At          At           At            At
Appraisal   ComDletion   Appraisal   Comtletion
Upgraded squatter settlements      17,000       20,000         11.7%       9.9%
Units on new plots serviced
to the same level as                                 b/
upgraded squatter areas           7,600        5,000         27.5%      31.3%
Site and Services Areas
(Site 5 basic)                    1,200          678 -      23.5%       11.5%
Site and Services Areas (Sites
1, 3 and 4 normal low-cost        1,200          955        17.0%       11.8%
Site and Services Areas (Site
6 normal medium cost) c/          2,000           61         na         13.0%
Weighted average                                                         18045%
a/  Figure represents units serviced.  3,000 units were improved.  1,200 of these
were also extended.
b/ Units completed or nearing completion.
c/ Rate was calculated for Site 6 and 8 together at appraisal. Site 8 was found
to be unsuitable for development and was therefore excluded from the project.
2.        Cost breakdowns and assumptions, together with the cost and benefit
streams used in calculating the above rates of return are contained in the project
files.



ZAMBIA
LUSAKA SQUATTER t)PGRADING AND SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE: AT APPRAISAL AND ACTUAL
1974         1976             1975i             1977              1978             1979             j913               IUUI
.  L                       7 3I  03 | 411112|13|14  1S I 16 | 17 |18  19 | 20 | 21 | 22  23 | 24 |2b I 2ti  2 1 28 | 29 | 30
SQUATTP UiIPGRADINQ 
Chaisa                                   _                                       ____-.
Chawana                                        _AWA   _VA                 _____O4WW
Cigepota                                                                              M  _WAW _A . __
OVEHSPlItL AREAS
Cha atlea                                      _       tr___U_  tS____
ChIpa1a                                                         _                              Wut  _____
Gpor"                                                   .A-WA"W  WA-WWA4  dWdWAAW4-W  w4 _ _ _.r_     _^    _       _     J            -a^r~W   r__x
SITE AND SERVICES                                                                                             r
ttaul:   Silt S                   _0'P!.    avv" ..~ .   _ -       ~       _       _          _    _     __ _         _ :t
Normal: Site |                               -
Site3                     __
Silo 4                                    n                  P jW W.A. .V_AW,  Wm,    .W_                 4WiW ,    W._4W
Slia 8         i           ,                                         ,_dw _ _ tw.W.u4rm.] r__ __  __ ___w ___r_
PRIMARY iNFRASTRUCTURE              -
Wazl                                            _-__                                _         _        _ 
Sewerage                                     1.     .    .    , ., . ,,    '___        _,_____ _.__ .W A                                   __ _..m   
Roads/Sgri tbLighting                                                                    1 t  r_    A___      e'_4___ 4W     __ r_,o  Fw   ^
COMMUNITY FACILITIES                                                                                       j
scliuols_._                                                               _                        -J             __
Heaith Clinics                            .                                                                                                          -.4
Other                                                                                     _ _ ____
LIEGIE NPCONTRACT GROUPINGS
_EWMW ODunation as Estimated at Appraisal    IPUI 2  Sits 3,4,,h
W.'-AttuaI D4rtttjon                      OiPU 4 and 4A and 21 - Sewerae
HpU 5, SA, 7. 22 - Hoads enr Street Lighaing
JI1U 26 - Chaip aend Chipattt Upraditg and, Ovarspill
Note; Site 7 wetas iui iluted afj Site a   iPU 14, 15. Iti 17. 23, 24. ?8. 4Q. 29A, 30,31t 32, 33, 33A, 36--OthtrS MiWkelas, Mauiajl S'of5 afmd Conlinuwily Caliter*1
~WUI tIstsk~ 23189



- 41 -
CHART 2
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(Estimates.and Actuals as of 7/81)
20
Appraisal                      Actual
Estimata (US$)                   (USS)
z
E 15//:
ApprasW                     /
I-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
Estimate (K. Equiv             ,"
a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~oi Sak238
go 
10                                                    555
(K. Equivalont)
1974      175       1 a76     1977       197a      1979      1980       1981
Worid Bankc-23188



I                     I
I                       I



ZAM5BIA: LUSAKA
TYPICAL LAYOUT OF UPGRADED
SQUATTER AND OVERSPILL AREAS
Ess  ng .od                        zstng  osng .          ......... OwersoilIIoreo .....  s$       
ProleOt roads            |    ]  G COmaumI focillies      _____WOer more //.                                                             iS   1/! 
6be,.ent seer   W    Smoll   nduePy reserses     /e/  
P  -dfO                                                 e 5 C                                       <D                                                                              _
O  IOJ iCO 300 400 5D0 t.    ' .ds,                 -....... fns
o n haw4 05t-          =     S..l_TJ &Sz /~nt,y



e        .               .          I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1                            Io. Ii



.=rp      so s                      -',  -   I
Iy      stabflizaion  ponds
-_ iL t SAA4                                                                                                                    I--C -
n  NORTH                                                                         e             ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Chelston on, donor ponds
MUTAMSE   s  itse r-    ;                                                -p                 sche       -v                                     A
_ * _ im~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e -                                                                                                                            tt                       A
(7'  ledeperdorse  c ems                                                                        (5)        ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHE L- TON  I
A
-:-<, _< ZAMBIA:LSAK
l-djotriel erso ,.~ sfr4oy         COMPI -N                                      A I=-,~-j tS  &   ;  l                          ROJEC of ZAobe
_',_l&WiG Iale                      ;-A.~ i   ' -¢CffOAhfW-L .. --- tito hih  Sd i dr reors
scheme ,    ,      ,
LLOAKA EAST FORSET PESERVE
ZAMBIA: LUSAKA
PROJECT SITES AND
;W-  ___ ----ter s                            Uipro le seterosots
.               t                                            -                     *     St~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eonag rooksewrvs before the project
'                                                                                                                       ----\  O  Project majorol   frose ervs
- '.__-_  Proect sewaes tmo
j--)    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                               - Mistr mole  hetorbef the project
_    = -     '    *~ ~'-~ -~ ';   Project weatr  mlets
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ae  .-V ,et    th; -p--o-jRec
- t0t e ClasJf  t°r         Stj  . og ge s - betore tee pr sot
0     Project tofrogs reseross
_  mocrosoed pumpirg rapacity
A     Poreboles before tns iprsjec
A  New borehoJso
-----hods before fproject
Prlaict read liks
i--n-i-Railroads
-4                                                       --------------d-K Riser
oi-no?in 0000000500  OOe) hZ 
co  doeonmemnsst.OES00oonrnonnrr    U~c



C            9         rI .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        - .



A                                                                                          '-V N VN\ 51 0 9
OOL                                          )01    Os
T,-_vlqwvz
'17900V W38.91" Ivoil INHOM, llliwvd
WIG wvdv,lazo ads, NO 17,Vld.V "py
v D Ia A v
-Z
72
q, P- -Y--p
P.-P...                      1-- 03
--l' L5 -11(
N    d           H     i   n    o
N                g m  9 V, vv I z
n 0 1 2 W v Z, 0 vv
........ ..
I  i    S      M                  H    i    d    0   N
j
viod
c)
!OtO
d    0        N                                                                                 -Inmloli WVZINVJ
IWMM"
'N3W                               vOn
-1v                                                          19AM,
V  I N  V  2  N  V' i                                                                                                                          ,  :, N
Is W v z
_01                                        9W7



