Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4413 MD 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Poverty Reduction Support Financing) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 2, 200
8
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 2, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
MOLDOVA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, inter alia, (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken 
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy 
framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to six 
million, one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,100,000) 
(variously, “Credit” and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.06.  
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
2
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Association to 
the Recipient. 
 
ARTICLE V - TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Recipient. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Cosmonaut Street, 7 
 
MD 2005 Chisinau 
 
Republic of Moldova 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(37322) 224-0055 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Chisinau, Republic of Moldova, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA 
 
By /s/ Mariana Durlesteanu
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Paul Bermingham  
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following: 
 
Macroeconomic Framework
1. 
The Recipient has implemented prudent macroeconomic policy and has 
maintained a satisfactory macroeconomic framework, consistent with the core 
objectives of the Program, including: (a) an estimated primary (cash) fiscal 
surplus for calendar year 2007; (b) a lower 12-month inflation rate, as of 
December 31, 2007; and (c) a reduced general government debt to Gross 
Domestic Product ( GDP) ratio  as of December 31, 2007. 
 
 
Improving the Investment Climate
1. 
In implementing the transitional provisions of the Law on Basic Principles and 
Mechanism of State Regulation of Business Activity (Law 235-XVI as adopted 
on July 20, 2006 and amended by Law 279-XVI, dated December 14, 2007) the 
Recipient has reduced the regulatory and administrative costs of business 
regulations through the adoption of a Government Decision No. 690, dated June 
18, 2007 and submission to Parliament of a draft law covering amendments to 80 
laws. 
 
2. 
The Recipient has taken steps to promote the further development of agricultural 
markets through the adoption of Decision 282, dated March 11 2008 and of an 
action plan that covers: (i) liberalization of the import regime for seeds and 
seedlings; (ii) improvements in agricultural product standardization and 
certification system; and (iii) development of a market information system. 
Further, implementation of this action plan has commenced. 
 
Improving the Efficiency and Management of Public Sector Resources
1. 
The Recipient has adopted and submitted to Parliament a new Civil Service Law  
(Government Decision No. 1311, dated November 29, 2007) that defines the 
scope of the civil service, contains guiding principles for competitive merit based 
appointments and promotions, posts classification and grading and institutional 
responsibilities for civil service management. 
 
2. 
The Recipient has improved the strategic allocation of public resources through 
the adoption of a strategy for Transportation Infrastructure Management and 
Financing (Government Decision No. 85, dated February 1, 2008) that includes: 
Page  7
6
(i) mechanisms for reform of road financing; (ii) introduction of competition in 
the execution of road maintenance contracts; and (iii) participation of road users 
in the oversight of road maintenance financing. 
 
3. 
The Recipient has advanced reforms to the education sector and the use of public 
resources in that sector by the Ministry of Education and Youth
’s approval of a 
strategy to optimize school networks (published in the Buletinul invatamintului
,
the Ministry of Education and Youth’s information bulletin No. 6 issued in 
2007), initiating consultations with stakeholders on that strategy and undertaking 
preparations for piloting the strategy in two (2) rayons. 
 
Strengthening Social Protection Systems
1. 
The Recipient has advanced the pension system reform program under, among 
others, the Law of the Republic of Moldova on Public Social Insurance System 
No. 489-XIV, dated July 8, 1999 and Law on State Social Security Pension No. 
156, dated October 14, 1998, 2000, by adopting amendments to those laws 
(Government Decision No. 138 of February 11, 2008) ensuring that pension 
payments will be made based on actual individual pension contributions. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set 
out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
 
6,100,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
6,100,000 
C. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree:  (i) all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account at the National Bank of Moldova designated by the 
Recipient and acceptable to the Association; and (ii) the Recipient shall ensure 
that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing into this account at the 
Page  8
7
National Bank of Moldova, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Recipient
’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2008. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
 
On each June 15 and December 15: 
 
commencing June 15, 2018 to and including 
December 15, 2027 
 
1% 
commencing June 15, 2028 to and including 
December 15, 2047 
 
2% 
__________________________________ 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to 
be repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) 
of the General Conditions. 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1.  
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525  
Radioactive 
and 
associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
Page  11
10
 
Group
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and 
watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
2. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
3. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated April 7, 2008 from the Recipient to the Association 
declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
Page  12
11
4. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing. 
 
6. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
Page  13
12
“Eligible Expenditure” means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
 
