Ac iowi
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 06/05/2003
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A. 1. Project Statistics
Country: LITHUANIA                               Project ID: P073242
Project: Vilnius Heat Demand Management Project  Task Team Leader: Victor B. Loksha
Authorized to Appraise Date: December 1, 2000    IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 10, 2003                    IDA Amount ($m).
Global Supplemental Amount (Sm): 6.50
Managing Unit: ECSIE                             Sector: Distnct heating and energy efficiency
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  services (100%)
Status: Appraisal                                Theme: Climate change (P); Municipal governance
and institution building (S); Corporate governance
(S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The GEF's objective in this Project is to reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) from the
Vilnius Distnct Heating System through a targeted effort to remove the existing barriers to energy
conservation. This would be achieved by means of introducing AL DSM measures such as
thermostatically controlled radiator valves, heat meters ("cost allocators"), and other heat demand
management improvements in Vilnius households. Besides direct emission reductions from these
measures, additional benefits would be achieved through avoided disconnections and possibly through
accelerated implementation of the ongoing program of modernizing the heat exchanger substation
network Broader market development objectives of the GEF project are described in the project
document.
I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
Vilniaus Energija (VE), the new management of the Vilnius District Heating Company, took charge of
district heat supply to Vilnius on April 1, 2002. VE is undertaking a long-term and capital-intensive
investment program aimed at modernizing the district heating system through a fundamental design
change to the district heating network and introduction of new equipment VE's investments will be
made, first and foremost, in substation network decentralization designed to reduce losses and improve
the quality of district heat supply. Moreover, VE would like to become part of the emerging energy
efficiency market by launching a new activity directly at the customer's level - an apartment-level
demand-side management (AL DSM) program. This includes the introduction of: (a) thermostatically
controlled radiator valves enabling automatic and consumer-controlled use of heat, and (b) electronic
heat cost allocators on room radiators enabling consumption-based billing of apartments for heat. The
main components of VE's investment program are:
*   Substation modernization including the replacement of all block substations with building-level
substations in more than 2,000 residential apartment buildings,
*   New connections and network development;
*   Replacement of part of the network;
*   Rehabilitation of the heat-only-boilers (HOBs);
*   Construction of a gas pipe interconnecting the heat-and-power plants CHP-2 and CHP-3;
*   The rehabilitation of CHP-3 and the district heating pumping station at CHP-2



2
ISDS
The Vilnius City Municipality (VCM) has expressed a strong interest in implementing
building-envelope improvements of the residential housing stock of the City. In combination with VE's
energy efficiency program for the heating system, VCM's initiative allows to implement a comprehensive
heat demand management program in the City of Vilnius.
The GEF Heat Demand Management Proiect would support and supplement the programs pursued by
both VE and VCM. Under the Project, the GEF would contribute US$ 6.5 million to the establishment of
a broader and more sustainable Energy Conservation Program (ECP) for the City to support
demand-side energy efficiency in residential buildings connected to the district heating system and
engage VE and VCM in the development of an energy efficiency market.
Apartment-Level Demand-Side Management (AL DSM) component - US$ 10 million would be a
5-year program covering some 500-600 apartment buildings in Vilnius, with the possibility of expanding
the program to another similar number of buildings in the following years The AL DSM investments
would include the supply and installation services for thermostatically controlled valves (TCV) and heat
cost allocators (HCA) on room radiators, remote readers for hot water meters, and works for balancing
the heat flow in the risers connecting the substation to the radiators. These measures will allow VE to
introduce billing based on the actual heat consumption by apartment.
ECP Commercial Fund - US$ 3 million. This component would capitalize a revolving fund (run by a
firm contracted by the Municipality) through $3 million worth of demand-side management investments
in 2003-2007. The fund would operate on a financially sustainable basis and would be used for energy
efficiency investments as long as demand exists. The Municipality envisages that most of the investments
will be made in the building-envelope improvements (including window replacement).
Finally, the GEF would finance some technical assistance components such as Monitoring and
Evaluation of Global Benefits and activities related to replication of the project's experience.
I.A 4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project is taking place in Vilnius, Lithuania's capital and largest city with a population of 579,000.
Vilnius has a residential housing stock of 5,700 buildings, of which 85% are supplied with heat from the
district heating system. The average year-round outdoor temperature is 6.4 degrees Celsius, making heat
supply an essential service. Energy consumption for heating purposes is higher than that of westem
countnes with similar climates due to the relatively poor condition of the housing stock.
Heat demand of the city was 2,471 GWh in 1999, with a peak demand of 1,130 MW. This demand was
met by a combination of Combined Heat and Power Plants (CHPs) and Heat only Boilers (HOBs)
operating predominantly on natural gas. The city has two combined heat and power plants, CHP-2 and
CHP-3. CHP-2 was built in the 1950s with an electric capacity of 24 MW and a thermal capacity of 960
MW. CHP-3 was built in the mid-1980s and has an electric capacity of 360 MW and thermal capacity of
570 MW. During the heating season, CHP-3 is the least-cost source of energy as it supplies electricity to
the grid and heat to the district heating network. Five HOBs are currently in operation in Vilnius. Two
of these HOBs service isolated loads in the outskirts of Vilnius. The remaining three HOBs have a
thermal supply capacity of 624 MW.
There are two types of consumer connections to the heat supply network: block (or group) substations
and building-level substations, of which there are 161 and 2,311, respectively. The block substations, in



3
ISDS
turn, supply 2,513 building substations, for a total of 4,824. Block substations provide heat to roughly
60% of district heat consumers. The other 40% are using heat from substations in their buildings; these
substations have an average age of 22 years. The control valves in these substations are manually
operated The production-controlled operation of this design means that the distnct heating system can
not respond to the demands of the customer.
The poor financial condition of the district heating company dunng the 1990s resulted in a worsening of
the quality of service provided. The primary assets have been operating beyond their design life,
decreasing reliability. The wealthier segments of the population were able to cope by seeking out
altemative sources of heat supply. During the late 1990s - early 2000s, the former Vilnius District
Heating Company (VDHC) was losing about 3% of its customer base per year.
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: Environmental Category B was assigned to the project at the stage when is was expected to
include an IBRD loan for the rehabilitation of two major CHPs and five HOBs, Substations and Distribution
Network. The environrmental assessment and the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was therefore
much more comprehensive than the scope of the current self-standing GEF project would require.
Nevertheless, considering that the investments covered by the EMP are still being pursued by the district
heating company receiving the GEF grant, the scope of the existing EMP (Report No. E-450, submutted to
the InfoShop on March 21, 2001 and disclosed in-country on March 22, 2001) is not considered excessive.
The main features of the EMP address the construction phase of the project. Issues include dust, noise, and
proper disposal of non-hazardous wastes. The EMP includes testing for hazardous materials (PCBs) and, if
found in levels exceeding standards, appropriate measures for management are to be taken. During
operation, there are minor issues associated with emissions of S02 and NOx, and leaks/spills of water or
fuel oil. Their proposed management has been found reasonable and entirely adequate. Supplemental EMP
was developed specifically for the new component added to the project - the installation of thermostatic
valves and heat cost allocators in residential apartments in the city of Vilnius. This supplemental EMP was
submitted to InfoShop as an addition to the existing EMP on May 22, 2003.
C Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on E for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
Policy                                 Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)       0 Yes () No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)               (9 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                (9 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  (9 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                              ( Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               (9 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                      ( Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                          ( Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  (9 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*    (9Ycs * No
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions If information is not available,



4
ISDS
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. I a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
There are no major environmental issues associated with the project. On the contrary, the project will
improve air pollution levels by reducing energy consumption and, hence, burning of fuels. Under VE's
program of rehabilitation and modernization of the district heating system, nunor environmental issues
associated with construction activities include dust and noise associated with the movement of men,
machines, and materials and with solid waste management. Asbestos insulation is present in some
components which are to be replaced under the project. At the CHP facilities, there is a possibility that
transformer coolants may be present that contain unacceptable levels of PCB. Preinsulated replacement
pipes mught be manufactured with CFCs or HCFCs. During operation, minor issues include atmospheric
emissions of NOx and S02. The efficiencies realized by project implementation will reduce all these
emissions (as well as C02) from the current levels.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
N/a.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
N/a.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
N/a.
II D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
An environmental mitigation plan has been developed as part of the EMP. Key elements of this plan
(largely the proper disposal of wastes) will be monitored during project supervision. The EMP was
developed when rehabilitation of CHPs, HOBs, Substation and Distribution Network was considered an
integral part of the project. Therefore, the EMP is much more comprehensive than the scope of the
current self-standing GEF project would require. The main features of the EMP address the construction
phase of the project. Issues include dust, noise, and proper disposal of non-hazardous wastes. The EMP
includes testing for hazardous materials (PCBs) and, if found in levels exceeding standards, appropriate
measures for management are to be taken.
According to the EMP, construction activities will be conducted during daytime hours and planned in a
manner to minimize disruption to existing population activity patterns. Dusty areas will be sprinkled with
water. Asbestos will be removed and transported by companies/units duly licensed to perform this work,
and disposed of in an appropriate manner at sites officially approved by the Government to receive such
material If transformer oils are present, they will be tested for PCBs and, if contaminated, they will be
disposed of in accordance with Lithuanian standards. Preinsulated replacement pipes will have foam
insulation prepared with either carbon dioxide or cyclopentane foaming agents. Bid documents will be
required to include this specification. Low-NOx burners and lower sulfur fuel oils will be used to assure
that S02/NOx emission levels will comply with Lithuanian standards, World Bank Guidelines, and EU
Directives. Proper housekeeping measures will be instituted to minimize occurrence of leaks and
subsequent contamination of soil and groundwater.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
For the project originally proposed by VDHC, a survey was undertaken to help design the project based



5
ISDS
on their customers' views. The project was (and still is) designed to decrease the cost of supply, which
will benefit all groups but particularly the poor as heating absorbs a disproportionate component of their
household income. VDHC introduced the project to the public through television interviews, newspaper
and magazine articles. VDHC also prepared a brochure describing the energy efficiency component of
the project (focusing on the building-level substations) and made it available to the public.
With the introduction of apartment-level DSM into the project design, the homeowners will become even
more directly involved in the implementation of the project since they will be the ones faced with the
decision to purchase the DSM equipment. Thus, the new management of the district heating company
(VE) will have to undertake a serious marketing effort in order to succeed in this new market. According
to the Project Manual, VE's Marketing Department will be responsible for: (a) developing and executing
an extemal communications program including promotional material (brochures, letters, etc.), direct
mail, advertising and other activities targeted to current or potential customers; (b) coordinating public
information campaigns on energy efficiency with the Vilnius City Municipality representatives, in
particular when the campaign is targeted to low-income households.
Under the supervision of the Marketing Department, three Client Service Centers have been set up
staffed by a total of 117 staff who report to the Commercial Director. The Centers are located at the VE
Head Office (39 staff), CHP-2 (34 staff) and RK-8 (Baltupiai -34 staff), respectively. HeatManagers
comprise the majority of the Client Service Center staff and act as the point-of-sale contact and pnmary
customer service contact. They are responsible for meeting targets in sales of heat (heat contract) and
maintenance services. Under the Project, they will promote the implementation of the demand-side
management program for VE customers.
E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is detenmned by the highest impact in any policy.
Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.
SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. - No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               5/1/2000       5/16/2000
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           3/5/2001      3/22/2001
Date of submission to InfoShop                            3/12/2001     3/21/2001
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive  Not Applicable Not Applicable
Directors (For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework.                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable



6
ISDS
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                       Date
Task Team Leader:             Victor B. Loksha                           26-Feb-03
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Victor B. Loksha/Person/World Bank    26-Feb-03
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                       Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Alexandre Marc                          27-Feb-03
Sector Manager                Henk Busz                                  27-Feb-03



