                                                     Documentof
                                                 The World Bank

                                            FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                                                                ReportNo: 29169




                                         PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE

                                                    LITHUANIA

                                   VILNIUSDISTRICT HEATING PROJECT

                                                 (LOAN 70740-LT)




                                                    JUNE 3,2004




Infrastructure and Energy Department
Europe and CentralAsia Region

 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
 official duties. Its contents nay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
         (Exchange rate asof May 21,2004)
          CurrencyUnit    = Litas(LTL)
                  US$1      LTL2.88
                   LtL1     US$0.35


                  FISCALYEAR
               January 1 - December 31


        ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS



PCN      Project Completion Note
VDHC     Vilnius District Heating Company




         Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
        Country Director:    Roger W. Grawe
        Sector
            Manager:
                   Henk           Busz
         Task Manager:       Gary Stuggins

                                PROJECT COMPLETIONNOTE

                                            LITHUANIA

                    VILNIUS DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT (LN-70740-LT)


1.      This is the Project Completion Note (PCN) for the Vilnius District Heating Project for the
Republic of Lithuania, approved July 27,2001. The loanwas madeto the Vilnius District
Heating Company (VDHC) with a guaranteeof the Republicof Lithuania. The loan was never
signed and was, at the requestof the guarantor, withdrawn in March 2003.

2.      The principal objectives of theproject were to reduce the cost of heat supply; improve the
quality of supply, both in terms ofreliability of supplyand timeliness ofcustomer
responsiveness; increase tax yields to theGovernment; andsupport commercial viability through
privatization. The Vilnius District Heating Company hadsuffered financially over the decade
prior toproject preparation, resulting in lossof market share ofan environmentally prudent form
of heat supply byusing waste heat from powerplants. The project was designedto stop the
worsening financial performance of the companyand physical deterioration of the network and
support heat supply in a sustainable manner.

3.      The Bank worked closely with therepresentatives of theMunicipality of Vilnius to
prepare the Vilnius heat supply network forprivate sector. As the state of the assets and the
financial circumstances made divestitureunlikely, a concessionarrangement was pursued. Based
on Bankexperience in preparingfor concession arrangements in other countries (particularly for
water supply inAsia and Latin America) it wasexpected that it would take at least two years to
engage the private sector participation. The project was designedto ensure that the heating
system and the company wouldnot deteriorate further during that time period and would fund
high priority investments that would beattractive to any future investor.

4.      However, the Municipality of Vilniuswas able to attract private investment much faster
than had been the experience in other countries. As a result, aconcession arrangement was
finalized withinsix months after Board presentation, much less than the two years originally
expected. Although the winning bidder hadidentified investmentsthat were consistent with the
Bank-funded project, the loan wasnot signed. The Government did not want to use its limited
guarantee capacity for private projects and the bidder was able to arrange alternate financing on
attractive terms and without havingto follow Bank procurementprocedures. In particular, low
cost local financing was facilitatedby thefinancial sector reforms implemented bythe
Government afterthe Russian currency crisisof 1998. Despite thefact that the loan was
withdrawn, the developmental impact     of the Bank intervention is expected to be fully met.

5.      There have been nofollowupenergy loans to Lithuania.

