Page  1
RCA 248423. 
\09
WUI 64145 
\09
FAX (202) 477-6391
 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
June 30, 2003 
 
Ms. Dalia Grybauskaite 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Vilnius 
Republic of Lithuania 
 
Re: 
GEF Trust Fund Grant No. TF050314-LT 
 
(Vilnius Heat Demand Management Project) 
 
Letter of Agreement                                
Dear Ms. Grybauskaite: 
 
We refer to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 (the Resolution) of the Executive 
Directors of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) pursuant to 
which the Bank has established the Global Environment Facility (GEF) consisting of the Global 
Environment Trust Fund (GET), Cofinancing Arrangements with the GET, and the Ozone 
Projects Trust Fund, to assist in the protection of the global environment and thereby, promote 
environmentally sound and sustainable economic development.  Further, we also refer to the 
restructuring of the GEF and the ensuing arrangements on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 
94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive Directors of the Bank, establishing the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant. 
 
We refer also to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement (GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement) of even date herewith between Bank, acting as an Implementing Agency of the GEF 
in respect of grant funds provided by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF, and 
Vilniaus Energija (the Recipient), pursuant to which the Bank has agreed to extend the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to the Recipient to assist in the financing of the above-referenced Project, but only on 
condition that the Republic of Lithuania agree to undertake certain obligations in respect of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant and the Project as are set forth in this Letter of Agreement. 
 
On the basis of the foregoing, we therefore propose that the Republic of Lithuania 
confirm its agreement to the following: 
 
1. 
The provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Currency Pool Loans” of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999), set forth in paragraph (a) of Section 1.01 of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of said Section (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Letter of Agreement; 
 
2. 
Wherever used in this Letter of Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the 
several terms defined in the General Conditions, the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement and this 
Letter of Agreement, have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
3.  
The Republic of Lithuania agrees to and authorizes the making of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant available to the Recipient on the terms and conditions set forth in the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement. 
Page  2
-2-  
 
4. 
The Republic of Lithuania declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Letter of Agreement, shall not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
5. 
The Republic of Lithuania further undertakes to cooperate as necessary with the 
Recipient to ensure that the Project is carried out promptly and effectively, and, for this purpose, 
shall issue appropriate instructions to its officials, agents, and representatives, including, without 
limitation, for the provision of any necessary entry and exit visas, work permits, exchange and 
travel documents required for any contractor, supplier and consultants and their personnel, and 
for the bringing into, and withdrawal from the Republic of Lithuania’s territories, of reasonable 
amounts of foreign currency for purposes related to the Project. 
 
6. 
The Minister of Finance of the Republic of Lithuania is designated as representative of 
the Republic of Lithuania for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions, and the 
following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 thereof: 
 
For the Republic of Lithuania: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
J. Tumo-Vaizganto 8a/2 
Vilnius LT-2600 
Lithuania 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(370 2) 390 109 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI)  
 
Page  3
-3-  
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing, dating and returning to us 
the enclosed copy of this Letter of Agreement. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By: /s/ Mantas Nocius 
Country Manager for Lithuania 
 
CONFIRMED AND AGREED: 
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA 
 
By:  /s/ Dalia Grybauskaite 
 Minister 
of 
Finance 
 
Date: 
July 7, 2003 
 
