Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF052278-LT 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
 
(Vilnius Heat Demand Management Project) 
 
between 
 
VILNIUS CITY MUNICIPALITY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated July 15, 2003 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF052278-LT 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 2003, between  the  INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF and the V
ilnius City Municipality (“VCM”), (the Recipient), a municipality duly 
established and operating under the laws of the Republic of Lithuania and further defined 
in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of this Agreement.  
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the 
Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
(C) 
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the 
basis set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2); 
(D) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding  Parts B, C and D of the 
Project, and said request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the 
Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility 
approved under Resolution 94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the GEF Trust 
Fund under Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds carried over from the first 
replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 94-2;  
(E) 
Part A of the Project will be carried out by Vilniaus Energija (VE), as set 
forth in an agreement of even date herewith between the Bank acting as an implementing 
agency of the GEF and VE hereinafter referred to as the “Vilniaus Energija GEF Grant 
Agreement”;   
(F) 
the Bank has relied on the representations and warranties by the 
Recipient that the Project has been designed and will be implemented in accordance with 
Page  3
-
2
-
the provisions of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change 
(UNFCCC) dated May 9, 1992 and ratified by the Republic of Lithuania on 
March 24, 1995. 
 WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Currency Pools of the Bank, dated 
January 1, 1985, as amended through October 6, 1999, with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (18) 
and (20), 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), (k), (m), (n), (o), and 
(p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(ix) 
the second sentence of Section 10.01 and Sections 10.03 and 
10.4;  
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, 
the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity; 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(iv) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
(vi) 
a new subparagraph (q) is added to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF.” 
(vii) 
Section 10.04 is modified to read as follows: 
"Any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement which 
is not settled by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled 
by arbitration in accordance with the UNCITRAL Arbitration 
Rules in force on the date of this Agreement.  The place of 
Page  5
-
4
-
arbitration shall be Washington, D.C.  In the event of a conflict 
between the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules and the terms of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall govern." 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Demand Side Management Measures” and “DSM Measures” mean  the supply 
and installation services as well as repair works, including window refurbishment and 
replacement, thermal insulation of walls and roofs, and other measures to reduce energy 
losses in the buildings of the Vilnius City under Part B of the Project; 
(b) 
“Energy Conservation Program Commercial Fund Manager” and “ECP 
Fund Manager” mean  the entity hired by VCM under Terms of Reference satisfactory 
to the Bank, to administer the ECP Commercial Fund; 
(c) 
“Energy Conservation Program Commercial Fund” and “ECP 
Commercial Fund” mean  the Fund set up under Part B of the Project; 
(d) 
“Energy Conservation Program Management Board” and “ECP 
Management Board” mean a supervisory body established by the Vilnius City 
Municipality and consisting of at least one representative (chairman) from the Vilnius 
City Municipality, one representative from VE, and one independent representative from 
a
reputable private sector company active in the provision of energy efficiency services in 
Vilnius; 
(e) 
“Energy Conservation Program Manual” and “ECP Manual” mean a 
manual, satisfactory to the Bank, to be adopted and maintained by the Recipient pursuant 
to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such manual may be 
revised from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank; 
(f) 
“Energy Conservation Project” and “EC Project” mean  an EC Proposal 
acceptable to the Bank, proposed by the Purchaser, evaluated and supported by the ECP 
Commercial Fund Manager and approved by the ECP Management Board; 
(g) 
“Energy Conservation Proposal” and “EC Proposal” mean a proposal 
made by a Purchaser, under Part B of the Project to buy DSM Measures from the ECP 
Commercial Fund Manager; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(h) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank, prepared and adopted by the Recipient in accordance with the ECP Manual, 
describing the environmental issues, mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to 
be applied in the implementation of the Project; 
(i) 
“Euro” or “
 
”
means the lawful currency of the member States of the 
European Union that have adopted the single currency in accordance with the Treaty 
Establishing the European Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union; 
(j) 
“GEF Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(k) 
“GEF Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(l) 
“GEF Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement. 
(m) 
“Litas” means the lawful currency of the Republic of Lithuania; 
(n) 
“Municipality” means the Vilnius City Municipality in the Republic of 
Lithuania; 
(o) 
“Purchaser” means a homeowner or a homeowners’ representative 
appointed in accordance with the laws of Lithuania, who applies to the Recipient or its 
ECP Commercial Fund Manager for the purchase of DMS Measures; 
(p) 
“Sales Contract” means the agreement referred to in paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to be entered into between the ECP Commercial Fund 
Manager and a Purchaser; 
(q) 
Vilniaus Energija” and “VE” means UAB Vilniaus Energija, a private 
limited company engaged in heating and energy efficiency services, duly established and 
operating in the Republic of Lithuania pursuant to the registration dated 
January 25, 2002, carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Law on registration 
of enterprises of the Republic of Lithuania, or any successor thereto. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE II 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount equivalent to  four million Dollars ($4,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out of Parts B, 
C
and D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant. 
(b)  
The Recipient may, for the purposes of  Parts B, C and D of  the Project, 
open and maintain in Euros a special account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts 
B, C and D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, engineering, environmental, financial and district heating 
management practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors as set 
forth, 
inter alia
,
in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and 
the Kyoto Protocol to said Convention, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry 
out Parts B, C and D of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to the this Agreement. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for Parts B, C and D of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Conditions 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall and shall cause the Fund Manager to 
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to 
register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall and shall cause its Fund Manager to: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts for the Project, GEF Special 
Account and ECP Commercial Fund for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements and report of such audit, by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
Page  9
-
8
-
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall 
and shall cause the Fund Manager to: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall 
and shall cause the Fund Manager to prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial 
monitoring report (FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the GEF Trust Fund Grant and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of such 
funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
Page  10
-
9
-
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty
–five 
(45) days after the end of the first quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first quarter, thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such quarter.
 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified, namely that the law establishing the Municipality shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, materially 
and adversely, the ability of the Recipient to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness, Termination
 
Section 
6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
The Vilniaus Energija GEF Grant Agreement has been executed and 
delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness have been fulfilled.  
(b) 
The Recipient shall have established the Energy Conservation Program 
Management Board, with composition and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  11
-
10
-
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Mayor of Vilnius City Municipality is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 
7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
Vilnius City Municipality 
Gedimino Avenue, 9 
LT-2600 Vilnius 
 
Republic of Lithuania 
 
Facsimile: 
370-5-212 6123 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
64145 
(MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Vilnius, Republic of Lithuania, as of the day and year first above written. 
VILNIUS CITY MUNICIPALITY  
Page  12
-
11
-
By: /s/ Arturas Zuokas 
 Authorized Representative 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By: /s/ Mantas Nocius 
Authorized Representative 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant 
% of 
 
Allocated Expenditures 
 
Category
(Expressed in US Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
 
 
 
80% 
 
for DSM Measures 
 
(a) Phase I 
1,500,000 
(b)  Phase II 
1,500,000 
 
 
(2) Commercial 
Fund 
500,000 
82% 
 
Management Services       
 
(3) 
Consultants’ Services 
400,000 
82% 
  
 
including Audits 
 
(4) 
Incremental Operating 
100,000 
82% 
  
 
Costs 
 ________ 
 
TOTAL 4,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term: 
(a) 
 "Incremental Operating Costs" means the reasonable cost and expenses 
incurred by the Recipient, in respect of the implementation of Parts B, C and D of the 
Project  
for contractual staff, office equipment and supplies, office rent, 
telecommunication, bank charges for the special account, transportation, advertising, 
marketing, representation, public relations and other public outreach efforts; and  
(b) 
“Works for DSM Measures” means the repair works, supply and 
installation of equipment associated with window refurbishment and replacement, 
Page  14
-
13
-
thermal insulation of walls and roofs, and other measures for reducing energy losses in 
the buildings of Vilnius City. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, 
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 may be made on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after May 1, 2003; 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures under Category 1(a) or 1(b) until:  (i)  
the Recipient has hired an ECP Fund Manager under Terms of Reference satisfactory to 
the Bank; (ii) the Bank has conducted an assessment of the capacity of the ECP Fund 
Manager and found it satisfactory; and (iii) the Recipient has submitted an ECP Manual 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(c) 
payments made for expenditures under Category 1(b), until the Bank 
shall have notified the Recipient of its receipt of a satisfactory mid-term review report 
prepared in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 8(b) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and including information on commitment of funds from sources other than 
the GEF: 
(i) 
in amount not less than $1,500,000 equivalent for contribution 
towards expenditures incurred under Category 1(a) of the 
Project; and 
(ii) 
in amount not less than $1,500,000 for contributions towards 
expenditures that will be incurred under Category 1(b). 
4. 
(a) 
Subject to paragraph 4(b) below, the Bank may require withdrawals from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure 
for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each; (b) consultants’ firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; 
(c) individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and 
(d) all Incremental Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.   
(b) 
Withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall not be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts that are 
covered by the provisions of Section I, Part D.2 and Section II, Part D.2, both of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  15
-
14
-
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, and/or without the consent of the Bank, the Recipient shall 
or shall cause the Fund Manager, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount 
so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases 
from the Vilnius District Heating System through reducing the barriers to, and 
implementing, financially sustainable energy efficiency investments in the residential 
buildings of the Vilnius City. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
Apartment-Level Demand-Side Management
Supply and installation of equipment, including thermostatically-controlled 
radiator valves, electronic heat cost allocators and remote readers for hot water meters. 
Part B.
Energy Conservation Program Commercial  Fund
1.  
Provision of financing through the Energy Conservation Commercial Fund for 
the supply and installation of equipment outlined in selected proposals on a commercially 
sustainable basis, to promote energy efficiency improvements in the residential sector in 
Vilnius. 
2. 
Provision of financing for the services of a Manager responsible for the overall 
administration of the Energy Conservation Commercial Fund. 
Part C
Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
Monitoring and evaluating the Project through development and application of a 
monitoring protocol; and 
2. 
Disseminating project information to the public, existing national and international 
networks of experts and agencies engaged in energy efficiency projects.  
Page  17
-
16
-
Part D
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance, including audit services, for managing Project 
implementation. 
*** 
The Project is expected to be completed by  December 31, 2007.   
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Works
Part A
:
General
Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.  
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.3 and 
3.4 of the Guidelines and the following provisions: 
(a) 
On an annual basis, the Recipient, or the ECP Commercial Fund 
Manager acting on behalf of the Recipient, shall advertise nationally requests for bids for 
works required for the implementation of Part B of the Project.  
(b) 
Based on the bids received, the Recipient, or the ECP Commercial Fund 
Manager acting on behalf of the Recipient, shall: 
(i) 
prepare a list of contractors consisting of responsive suppliers 
offering the first three lowest bids, provided that each bid does 
not exceed 15% of the lowest bid price; and 
Page  19
-
18
-
(ii) 
with respect to said list of responsive contractors, finalize the 
terms and conditions and accepted prices for a period of not less 
than one year.  
(c) 
The Recipient, or the ECP Commercial Fund Manager acting on behalf 
of the Recipient, shall contract with the lowest priced contractor from the said list, or the 
next lowest priced supplier, in accordance with the provisions of sub-paragraph (d) 
below, provided that no contract may exceed an amount equivalent to US$2,000,000. 
(d) 
The Recipient, or the ECP Commercial Fund Manager acting on behalf of the 
Recipient, shall contract with the next lowest priced contractor if the lowest priced 
contractor would be unable to meet the delivery schedule. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to all contracts to be procured in accordance with 
International Competitive Bidding under Part B of this Section, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first three contracts in the first year and the first 
contract in the second and following years, to be procured in accordance with national 
competitive bidding procedures under Part C of this Section, the following procedures 
shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the issuance of bid documents, the Recipient shall 
provide to the Bank draft bid documents for its review; 
(ii) 
prior to the selection of any contractor under national 
competitive bidding procedures in accordance with Parts C (a) 
Page  20
-
19
-
and (b) of this Section, the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a 
bid evaluation report for its review; 
(iii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under Parts C (c) 
and (d) of this Section, the Recipient shall provide to the Bank 
the draft contract; and 
(iv) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for energy audit of buildings and investment 
planning, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  21
-
20
-
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services under Part D, of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third sub-
paragraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply to the following: 
(i) 
each contract for the employment of consulting firms to be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Part B.1 of this 
Section; and 
(ii) 
the first contract in each year to be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section. 
Page  22
-
21
-
(b) 
With respect to all consultants’ contracts, the qualifications, experience, 
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said 
approval shall have been given. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
 
Management of the Project
1. 
The Recipient shall establish and maintain an Energy Conservation Program 
Management Board, established pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01(b) of this 
Agreement, as a special Working Group, to be overall responsible for, inter alia, 
coordinating, supervising and monitoring the implementation of  the Project. 
Energy Conservation Program Manual
2. 
With respect to Part B of the Project, the Recipient shall:  
(a) 
hire an ECP Commercial Fund Manager in accordance with the 
Bank’s 
Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants outlined in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(b)  
adopt, and maintain in effect, a manual of operations (ECP Manual), 
consistent with the business plan developed by the selected ECP Commercial Fund 
Manager and acceptable to the Bank, which manual shall include: (i) eligibility criteria 
for Purchasers, EC Proposals and appraisal of EC Proposals; (ii) procedures for the 
approval of EC Proposals; (iii) terms and conditions for the sale of DSM Measures; and 
(iv) procedures for the sale and installation of DSM Measures under approved  EC 
Proposals; 
(c) 
thereafter, to carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with such 
manual as shall have been approved by the Bank and, inter alia, promote, review and 
facilitate the approval of EC Proposals, monitor and supervise approved EC Proposals, all 
in accordance with the criteria, conditions and procedures set out in the ECP Manual; and 
(d) 
not to amend, delete, suspend, or waive any part of the ECP Manual, 
without the prior approval of the Bank.  
ECP Commercial Fund Management Contract
3. 
For purposes of carrying out Part B (2) of the Project, the Recipient shall:  
Page  24
-
23
-
(a) 
enter into an agreement with an entity and on terms and conditions, 
acceptable to the Bank, whereby said entity shall act as an agent for the Recipient for 
purposes of, inter alia:  
(i) 
carrying out technical, financial, and economic appraisals of EC 
Proposals and presenting them to the ECP Management Board 
for approval; 
(ii) 
carrying out energy audits of buildings proposed for EC Projects; 
(iii) 
conducting procurement of goods, installation services and 
works necessary to implement the EC Projects on behalf of the 
Recipient;  
(iv) 
implementing EC Projects approved by the ECP Management 
Board in accordance with the provisions of the ECP Manual; 
(v) 
monitoring and supervising the implementation of EC Projects;  
(vi) 
executing a marketing program for ECP and its products; and 
(vii) 
operating the ECP Commercial Fund in a financially prudent and 
sustainable manner, realizing a sufficient return on the 
investments made in the EC Projects to e
nable the Fund’s 
operation on an ongoing basis. 
(b) 
not amend, delete, suspend, or waive any part of the ECP Commercial 
Fund Management Contract, without the prior approval of the Bank.  
Sales Contracts
4. 
For purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the ECP Commercial Fund 
Manager shall:  
 
(a) 
After an EC Proposal has been approved and prior to delivering and 
installing any DSM Measures to the Purchaser, enter into a Sales Contract with said 
Purchaser, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including those set out in the 
ECP Manual, which terms and conditions shall include the following: 
Page  25
-
24
-
(i) 
The sale price shall be paid by the Purchaser in Litas over a 
period specified in the ECP Manual in an amount equal to: 
(A) the cost of the DSM Measures purchased; and (B) plus a 
service charge, to be determined in accordance with the 
provisions of the ECP Manual.   
(ii) 
An initial payment shall be made by the Purchaser prior to installation of the 
DSM Measures in an amount to be determined in accordance with criteria outlined in the 
ECP Manual. 
(iii) 
In implementing an approved EC Proposal, a Purchaser shall 
undertake to take, or cause to be taken, all actions necessary or 
appropriate to enable the Recipient to carry out abatement 
measures, if applicable, in accordance with provisions of the 
Environmental Management Plan set out in the ECP Manual. 
(iv) 
The Purchaser, upon reasonable request by the Recipient or the 
Bank, shall cooperate in (A) enabling the Recipient or the Bank 
to inspect the DSM Measures purchased under its Sales 
Contract; and (B) furnishing all such information requested 
relating to the foregoing and to the benefits derived from the EC 
Project. 
(b) 
Exercise its rights in relation to each Sales Contact in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Bank and the Recipient and achieve the objectives of the 
Project. 
 
(c) 
Not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its rights under a Sales 
Contract, or any provision thereof, without the prior approval of the Bank. 
Use of  Proceeds under Sales Contracts
5. 
The Recipient shall utilize all monies received from a Purchaser under a Sales 
Contract to finance additional EC Projects, in accordance with the provisions of the ECP 
Manual. 
Page  26
-
25
-
Rate of Disbursement
6. 
The Recipient shall maintain, on an annual basis, a ratio of the amount of the 
GEF Grant proceeds disbursed under Category 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to  an 
amount equal to the aggregate of sale prices of DSM Measures for which Sale Contracts 
have been signed by the ECP Commercial Fund Manager and the Purchasers, of not more 
than 1.2. 
Environmental Management Plan
7. 
When installing and implementing DSM Measures that have been approved under 
an EC Proposal, the Recipient shall carry out abatement measures, if applicable, in a timely 
manner and keep adequate information on the carrying out of such measures in accordance 
with the Environmental Management Plan as set forth in the ECP Manual. 
Monitoring and Reporting
8. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of Parts B, C, and D of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about June 1, 2006, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 8(a) above, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of Parts B, C and D of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of Parts B, C and D of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank on June 30, 2006, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph 8(b) above, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Parts B, C and D of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of 
said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories means Categories 1, 2, 3 and 4 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Project; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$400,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $200,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Page  28
-
27
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Categories and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Page  29
-
28
-
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories   
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the   Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
 
