Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF050314-LT 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Vilnius Heat Demand Management Project) 
 
between 
 
VILNIAUS ENERGIJA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated July 15, 2003 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF050314-LT 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 2003, between  the  INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF and VILNIAUS ENERGIJA (the Recipient), a private limited company duly
 
established and operating under the laws of the Republic of Lithuania and further defined 
in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of this Agreement.  
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the 
Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
(C) 
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the 
basis set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2); 
(D) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding  Part A  of the Project, 
and said request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the 
Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility 
approved under Resolution 94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the GEF Trust 
Fund under Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds carried over from the first 
replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 94-2;  
(E) 
Parts B, C and D of the Project will be carried out by the Vilnius City 
Municipality, as set forth in an agreement of even date herewith between  the Bank acting 
as an implementing agency of the GEF and Vilnius City Municipality (the Municipality 
GEF Grant Agreement);   
(F) 
the Bank has relied on the representations and warranties by the 
Recipient that the Project has been designed and will be implemented in accordance with 
Page  3
-
2
-
the provisions of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change 
(UNFCCC) dated May 9, 1992 and ratified by the Republic of Lithuania on 
March 24, 1995. 
 WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Currency Pools of the Bank, dated 
January 1, 1985, as amended through October 6, 1999, with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (18) 
and (20), 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), (k), (m), (n), (o), and 
(p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(ix) 
the second sentence of Section 10.01 and Sections 10.03 and 
10.4;  
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, 
the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity; 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(iv) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
(vi) 
a new subparagraph (q) is added to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF.” 
(vii) 
Section 10.04 is modified to read as follows: 
"Any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement which 
is not settled by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled 
by arbitration in accordance with the UNCITRAL Arbitration 
Rules in force on the date of this Agreement.  The place of 
Page  5
-
4
-
arbitration shall be Washington, D.C.  In the event of a conflict 
between the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules and the terms of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall govern." 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Apartment-Level Demand-Side Management Equipment” and “AL DSM 
Equipment” mean thermostatically-controlled radiator valves, electronic heat cost 
allocators on room radiators, remote readers for hot water meters and any other equipment 
mutually agreed by the Recipient and the Bank, to be supplied and installed by the 
Recipient or its duly selected contractor in residential apartment buildings in the City of 
Vilnius; 
(b) 
“An Applicant” means a homeowner and homeowner’s representative, 
appointed in accordance with the laws of Lithuania, who submits an application to the 
Recipient for installation of AL DSM Equipment in the apartments and related works in 
the building; 
(c) 
“Beneficiary” means an applicant who has been approved to receive AL 
DSM equipment; 
(d) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank, prepared and adopted by the Recipient describing the environmental issues, 
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be applied in the implementation of 
the Project; 
(e) 
“GEF Eligible Categories” means categories 1(a) and 1(b)  set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(f) 
“GEF Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods including 
installation referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(g) 
 “Litas” means the lawful currency of the Republic of Lithuania; 
(h) 
“Low-Income Homeowner” means a homeowner whose income is 
defined as low by the Vilnius City Municipality pursuant to Lithuanian law. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(i) 
“Low-Income Family” means a family whose income is defined as low 
by the Vilnius City Municipality  pursuant to Lithuanian law; 
(j) 
“Municipality” means the municipality of the City of Vilnius in the 
Republic of Lithuania; 
(k) 
“Operational Manual” means a manual satisfactory to the Bank to be 
adopted and maintained by the Recipient setting forth the operational and administrative 
procedures and rules related to Project implementation as the same may be amended from 
time to time; 
(l) 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement for the supply and installation of 
AL DSM equipment referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 of this Agreement; 
(m) 
“Vilniaus Energija” and “VE” mean UAB Vilniaus Energija, a private 
limited company engaged in heating and energy efficiency services, duly established and 
operating in the Republic of Lithuania pursuant to the registration dated 
January 25, 2002, carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Law on registration 
of enterprises of the Republic of Lithuania,  or any successor thereto. 
ARTICLE II 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount equivalent to two million and five hundred thousand Dollars ($2,500,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for carrying out of Part A of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part A 
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, engineering, environmental, financial and district heating management 
practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors as set forth, 
inter 
alia
,
in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto 
Protocol to said Convention, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry 
out Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to the this Grant Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
a
nd
consultants’ services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
Page  8
-
7
-
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and accounts for the Project for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements and report of such audit, by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall   
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report (FMR), in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the GEF Trust Fund Grant and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of such 
funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
Page  9
-
8
-
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty
–five 
(45) days after the end of the first quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such quarter.
 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
(a) 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events is specified, namely that the registration dated 
January 25, 2002, establishing the Recipient, in accordance with the provisions of the law 
on registration of enterprises in Lithuania or it’s successor thereto shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, materially and 
adversely, the ability of the Recipient to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement.  
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness, Termination
 
Section 
6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
The Municipality GEF Grant Agreement has been executed and 
delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness have been fulfilled.  
(b) 
The Recipient has executed a Subsidiary Agreement with at least one 
Beneficiary in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The President of the Recipient is designated as representative of the 
Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 
7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
UAB Vilniaus Energija 
Smolensko 12 
LT-2600 Vilnius 
 
Republic of Lithuania 
 
Facsimile: 
 
370-5-213 0702 
 
For the Bank: 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
64145 
(MCI) 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Vilnius, Republic of Lithuania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
VILNIAUS ENERGIJA 
By:  /s/ Jean Sacreste 
 
 Authorized Representative 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
By: /s/ Mantas Nocius 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant 
% of 
 
Allocated Expenditures 
 
Category
(US Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
AL DSM equipment supply  
and installation 
 
(a) Phase I 
1,250,000 
25% 
 
(b) Phase II 
1,250,000
25% 
 
TOTAL 2,500,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above: 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for 
expenditures under Category 1(b) until the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
receipt of evidence satisfactory to the Bank of the following: 
(i) 
a
mid-term review report prepared in accordance with the 
provision of paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement  
demonstrating successful preliminary results of implementing 
Part A of the Project and the existence of favorable conditions 
for the expansion of the Project activities to additional residential 
buildings; and 
Page  13
-
12
-
(ii) 
commitments by the Recipient beginning no later than the 
completion of the Project to provide additional funds (from 
sources other than the GEF) necessary for the expansion of the 
Project activities. 
3. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent 
with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Bank, refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount 
equal to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases 
from the Vilnius District Heating System through reducing the barriers to, and 
implementing, financially sustainable energy efficiency investments in the residential 
buildings of the Vilnius City. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A.
Apartment-Level Demand-Side Management
Supply and installation of equipment, including thermostatically-controlled 
radiator valves, electronic heat cost allocators and remote readers for hot water meters. 
Part B.
Energy Conservation Program Commercial  Fund
1.  
Provision of financing through the Energy Conservation Commercial Fund for 
the supply and installation of equipment outlined in selected proposals on a commercially 
sustainable basis, to promote energy efficiency improvements in the residential sector in 
Vilnius. 
 2.  
Provision of financing for the services of a Manager responsible for the overall 
administration of the Energy Conservation Commercial Fund. 
Part C.
Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
Monitoring and evaluating the Project through development and application of a 
monitoring protocol; and 
2. 
Disseminating project information to the public, existing national and international 
networks of experts and agencies engaged in energy efficiency projects.  
Page  15
-
14
-
Part D.
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance, including audit services, for managing Project 
implementation. 
*** 
The Project is expected to be completed by  December 31, 2007.   
 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured under a supply and installation contract awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in 
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under a supply and installation contract awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.  
Part C:
Other Procurement Methods
Contracts for supply and installation of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or less per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded: (i) in 
accordance with established commercial practices acceptable to the Bank;  and (ii) which 
shall ensure that works are purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken of other 
relevant factors such as the time of delivery and their quality and the competence of the 
parties rendering them.  
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decision
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
Page  17
-
16
-
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for the supply and installation of goods under Part 
A
of the Project, the procedures set forth in paragraph 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.  
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Institutional Arrangements
1.  
The Recipient shall designate its Department of Marketing and Business 
Development with the responsibility for implementation of Part A of the Project, 
including executing an external communications program, marketing, sales, maintenance 
of Project accounts, preparation of FMRs and shall ensure that said Department at all 
times has adequate staff and resources to fulfill its responsibilities with respect to Project 
implementation.  
2. 
 In order to ensure the overall coordination of Project activities, the Recipient 
shall,
 subject to the Municipality’s approval, participate on the Energy Conservation 
Program Management Board.  
Project Monitoring
1.  
The Recipient shall: 
(a)  
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with  indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about June 1, 2006, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of Part A of the  Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of  Part A of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date;  
(c) 
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2006, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part A of the  Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter; and 
Page  19
-
18
-
Subsidiary Agreement 
2. 
For purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall:  
 
(a) 
after receiving an application for an AL DSM Equipment and prior to 
delivering and installing any AL DSM Equipment assigned to a Beneficiary, enter into a 
Subsidiary Agreement with said Beneficiary on terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Bank, which terms and conditions shall include the following: 
(i) 
a connection fee to be paid by the Beneficiary in Litas prior to 
installation of AL DSM Equipment, in an amount equal to 
twenty-five percent (25%) of the price of AL DSM Equipment, 
including installation; and 
(ii) 
a maintenance fee to be paid in Litas by the Beneficiary on a 
monthly basis. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph 2 above, a Beneficiary shall 
be exempt from paying the connection fee if the Beneficiary provides documentary 
evidence satisfactory to the Recipient establishing that the Beneficiary is a Low-Income 
Homeowner. 
2. 
The Recipient shall undertake, at all times, to maintain and operate AL DSM 
equipment installed under a Subsidiary Agreement, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs thereof in accordance with sound engineering and industry practices. 
3. 
The Recipient shall cause the Beneficiary, upon reasonable request by the 
Recipient or the Bank, to cooperate in (A) enabling the Recipient or the Bank to inspect 
the AL DSM Equipment purchased and installed pursuant to the Subsidiary Agreement; 
and (B) furnishing all such information requested relating to the foregoing and to the 
benefits derived from the operation of the AL DSM Equipment. 
4. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
exercise its rights in relation to each Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and the Beneficiary of AL 
DSM equipment and achieve the objectives of the Project. 
(ii) 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its rights under a Subsidiary 
Agreement, or any provision thereof, without the prior approval of the 
Bank. 
Page  20
-
19
-
(iii) 
keep an accurate record of quantities of AL DSM Equipment supplied 
and installed in the apartments.  
Environmental Management Plan
5. 
In installing AL DSM equipment or measures, the Recipient shall undertake to 
take or cause to be taken all actions necessary or appropriate to carry out abatement 
measures, if applicable, in accordance with the provision of the Environmental 
Management Plan set out in the Operational Manual. 
 
