Report No. PID11471
Project Name             MOLDOVA-AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION CONTROL...
PROJECT
Region                   Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                   General agriculture; fishing and forestry
sector (80%); General
public administration sector (20%-)
Project ID               P075995
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF MOLDOVA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF ECOLOGY,
CONSTRUCTION AND TERRITORIAL DEVELOPMEN
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        September 10, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      February 20, 2003
Bank Approval Date       September 25, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Main Sector Issues: Agriculture is the mainstay of Moldova's economy
contributing some 25W to   GDP, providing 40% of employment and 65% of
exports. There are some 2.3 million hectares of agricultural land of
which 819 is arable, 9% comprise orchards and vineyards, and 10% pastures.
In all there are approximately 400,000 individual farms. Since
independence in 1991, Moldova's agriculture sector has performed poorly
with declines in production, productivity and exports. Most of the
decline is the result of lower productivity with yields down 20-60% due to
withdrawal of subsidies and consequent reduction in input use. Despite
the poor performance, progress with policy reform and land privatization
provide a platform for recovery. With recovery will come increased input
use and to pre-empt that, it is important to promote the adoption of
environment-friendly practices at this stage of development which will
also have the added benefit of raising farm incomes. Key policy,
structural and institutional issues and constraints identified in the
"Agricultural Strategy for Moldova - Accelerating Recovery and Growth"
include: weak institutional capacity and lack of regulatory enforcement;
slow transformation of the agro-processing sector; and weak farm-level
organization. Environmental Issues: During the last few decades, the
Black Sea suffered severe environmental damage, mainly due to coastal
erosion, eutrophication, insufficiently treated sewage, conversion of
wetlands, increased nutrient run-off from agriculture, introduction of
exotic species, and inadequate resource management all of which led to a
decline of its biological diversity, loss of habitat and long-term
ecological changes. Black Sea Environmental Program (BSEP) studies
revealed that 58% of the total nitrogen and 66% of the total phosphorous
flowing in dissolved form into the Black Sea come from the Danube river
basin. More than half of all nutrient loads into the Danube river
originate from agriculture, about one-fourth from private households and
about 10-13% from industry.   The entire territory of Moldova (33,700 sq
km) lies in the Black Sea Basin.   About 34 % of the country drains into



the Prut River, a tributary of the Danube, approximately 60% into the
Nistru (Dniester) River and the rest into a series of small rivers that
empty directly into the Black Sea. For over five decades under the former
Soviet Union, unsustainable land use, excessive application of inputs,
such as fertilizers, and use of heavy machinery resulted in severe
degradation of the land and environment (notably soil, water and
biodiversity). Large cattle, pig and poultry farms were established near
rivers that lacked efficient manure management practices. Since
independence in 1991, the continued lack of efficient manure management
practices is having significant implications for groundwater pollution and
drinking water supply for rural settlements in Moldova. Annual run-off
from manure is estimated at 10.5 thousand tons for nitrogen and 2.5
thousand tons for phosphorus (Nutrient Balancer for Prut River Basin
Project, 1994). Samples analysed from about 70% of shallow wells which
are the main source of drinking water supply for rural communities
revealed nitrogen concentrations in excess of the maximum acceptable
levels. (UN/ECE. The Republic of Moldova: Environment Performance Review.
Geneva, 1998)The absence of on-farm environmental management,
environmentally unsustainable crop and soil management practices,
over-exploitation and illegal cutting of forests, over-grazing and
mismanagement of wetlands are also exacerbating the problem of nutrient
run-off into the country's waterbodies. Currently, more than 400,000
hectares of the private farms and farming associations are moderately or
highly degraded. Soil erosion washes away an estimated 10 million tons of
fertile soil annually. From the Prut River basin alone, approximately
12.5 thousand tons of nitrogen and 1.5-2.0 thousand tons of phosphorus are
being discharged each year. Government Strategy: Agricultural pollution
control and wetland ecosystem protection are considered priorities by the
Government of Moldova as documented in the following: (i) National Program
of Strategic Actions for the Environmental Protection for 1995-2020
(1995); (ii) National Environmental Action Plan for 1996-1998 (1996),
which included a program of activities to reduce or prevent pollution
through better environmental management and sustainable use of natural
resources; (iii) Governmental Strategy of Sustainable Development of the
Republic of Moldova (2000) which emphasized sound agricultural practices,
restoration and rational use of natural resources, elimination of
pollution sources, water quality control, and waste management as national
priorities, and (iv) Biodiversity Conservation Strategy and Action Plan
(2001). A key part of government's overall strategy for agriculture is
the development of post-privatization agricultural support services as
well as on-farm environmental management aimed at creating an enabling
environment to fully realize the sector's potential. Towards this, the
Ministry of Ecology, Construction and Territorial Development (MECTD) and
the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industries (MAFI) support the APCP as
strongly complementing the Rural Investment Services Project (RISP). The
combined program of grants (APCP) & credits (RISP credit lines) will allow
the Government of Moldova to mainstream environmental and pubic health
considerations into its agricultural sector, and the synergy of such an
approach will bring about greater benefits globally, regionally and
locally vis-a-vis independent, discrete agricultural and environmental
projects.
2. Objectives
The overall project development objective is to increase significantly the
use of environmentally friendly agricultural practices by farmers and
-2 -



agro-industry and thereby reduce nutrient discharge from agricultural
sources in Moldova to the Danube River and Black Sea. In support of this
objective, the project will assist the Government of Moldova to: (i)
promote the adoption of mitigating measures by farmers and agro-industry
for reducing the nutrient loads entering the water bodies; (ii) strengthen
national policy, regulatory enforcement and institutional capacity for
agricultural nutrient pollution control and organic farming; and (iii)
promote a public awareness campaign and replication strategy. The
proposed project would provide a mix of investments and policy related
activities to mainstream environmental concerns in the agriculture
sector.   It would be implemented in close association with the US$39.5
million IDA-funded Rural Investment and Services Project (RISP) and would
harness the synergies between the two projects, assisting farmer and
agro-industry beneficiaries of RISP to put in place the mitigating
measures necessary to reduce nutrient discharge. The proposed project
would also assist the Government of Moldova in harmonizing its legislative
framework with relevant European Union (EU) directives and in honouring
its international commitments to reduce nutrient loads to the Danube River
and Black Sea. The proposed Agricultural Pollution Control Project (APCP)
is one in a series of pilot projects addressing non-point source
pollution in agriculture that have been successfully launched in several
Black Sea riparian countries, including Bulgaria, Georgia and Romania. It
will assist Moldova to meet its international commitments to reduce
nutrient loads to the Danube River and the Black Sea from its territory.
Project Global Environmental Objectives: The ultimate goal is to reduce
the discharge of nutrients into the Danube River and Black Sea through
integrated land and water management. Project activities are directly
linked to the "Strategic Action Plan for the Protection and Rehabilitation
of the Black Sea" (BSSAP), formulated with the assistance of the Global
Environment Facility (GEF). BSSAP has identified nutrient discharge from
agricultural sources as the most serious problem facing the Black Sea. The
Project's objective of reducing non-point source pollution is consistent
with OP No. 8, Water-body based Operational Program, which focuses mainly
on threatened water bodies and the most important trans-boundary threats
to their ecosystems.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The principal value added of GEF support for the Project comes from
providing additional funds to address trans-boundary water problems in the
Black Sea. GEF funds will help reduce the barriers to farmers adopting
environment-friendly agricultural practices and allow the Government to
consider scaling-up the program. Without GEF support to coordinate these
activities, Moldova might undertake a series of small activities in
different parts of the country to address the issues and lack a mechanism
to coordinate the financing, approaches and geographical targeting of
activities. GEF funds will help to achieve high level policy commitment
to the need for environmentally sustainable agricultural practices while
supporting "on-the-ground" investments. GEF funds will also leverage Bank
funds from RISP to mainstream environmental concerns in nation-wide
agricultural projects. The GEF has already added value by supporting the
Romania and Ukraine Danube Delta Biodiversity Conservation Projects,
Poland Rural Environmental Project, Georgia Agricultural Research,
Extension and Training (ARET) Project, in addition to the Black Sea
Partnership Program, Danube River Basin Environment Program and Danube
Pollution Reduction Program, as well as the recently launched Romania
- 3 -



Agricultural Pollution Control Project. Given their international scope,
the GEF and the Bank can provide funds to cover the incremental costs of
replicating such activities within Moldova and in other countries in the
Region.
4. Description
Project Scope: The project would be closely associated with the IDA
credit-financed Rural Investment and Services Project (RISP) that has
recently become effective for a US$39.5 million IDA credit. RISP will
provide post privatization support to increase rural incomes and living
standards by promoting rural entrepreneurship, agricultural production,
economic diversification, and trade in the rural areas. These objectives
will be achieved through the provision of technical and financial
assistance. The project will have both institutional beneficiaries, e.g.
local NGOs of advisory and extension agencies, service providers, etc. and
a broad range of private entrepreneurs in rural areas. APCP will comprise
a GEF-funded environmental addition to the RISP with the objective of
mainstreaming environmental considerations into agricultural activities
undertaken by RISP. It would provide partial grants to RISP borrowers to
enable them to reduce nutrient loads to the Danube river and Black Sea
that might arise out of their RISP-funded activities.Project Area:
Project actions will be implemented at two levels. First, country-wide in
conjunction with RISP where the 400,000 farms (on 2.3 million ha), whether
farmed individually or in association, as well as agro-processors would be
potential beneficiaries of information on, and investments in
environment-friendly practices.    Second, at a selected pilot watershed
area in the Lapusna Judet (county) about 30km south west of Chisinau. The
pilot watershed area covers eight comunas and comprises about 50,000
hectares with a population of more than 43,000, or 14,000 households, in
18 villages. The area has a variety of cropping (vegetables, arable,
vineyards, orchards and grassland) and livestock. Livestock is an
important source of livelihood in the villages and the animals are kept
around the house and close to shallow wells that are a source of drinking
water. Project Components: The project will support activities under four
components to be implemented over five years as follows:(i) Promotion of
mitigation measures for reducing nutrient load in the water body. The
component would be implemented at two levels: (a) in close association
with the Rural Investment Services Project's components for business
development, rural support services and rural finance; and (b) improved
watershed resource management practices will be implemented in the pilot
watershed area comprising part of the Lapusna tributary of the Prut
river.(a) Activities under RISPIn conjunction with the RISP, the APCP
would provide assistance to agro-industry with implementing measures to
prevent environmental pollution. Entrepreneurs/enterprises who borrow
under RISP (individual farmers, farmers organizations, co-operatives and
agricultural processors) and wish to invest in environmentally sustainable
agricultural practices, would receive a grant from the GEF fund to offset
the incremental cost of nutrient reduction investments. The GEF facilities
will provide grant funds of up to US$2 million to support the Special
Credit Line of the RISP, specifically to cover 25 - 50% of the cost of
mitigation measures required to reduce nutrient discharge. The eligibility
criteria for the provision of a GEF grant will be primarily to support
those activities that will reduce the nutrient loads in water bodies.
With regard to the adoption of environment-friendly agricultural practices
on agricultural land at the national level (total agricultural area of 2.5
-4 -



million hectares and about 400,000 individual farms), the APCP would
provide training for rural advisory service providers in, inter alia, crop
nutrient management, conservation tillage, etc. This sub-component would
be implemented on three levels: demonstration, monitoring, and training.
(b) Promotion of Improved Watershed Management PracticesThis component
would prepare and implement improved watershed management practices for
the Lapusna basin, with the objective of reducing nutrient loads into the
Prut River through nutrient filtration and reduction of the erosion of
nutrient containing soil, as well as biodiversity conservation. The
project will provide for investments in:Manure Management Practices. This
sub-component will finance and provide incentives for the installation of
up to 16 improved manure storage facilities and equipment for manure
collection and application in the eight communas at both the household and
communa level. Villages and households wishing to participate in the
investment program would be selected against agreed criteria and
cost-sharing arrangements. Community training and awareness on good
practices for waste collection and manure management including composting,
testing, and field application would be provided. Promotion of
Environmentally-friendly Agricultural Practices. This sub-component will
promote the adoption of environmentally friendly agricultural practices
that would improve agricultural production while reducing nutrient
discharge into waterbodies. Technical assistance and financial support
will be provided for sustainable agricultural practices, including:
nutrient management, conservation tillage, integrated cropping management,
vegetated buffer areas, and promotion of organic farming. Wetland
Restoration and promotion of sustainable management practices. This
sub-component would strengthen the National Forest Services, and several
national laboratories to carry out the restoration of Lapusna Wetland by
implementing hydrologic enhancement practices, re-vegetation of wetland
zones, and performing associated monitoring tasks. This sub-component will
help to enhance the nutrient filtration capacity of the wetland at the
intersection of the Lapusna and Prut rivers and will help to strengthen
the ongoing trans-boundary efforts regarding wetland restoration in the
Danube Delta. Monitoring soil, water quality and environmental impacts.
This sub-component will strengthen the capacity of EPI and Public Health
Directorate in Lapusna Judet to carry out a comprehensive soil and water
quality monitoring program in order to determine the impact of the various
project activities. Internationally approved monitoring procedures will be
employed. A modeling component will extend lessons learned from Lapusna
basin to other watersheds in the Republic of Moldova. (ii) Strengthening
National Policy and Regulatory Capacity. The project will also support
strengthening of the national legislative, regulatory and institutional
capacity of the government of Moldova in agricultural pollution control.
It would include assistance for harmonizing local and national legislation
with EU's directives on environmental pollution control, including the
Nitrates Directive (91/676/EEC). Opportunities for promoting
environmentally sound and sustainable agriculture, particularly the
promotion of organic farming, would be developed including certification
procedures for internal and external marketing. Activities under this
component would increase capacity of the government for addressing
agricultural pollution control measures and honoring its international
commitments to reduce pollution to the Danube River and Black Sea. (iii)
Public Awareness and Replication Strategy. A local and nationwide public
information campaign will be undertaken to disseminate the benefits of
proposed project activities and achieve replicability of the same. The
- 5-



objective of the activity will be to familiarize the population with the
potential benefits of the project and help induce the behavioral changes
necessary to the success of the project. It will also aim to raise the
interest of potential future clients through national and regional
workshops, field trips, visits, training, publication in international
agriculture and environmental journals and other activities to promote
replication of project activities in other similar areas of Moldova as
well as Black Sea riparian countries. Leveraging RISP project funds would
improve the replicability of these practices among agricultural
enterprises nation-wide. The project will work closely with ongoing
similar efforts in Georgia, Bulgaria, Poland, Romania, Turkey and Ukraine,
and the exchange of experiences will help in contributing significant
reductions in the nutrient loads entering the Danube River and Black
Sea.(iv) Project Management Unit. A Project Management Unit will be
established under the umbrella of CAPMU. The GEF component would provide
support for hiring relevant staff to implement APCP in close association
with the RISP. APCP staff would include a Manager, Technical /Monitoring
Specialist, Accountant, Secretary/Translator and drivers, while
procurement and financial management support would be provided by CAPMU.
Promotion of mitigation measures for reducing nutrient loads in water
bodies
- grant for agro-industries supported by RISP
- training for RISP farm advisors
- pilot watershed interventions
National Level Strengthening of Policy and Regulatory Capacity
Public Awareness, Capacity Building & Replication Strategy
Project Management Unit
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT $5.00
IBRD
IDA
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY $5.00
Total Project Cost $10.00
6. Implementation
Agricultural Steering Committee (ASC). The overall supervisory functions
of the RISP would be provided by the ASC which is chaired by the Minister
of Agriculture and includes representatives of the Ministries of
Agriculture, Ecology, Finance, Economy, National Bank of Moldova, as well
representatives of the farmers' union and non-governmental organizations.
A Local Consultative Committee (LCC) has been established at the level of
the Lapusna Judet to oversee implementation of the pilot watershed
component. The LCC is chaired by the Prefect, Lapusna Judet, and includes
the mayors of the eight comunas making up the project area and members of
the local administration, but with little representation from NGOs or
farmers organizations. During project preparation, the composition of
this committee will be reviewed to ensure that all stakeholders concerned
with the various components are fully represented. Day-to-day project
implementation will be the responsibility of a Project Management Unit
(PMU) under the Consolidated Project Management Unit (CAPMU). CAPMU is
currently managing all Bank/IDA projects in agriculture and rural sectors
and will provide procurement and financial management back-up for the
APCP's PMU. The PMU would comprise Project Administrator,
- 6 -



Technical/Monitoring Specialist, Accountant, Secretary/Translator and
Driver.Project Monitoring and Evaluation: A well-designed monitoring and
evaluation system will be critical for ensuring the project's timely and
successful implementation, and enhancing its impact by a systematic
analysis of lessons learned and their effective dissemination. Project
monitoring and evaluation would be the responsibility of the PMU.
Monitoring will be based on the baseline survey undertaken during
preparation phase of the project. The Project Preparation Unit will
develop performance indicators based on Annex 1. The PMU would annually
monitor and evaluate project performance through conducting beneficiary
surveys. The results of M&E activities will be fed back into the
implementation process as improved practices.
7. Sustainability
To promote institutional sustainability, the PMU, which will be part of
CAPMU, will work closely with the RISP-supported agencies in the
implementation of componets at the national level. With regard to
interventions in the pilot watershed area, PMU will work with a Local
Consultative Committee. The MOF, MECTD and MAFI at the national level as
well as the local government agencies, comuna Mayors and farming
communities are in full support of the project. The project will provide
assistance for capacity building in policy and regulatory matters which
will enable MECTD and MAFI to establish a sound basis for overall
management of the project. To ensure social sustainability, the project
has emphasized the early involvement of key stakeholders in project
preparation and implementation, including policy makers, local public
officials and community leaders, farmers, their associations, NGOs. Such
involvement will create a sense of ownership and contribute to social
sustainability. In addition, the project would benefit the farmers by
promoting cost-saving yield-enhancing agricultural practices as well
organic farming which has the potential to open new markets for the local
farmers. Such project interventions will ensure financial
sustainability. Environmental Sustainability is the key element to
project design. The measures to ensure sustainability will be developed
during further preparation.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Key lessons learned from rural environmental and agricultural operations
in the regions and reflected in the Proposed Project include: the early
involvement of local administrations, communities and key decision makers
in project preparation, is essential in order to ensure ownership and
successful project implementation; successful investment in support
services requires a strong Government commitment and the financial and
operational sustainability of service providers with a gradually
increasing self-financing ratio, and the strong participation by farmers'
organizations from the planning phase;the development of successful
farmers' organizations requires a combination of support including
training of all stakeholders, especially farmers leaders and
members;adoption of mitigation measures to reduce nutrient load should
yield tangible benefits for key the expected users, specifically local
communities, in order to ensure adoption;effective monitoring and
evaluation mechanisms need to be developed and applied to measure project
impact and feed lessons leant into project design; decentralized
responsibility for financial and project management (e.g., as in the
Romania Danube Delta Biodiversity Project) builds local ownership and
- 7-



sustainability of project activities; andthere is little appreciation of
the benefits of improved environmental management at local level and the
dissemination of information is critical to the widespread adoption of new
technologies and practices.The project will incorporate these experiences
and build on them through a participatory and transparent approach to
project preparation and implementation.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The major environmental objective of the project is
to reduce the amount of nutrients leaching into the groundwater or flowing
directly into the river systems and then into the Black Sea. The project
will be designed and will be implemented in a participatory manner so as
to have the maximum environmental (and financial) impact on the area. The
project thus expected to be environmentally beneficial. There are two
areas that will require special attention during preparation. First, the
design of pollution control measures for agro-industrial plants benefiting
from the RISP credit line. During preparation, a sample of plants will be
examined to evaluate the likely range of problems to be encountered and
technical solutions with costs. Then criteria will be developed for
project interventions. During implementation, new plants will need to
carry out an environmental assessment and prepare a mitigation plan.
Second, with regard to the village-level manure storage facilities, the
environmental concerns may include leakage of the manure from the
village-level storage facilities (if construction is not made according to
specifications), inappropriate manure spreading in the fields and improper
cleaning of the individual manure storage tanks and large manure
platforms. During preparation potential risks will be evaluated and
monitoring requirements determined.An environmental assessment will be
carried out and mitigating measures proposed to address these
environmental issues.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Aleksandar Nacev
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-0522
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
- 8 -



September 20, 2002.
-9-



