ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                AWorld Frec of Povorty
AnfoShop
lbc W.w" luck
Report No AC67
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/08/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: MOLDOVA                                Project ID: P075995
Project: AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION CONTROL          Task Team Leader: Aleksandar Nacev
PROJECT
Authorized to Appraise Date: July 3, 2003        IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: February 19, 2004                 IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: ECSSD                            Sector: General agriculture; fishing and forestry
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  sector (80%); General public administration sector
Status: Lending                                 (20%)
Theme: Other environment and natural resources
management (P); Other rural development (P);
Environmental policies and institutions (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The overall project development objective is to increase significantly the use of environmentally friendly
agricultural practices by farmers and agro-industry and thereby reduce nutrient discharge from
agricultural sources in Moldova to the Danube River and Black Sea. In support of this objective, the
project will assist the Government of Moldova to: (i) promote the adoption of mitigating measures by
farmers and agro-industry for reducing the nutrient loads entering the water bodies; (ii) strengthen
national policy, regulatory enforcement and institutional capacity for agricultural nutrient pollution
control and organic farming; and (iii) promote a public awareness campaign and replication strategy.
The proposed project would provide a mix of investments and policy related activities to mainstream
environmental concerns in the agriculture sector. It would be implemented in close association with the
US$39.5 million IDA-funded Rural Investment and Services Project (RISP) and would harness the
synergies between the two projects, assisting farmer and agro-industry beneficiaries of RISP to put in
place the mitigating measures necessary to reduce nutrient discharge. The proposed project would also
assist the Government of Moldova in harmonizing its legislative framework with relevant European
Union (EU) directives and in honouring its international commitments to reduce nutrient loads to the
Danube River and Black Sea. The proposed Agricultural Pollution Control Project (APCP) is one in a
series of pilot projects addressing non-point source pollution in agriculture that have been successfully
launched in several Black Sea riparian countries, including Bulgaria, Georgia and Romania.
Project Global Environmental Objectives: The ultimate goal is to reduce the discharge of nutrients into



2
ISDS
the Danube River and Black Sea through integrated land and water management. Project activities are
directly linked to the "Strategic Action Plan for the Protection and Rehabilitation of the Black Sea"
(BSSAP), formulated with the assistance of the Global Environment Facility (GEF). BSSAP has
identified nutrient discharge from agricultural sources as the most'serious problem facing the Black Sea.
The Project's objective of reducing non-point source pollution is consistent with OP No. 8, Water-body
based Operational Program, which focuses mainly on threatened water bodies and the most important
trans-boundary threats to their ecosystems.
The project will assist Moldova to meet its international commitments to reduce nutrient loads to the
Danube River and the Black Sea from its territory. It is a signatory to the Convention on Co-operation
for the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Danube River (Sofia, 1994) and a member of the
International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River (Danube Commission). Moldova has
also signed a number of international conventions on environmental protection and biodiversity
conservation, including the Convention on Protection and Use of Trans-boundary Water Courses and
International Lakes (Helsinki, 1992), the Convention on Wetlands, of International Importance especially
as a habitat of aquatic birds (Ramsar, 1971), the Convention on Biological Diversity (Rio de Janeiro,
1992), the Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals (CMS) (Bonn, 1979)
and the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in Trans-boundary Context (Espoo, 1991), the
Convention on Conservation of European Wildlife and Natural Habitats (Bern, 1997) and the Convention
on International Trade in Endangered Species of wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), Washington, March 3,
1973. In terms of regional agreements, Moldova is party to (i) Statement on Lower Danube Green
Corridor signed by Bulgaria, Romania, Ukraine and Moldova, on 5 June, 2000, in Bucharest, Romania;
(ii) Protocol on the Establishing of the Trans-boundary BiosphereReserve of Danube Delta and
Scientific Reserve "Prutul de Jos", signed on 27 July, 2000 between Romania and Moldova.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Project Scope: The project would be closely associated with the IDA credit-financed Rural Investment
and Services Project (RISP) that has recently become effective for a US$39.5 million IDA credit. APCP
will comprise a GEF-funded environmental addition to the RISP with the objective of mainstreaming
environmental considerations into agricultural activities undertaken by RISP. It would promote
environmentally friendly agricultural practices that would reduce nutrient loads to the Danube river and
Black Sea. Those enterprises/entrepreneurs that will be recipients of RISP credits would receive grants
from APCP to cover 25 - 50% of the cost of mitigation measures to reduce nutrient discharge.
Additionally, APCP would: (i) provide support for the implementation of an improved watershed
management practices in the Lapusna tributary catchment area situated in the Lower Prut River basin
which would serve as a demonstration activity to reduce nutrient discharge to the river that could be
replicated in other similar areas; (ii) strengthen the national policy, regulatory and institutional capacity
for agricultural pollution control; and (iii) promote a broad public,awareness campaign to disseminate the
benefits of project activities for their possible replication.
Components
The project will support activities under four components to be implemented over five years as follows:
(i)    Promotion of mitigation measures for reducing nutrient load in the water body. The
component would be implemented at two levels: (a) in close association with the Rural Investment
Services Project's components for business development, rural support services and rural finance; and (b)
improved watershed resource management practices will be implemented in the pilot watershed area
comprising part of the Lapusna tributary of the Prut river.



3
ISDS
(a) Activities under RISP
In conjunction with the RISP, the APCP would provide assistance to agro-industry with
implementing measures to prevent environmental pollution.  Entrepreneurs/enterprises who
borrow under RISP (individual farmers, farmers organizations, co-operatives and agricultural
processors) and wish to invest in environmentally sustainable agricultural practices, would
receive a grant from the GEF fund to offset the incremental cost of nutrient reduction
investments. The GEF facilities will provide grant funds of up to US$2 million to support the
Special Credit Line of the RISP, specifically to cover 25 - 50% of the cost of mitigation
measures required to reduce nutrient discharge.
With regard to the adoption of environment-friendly agricultural practices on agricultural land at
the national level (total agricultural area of 2.5 million hectares and about 400,000 individual
farms), the APCP would provide training for rural advisory service providers in, inter alia, crop
nutrient management, conservation tillage, efficient management of household and livestock
wastes, promotion of organic farming, buffer strips along rivers etc. This sub-component would
be implemented on three levels: demonstration, monitoring, and training.
(b) Promotion of Improved Watershed Management Practices
This component would prepare and implement improved watershed management practices for the
Lapusna basin, with the objective of reducing nutrient loads into the Prut River through nutrient
filtration and reduction of the erosion of nutrient containing soil, as well as biodiversity
conservation. The project will provide for investments in:
*      Manure Management Practices. This sub-component will provide incentives for the
installation of up to 16 improved manure storage facilities and equipment for manure collection
and application in the eight communas at both the household and communa level. Villages and
households wishing to participate in the investment program would be selected against agreed
criteria and cost-sharing arrangements.
*      Promotion of Environmentally-friendly Agricultural Practices. This sub-component will
promote the adoption of environmentally friendly agricultural practices that would improve
agricultural production while reducing nutrient discharge into waterbodies. The proposed
activities would include: (i) nutrient management; (ii) conservation tillage; (iii) integrated
cropping management; (iv) vegetated buffer areas, and (v) promotion of organic farming.
*     Wetland Restoration and promotion of sustainable management pracThis
sub-component would strengthen the National Forest Services, and several national laboratories
to carry out the restoration of Lapusna Wetland by implementing hydrologic enhancement
practices, re-vegetation of wetland zones, and performing associated monitoring tasks.
*   Monitoring soil, water quality and environmental impacts. This sub-component will strengthen
the capacity of EPI and Public Health Directorate in Lapusna Judet to carry out a
comprehensive soil and water quality monitoring program in order to determine the impact of
the various project activities. Internationally approved monitoring procedures will be employed.
A modeling component will extend lessons learned from Lapusna basin to other watersheds in
the Republic of Moldova.
(ii)   Strengthening National Policy and Regulatory CapacityThe project will also support
strengthening of the national legislative, regulatory and institutional capacity of the government of
Moldova in agricultural pollution control. It would include assistance for harmonizing local and national
legislation with EU's directives on environmental pollution control, including the Nitrates Directive



4
ISDS
(91/676/EEC). Opportunities for promoting environmentally sound and sustainable agriculture,
particularly the promotion of organic farming, would be developed including certification procedures for
internal and external marketing Activities under this component would increase capacity of the
government for addressing agricultural pollution control measures and honoring its international
commitments to reduce pollution to the Danube River and Black Sea.
(iii)  Public Awareness and Replication Strategy local and nationwide public information
campaign will be undertaken to disseminate the benefits of proposed project activities and achieve
replicability of the same. The objective of the activity will be to familiarize the population with the
potential benefits of the project and help induce the behavioral changes necessary to the success of the
project. It will also aim to raise the interest of potential future clients through national and regional
workshops, field trips, visits, training, publication in international agriculture and environmental journals
and other activities to promote replication of project activities in other similar areas of Moldova as well
as Black Sea riparian countries. Leveraging RISP project funds would improve the replicability of these
practices among agricultural enterprises nation-wide. The project will work closely with ongoing similar
efforts in Georgia, Bulgaria, Poland, Romania, Turkey and Ukraine, and the exchange of experiences will
help in contributing significant reductions in the nutrient loads entering the Danube River and Black Sea
(iv)   Project Management Unit. A Project Management Unit will be established under the umbrella
of CAPMU. The GEF component would provide support for hiring relevant staff to implement APCP in
close association with the RISP. APCP staff would include a Manager, Technical /Monitoring Specialist,
Accountant, Secretary/Translator and drivers, while procurement and financial management support
would be provided by CAPMU.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Project actions will be implemented at two levels. First, country-wide in conjunction with RISP where
the 400,000 farms (on 2.3 million ha), farmed individually or in association, as well as agro-processors
would be potential beneficiaries of information on, and investments in environment-friendly practices.
Second, at a selected pilot watershed area in the Lapusna Judet (county) about 30km south west of
Chisinau. The pilot watershed area covers eight comunas and coinprises about 50,000 hectares with a
population of more than 43,000, or 14,000 households, in 18 villages. The area has a variety of cropping
(vegetables, arable, vineyards, orchards and grassland) and livestock. Livestock is an important source of
livelihood in the villages and the animals are kept around the house and close to shallow wells that are a
source of drinking water
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments Environmental assessment and Environmental Management Plans for the wetland
component as well as any other investments in watershed management already identified will be
prepared by appraisal. For the investments to be identified during implementation, institutional
arrangements for environmental screening and assessment will be put in place. The environmental
documentation to be submitted to ECSSD for review prior to Appraisal will include the EA/EMPs,
the screening and environmental assessment procedures and arrangements, and a review of the the
policy and legal framework and the national environmental assessment regulations.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability



5
ISDS
Enviromnenital Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                   * Yes 0 No    0 TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                            O Yes * No    O TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       O Yes * No    O TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   O Yes * No    O TBD
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               O Yes * No    O TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                O Yes * No    O TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       0 Yes 0 No    * TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                 0 Yes * No    O TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         0 Yes * No    0 TBD
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                 0 Yes * No    0 TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
No major adverse environmental impacts are expected. Of lesser scope, the environmental concerns
under this project may include leakage of manure from the village-level storage facilities (if construction
is not made according to specifications), inappropriate manure spreading in the fields and improper
cleaning of the individual manure storage tanks and large manure platforms. The wetland component may
entail limiting access to wetlands, currently used for grazing or other activities The provision of pollution
control and environmental mitigation measures in selected farms and enterprises will require an
assessment of current waste management practices and associated risks.
Il.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
NA
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
There is no anticipated negative environmental impact resulting from project activities. The project seeks
to promote environmentally sustainable agriculture that will reduce nutrient discharge into Moldavian
surface and groundwater and thereby help improve the waters of the Black Sea. However, all physical
investments will be screened in accordance with Moldavia's environmental regulations to address any
impacts that might arise.
lI.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The project will strengthen the capacity of Environmental Protection Inspectorate and Public Health
Directorate in Lapusna Judet to carry out a comprehensive soil and water quality monitoring program in
order to determine the impact of the various project activities such as manure, nutrient management and
implementation of environmentally friendly agricultural practices, and development of riparian buffers
around the Lapusna river on soil and water quality. Internationally approved monitoring procedures will
be employed that will include the use of paired watershed and upstream-downstream hydrologic and soil
and water quality monitoring designs. A modeling component will extend lessons learned from Lapusna



6
ISDS
basin to other watersheds in the Republic of Moldova. The project will also strenghten the national
legislative, regulatory and institutional capacity of the government of Moldova in agricultural pollution
control.
The Recipient will prepare an environmental assessment, including EMPs, for the investments
identified during project preparation, and put in place appropriate arrangements for
environmental screening and assessment of any investments identifed subsequently.
Il.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms:for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
During project preparation, key stakeholders, individual farmers, farmer organizations, NGOs and local
officials will be fully consulted in the development of detailed project components. An initial analysis of
priorities has been made with the baseline survey and needs assessment and the appreciation of the
relevant needs of the stakeholders will be deepened in the course of preparing individual components.
The EA report will be discussed in a public meeting and disclosed in the country and at the
Bank's Infoshop prior to Appraisal.
E. Safeguards Classification Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] Sl. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
S3. -No safeguard issues
SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan           Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                5/15/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            6/30/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                             7/2/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop



ISDS
Pest Management Plan                                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan                                    Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by        Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader:             Aleksandar Nacev
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                   Name                                         Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Jane E. Holt                               05/08/2003
Sector Manager/Director:       Marjory-AnneBromhead                         08/15/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
fEARCH   c  j   FFEDUACK      Lij      !'J PsHowcAsE      j



