                                               Documentof
                                           The WorldBank

                                       FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                                ReportNo: 27746-MD




                                  PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                   ON A

                      PROPOSEDGLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT

                               INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$4.95MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                       REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA

                                                FOR AN

                         AGRICULTURAL POLLUTIONCONTROL PROJECT

                                             February 3,2004




Europe and CentralAsia Region
Environmentallyand SociallySustainableDevelopmentUnit
Ukraine,BelarusandMoldova Country Unit


This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmay beusedby recipients only inthe performanceoftheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithoutWorld Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                      (Exchange Rate Effective October 15,2003)

                           Currency Unit = Moldovan Leu(MDL)
                                 1MDL = US$O.O7451
                                   US$1 = 13.42 Leu

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                 January --  December

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACSA    Agency for Consultancy and Training inAgriculture
BSSAP   Strategic Action Plan for Rehabilitation of the Black Sea
CAPMU   ConsolidatedAgricultural Projects Management Unit
CQ      Consultant Qualification
EC      European Community
EMEC    Environmental Mitigation Eligibility Criteria
EU      European Union
GEF     Global Environment Facility
GOE     Government Owned Enterprise
GOM     Government o f Moldova
IDA     InternationalDevelopment Agency
LCS     Least Cost Selection
LDPH    Lapusna Department for Public Health
LTEA    Lapusna Temtorial Ecological Agency
MAFI    Ministry o f Agriculture and FoodIndustry
MECTD   MinistryofEcology, ConstructionandTerritorial Development
MF      MinistryofFinance
MH      MinistryofHealth
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
NS      National Shopping
PCC     Project Co-ordination Committee
PMU     Project Management Unit
PPU     Project Preparation Unit
PSC     Project Steering Committee
QCBS    Quality-and Cost-Based Selection
RISP    Rural Investment and Services Project
SEI     State Ecological Inspectorate
SFS     State Forestry Service "Moldsilva"
TACIS   Technical Assistance for Community o f Independent States

                          Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                       Country Director:     Luca Barbone
                          Sector Manager     Marjory-Anne Bromhead
                       Task Team Leader      AleksandarNacev

                                                                      FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                   MOLDOVA
                           AGRICULTURAL POLLUTIONCONTROLPROJECT


                                                   CONTENTS




     A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page

        1. Project development objective                                                       2 .
        2. Key performance indicators                                                          2

     B. Strategic Context

        1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
        2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
        3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                   7

     C. Project Description Summary

        1. Project components                                                                  8
        2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      13
        3. Benefits and target population                                                     14
        4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      14

     D.Project Rationale                                               I


        1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           17
        2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies      19
        3. Lessons leamed and reflected in the project design                                 20
        4. Indications of borrower andrecipient commitment and ownership                      20
        5. Value added of Bank and Global support inthis project                              21

     E. Summary Project Analysis

        1. Economic                                                                           21
        2. Financial                                                                          21
        3. Technical                                                                          22
        4. Institutional                                                                      22
        5. Environmental                                                                      23
        6. Social                                                                             26
        7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 27

     F. Sustainability and Risks

        1. Sustainability                                                                     28

This document has a restricteddistribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties, I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

  2. Critical risks                                                                       28
  3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       29


G. Main Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              29
  2. Other                                                                                29

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           30

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                              30



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           31
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                                      36
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          47
Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis                                                        48
Annex 5:  Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    54
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                     55
          (B)Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                           64
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      69
Annex 8:  Documents in the Project File                                                   70
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                  71
Annex 10 Country at a Glance                                                              73
Annex 11 : Environmental Assessment and Environmental Management Plan                     75
Annex 12: : STAP Roster Technical Review                      I                           80




MAP(S)
IBRD32932

                                                           MOLDOVA
                                        AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
                                                Project Appraisal Document
                                                  Europe and Central Asia Region
                                                             ECSSD

 Date: January 5,2004                                             Team Leader: AleksandarNacev
 Sector hianager/Director: Marjory-AnneBromhead                   Sector(s): Generalagnculture, fishing andforestry sector
  Country Manager/Director: Luca Barbone                          (80%), Generalpublic administration sector (20%)
 Project ID: PO75995                                              Theme($:    Otherenvironment andnaturalresources
 Focal Area: I Intemational waters
                        -                                         management(P), Other rural development (P),
                                                                  Environmental policies and institutions (S)

1  Project Financing Data
'  [ ]Loan                [ ]Credit      [XI Grant    [ ] Guarantee         [ ] Other:
   For LoanslCreditslOthers:
   Amount (US$m): US$4.95
  Financing Plan (US$m):                Source                                 Local            Foreign             Total
  BORROWEWRECIPIENT                                                               1.04     1          0.00    1        1.04
  LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                                               0.72                0.00             0.72
  GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT ASSOCIATED ID.4 FUND
                                    -                                             2.38                1.55             3.93
  GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                                     3.08                1.87             4.95
  LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING                               0.10     I          0.00             0.10



1  Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF ECOLOGY, CONSTRUCTION AND TERRITORIAL DEVELOPMEN
1 Estimated Disbursements I Bank FY/US$m):
          FY             2003      2004        2005     2006         2007
          Annual         0.56        1.oo       1.20       1.10        1.09
  Cumulative              0.56       1.56       2.76       3.86        4.95



 Supplementing the following IDA project
  Date: May 22,2002                                               Team Leader: Pierre Olivier Colleye
  Sector Manager/Director: Majory-AnneBromhead                    Sector(s): General finance sector (74%), General industry
  Country Manager/Director: Luca Barbone                          andtrade sector (20%), Sub-national government
  Project ID: PO60434                                             administration (4%), Other social services (2%)
  Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)                Theme@): Rural markets (PI, Rural n0n-fa.mh-"Ie
                                                                  generation (P), Adrmnistrative andcivil service reform (P),
                                                                  Rural services and infrastructure Cp), Infrastructure
                                                                  servicesfor private sector development (P)
 T h e associated project i s the IDA-financedAPL Moldova Rural Investmentand Services Project approved inFY02.
 0- PA3 brm PI" v.rmImo

A. Project DevelopmentObjective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective o f the project is to increase significantly the use of environmentally fhendly
agricultural practices by farmers and agro-industry in Moldova in order to reduce nutrient discharge from
agricultural sources to the Danube River and Black Sea. In support o f this, the project will assist the
Government o f Moldova to: (i)    promote the adoption o f mitigating measures by farmers and agro-industry
for reducing nutrient loads (nitrogen and phosphorous) entering local water bodies; (ii)  strengthen national
policy, regulatory enforcement and institutional capacity for agricultural nutrient pollution control and
organic farming; and (iii)   promote a public awareness campaign and replication strategy so that project
activities could be replicated in similar areas withn Moldova and other Black Sea ripariancountries.

The proposed Agricultural Pollution Control Project (APCP) would provide a mix o f investments and
policy related activities to mainstream environmental concerns inMoldova's agricultural sector. It will be
implemented in close association with the USS2.5 million IDA-funded Rural Investment and Services
Project (RISP),    an Adaptable Program Lending (APL), which has been "designed to foster
post-privatization growth in the agricultural sector by improving the access o f new private farmers and
m a l businesses to what they need to succeed       -  legal ownership status, knowledge, know-how, and
finance". The first tranche o f the APL, inthe amount o f US$10.5 million was approved inmid-2002. The
APCP will assist farmer and agro-industry beneficiaries o f RISP to put in place the mitigating measures
necessary to reduce nutrient discharge from the agricultural sector. It would also assist the Government o f
Moldova in harmonizing its legislative framework with relevant European Union (EU) duectives and
honoring its international commitments to reduce nutrient loads to the Danube River and Black Sea.

Project Global Environmental Objectives: The global environmental objective o f the project i s to reduce
the discharge o f nutrients into surface and groundwater in watersheds draining into the Danube River and
Black Sea. An ancillary benefit i s increased carbon sequestration from tree planting and ecologically
sustainable landuse practices and decreasedmethane emissions from farming and livestock practices, both
o f which have significant implications for climate change mitigation. The Project will help introduce
improved manure and nutrient management practices as well as organic farming which, over the long run,
will help reduce the discharge o f nitrogen, phosphorus and other agricultural pollutants into the surface and
ground waters o f Moldova and the Black Sea. Project activities are directly linked to the "Strategic Action
Plan for the Protection and Rehabilitation o f the Black Sea" (BSSAP), formulated with the assistance o f
the GEF. The nutrient reduction component is being prepared under the umbrella o f the Black SeafDanube
Strategic Partnership-Nutrient Reduction Investment Fund under which riparian countries are eligible for
Global Environment Facility (GEF) Grants for projects that help control or mitigate nutrient discharge into
the Black Sea.

The proposed project is Moldova's contribution to a regional effort seekmg to reduce nutrient flow to the
Danube River and Black Sea. It i s one in a series o f pilot projects that have been successfully launched in
several Black Sea riparian countries to reduce non-point source pollution from agriculture and thereby
improve the waters of the Black Sea Agricultural Research, Extension and Training Project in Georgia,
                                        -
Agricultural Pollution Control Project in Romania and Wetlands Restoration and Pollution Reduction
Project inBulgaria.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key indicators to measure project impact will include the following:



                                                     - 2 -

    increased awareness o f environmental issues in agriculture and agro-industry
0   increased percentage o f farmers and agro-processorshndustriesimplementing environment-friendly
    practices;
0   improved soil and water quality inthe pilot watershed area;
0   adoption o f a Code o f Good Agncultural Practices;
0   implementation o f policy framework for non-point source pollution commensurate with EUcriteria
    improved quality of rural drinkingwater.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported bythe project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 18896-MD Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/07/99

The proposed project i s consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), as set forth in the
IBRD, IDA and IFC joint memorandum dated April 17, 1999. The CAS identifies three priorities for
assistance in order to improve economic growth and thereby improve prospects for reducing poverty and
social hardship inMoldova: macroeconomic stability and growth; private sector development; andpublic
sector reform.   Towards this, the CAS envisages "support for reforms in agriculture and enterprise to
stimulate a supply response and promote private sector-led growth" (CAS Progress Report, May 3, 2002).
The proposed GEF-funded APCP supports the agriculture and private sector development objective o f the
CAS by directly addressing the major development challenge of protecting and enhancing the environment
as privatization o f the agricultural sector proceeds in the country. The project will seek to promote
low-cost, high-yielding agricultural technologies, enforcement o f existing legislation covering agro-industry
and environment, development of the legal framework to address the EU Nitrates Directive as well as
assistance to prepare a Code o f Good Agricultural Practices. The mitigating measures to reduce nutrient
loads in water bodies will also include investment and policyhnstitutional support for organic farming,
thereby promoting the production o f ecologically sound agricultural products which will help boost the
country's volume o f agricultural exports, regain traditional export markets and tap lucrative new markets in
westem Europe.

Moreover, as articulated in Government's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) o f April
2002, one o f the three pillars o f the government's poverty reduction strategy i s "sustainable and inclusive
economic growth that will provide the population with productive employment". In Moldova, poverty is
especially prevalent inrural areas where agriculture is the dominant means o f livelihood. The political and
economic upheavals o f the transitional years impacted the agricultural sector resulting in decreased
productivity and loss o f traditional markets. Since agriculture i s the most important revenue source for the
rural poor population, the I-PRSP accords high priority to agricultural and rural development. The
proposed project will promote sustainable growth in agriculture by encouraging the adoption o f
environmentally friendly practices (in both agricultural production and ago-processing) which will help
increase rural incomes and living standards by promoting rural ekepreneurship, agncultural production,
economic diversification, and trade, especially inrural areas.

la. Global Operational strategyprogram objective addressed by the project:
The Project will implement priority actions identified in the Black SeaDanube Strategic Partnership -
NutrientReduction Investment Fund,Black Sea Strategic Action Plan, Danube River Strategic Action Plan
and Danube kver Basin Pollution Reduction Program supported by GEF. The Project's objective o f
reducing non-point source nutrient pollution from agnculture i s consistent with GEF Operational Program
Number 8, Waterbody Based Operational Program, which focuses "mainly on seriously threatened



                                                     - 3 -

water-bodies and the most important trans-boundary threats to their ecosystems." Under the Program,
priority is accorded to projects that are aimed at "changing sectoral policies and activities responsible for
the most serious root causes or needed to solve the top priority trans-boundary environmental concems."
The project's approach o f combining good agricultural practices with ecologically sustainable use o f
natural resources identified under the Danube k v e r Pollution Reduction Program, also makes it consistent
with several additional GEF Operational Programs, including program number 3 "Forest Ecosystems ",
program number 12 "Integrated Ecosystem Management" and program number 9 "Integrated Land and
Water Multiple Focal Areas Operational Program which supports "more comprehensive approaches for
                                                        "
restoring andprotecting the intemational waters environment". Rehabilitation and improved management o f
degraded watersheds, in combination with improved nutrient and manure management will also reduce
threats to biodiversity and promote increased carbon sequestration.

The project will provide an opportunity for the GEF to be a catalyst for actions to bring about the
successful integration o f improved land and water resource management practices. GEF support will help
reduce costs and barriers to farmers adopting improved and sustainable agricultural practices. It will help
develop mechanisms to move from demonstration level activities to operational projects that reduce
non-point nutrient pollution to the Danube River and Black Sea.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Environmental Issues: Duringthe last few decades, the Black Sea suffered severe environmental damage,
mainly due to coastal erosion, eutrophication, conversion o f wetlands, increased nutrient run-off from
agnculture, invasion o f exotic species, and inadequate resource management all o f which led to a decline o f
its biological diversity, loss o f habitat and long-term ecological changes. Black Sea EnvironmentalProgram
(BSEP) studies revealed that 58% o f the total dissolved nitrogen and 66% o f the total dissolved
phosphorous flowing into the Black Sea come from the Danube river basin. More than half o f all nutrient
loads into the Danube river originate from agnculture, about one-fourth from private households and about
10-13% from industry.

The entire territory o f Moldova (33,800 sq km) lies in the Black Sea Basin. About 34 YOo f the country
drains into the Prut River, a tributary o f the Danube, approximately 60% into the Nistru (Dniester) River
and the rest into a series o f small rivers that empty directly into the Black Sea. For over five decades,
unsustainable land use, excessive application o f inputs, such as fertilizers, and use o f heavy machinery
resulted in severe degradation o f the land and environment (notably soil, water and biodiversity).      Soil
erosion washes away an estimated 10 million tons o f fertile soil annually. During the Soviet era, large
cattle, pig and poultry farms were established near rivers that lacked efficient manure management
practices. The discharge o f untreated animal waste and manure is, in fact, one o f the major pollutants o f
Moldova's surface and ground water. The continued lack o f efficient manure management practices is
having significant implications for groundwater pollution and dnnlung water supply for rural settlements in
Moldova. Samples analyzed from about 70% o f shallow wells which are the main source o f dnnking water
supply for rural communities revealed nitrogen concentrations inexcess o f the maximumacceptable levels.
(UNECE. The Republic o f Moldova: Environment Performance Review. Geneva, 1998)

Nutrient discharge from agriculture is the most important contributor ofwater pollution inMoldova. Other
sources are inadequately managed municipal and industrial wastewater treatment plants. Nutrient run-off
to the rivers stems from: (i)environmentally unsustainable crop and soil management practices; (ii)
inappropriate management, storage and disposal o f animal manure, including dumping o f manure in
household backyards and river banks; (iii)      over-grazing; and (iv) mismanagement o f wetlands. From the
Prut River basin alone, approximately 12.5 thousand tons o f nitrogen and 1.5-2.0 thousand tons o f



                                                       - 4 -

phosphorous are being discharged each year. Annual run-off from manure is estimated at 10.5 thousand
tones for nitrogen and 2.5 thousand tones for phosphorus (Nutrient Balancer for Prut River Basin Project,
1994).

Agricultural pollution, together with over-fishing, mismanagement o f game sources, poaching, draining of
wetlands, excessive tree cutting have also ledto the degradation o fbiodiversity, which has reached a severe
level inthe Lower Prut River Basin. Hydropower stations built upstream have exacerbated the problem by
changing the site conditions in the area. Native flora and fauna species are severely threatened and, in
some cases, facing extinction. Privatization o f farm land assets has led to farmers keeping livestock near
their households   - in backyards or barns adjacent to houses      - which is resulting in nutrient pollution
problems for the local drinlungwater supply. Groundwater pollution with nitrates and microbial organisms
has major implications from the point o f view o f dnnkingwater supply for rural settlements inMoldova.

A number of studies have been conducted over the past decade on nutrient run-off and various other
aspects o f environmental degradation in the Republic o f Moldova and particularly in the Prut River Basin
which have concluded that a principal cause o f water degradation in Moldova i s excessive nutrient
discharge from agricultural sources. Some o f these studies include:

0   UNDP/GEFStrengthening Implementation o fthe Nutrient Reduction Measures and Transboundary
    Cooperation (1998, Danube Programme);
0   Nutrient Balance for the Prut River Basin Project (1995, Danube River basin Programme);
0   Study on the Quality o fthe Rural Drinking Water (1997, The World Bank, intwo pilot areas);
0   Evaluation o f Wetland andFloodplain Areas inthe Danube River Basin;
0   Development o f Agncultural Strategy (2000, Tack Programme);
0   First Agricultural Project o f the WB inMoldova;
0   Prut River Management Project (2000, Tacis CBC Programme, GIS mapping o f the quality o f surface
    and underground waters).

Agricultural Issues: Agriculture i s the mainstay of Moldova's economy contributing approximately 33%
to GDP and accounting for 65% o f the country's exports. With agricultural land covering 85% o f the
country's territory (33,800 sq. km), in good years the agri-business sector accounts for 75% o f the
country's total exports. The sector employs 40% o f the republic's estimated population o f 4.3 million (54%
of the country's population lives inrural areas where almost all o f the labor force is engaged in agriculture).
This specialization in agricultural production is due to favorable climatic conditions and higher than
average soil fertility. Fertile chernozem soil dominates over 72% o f the total agricultural land within the
country, which represents the highest percentage anywhere in the world.

Arable land represents 71% o f the agricultural land; perennial plantations comprising orchards and
vineyards account for 14%. Pastures take up the remaining 15% o f agricultural land. As a result o f land
reform efforts started in 1992, over 80% o f the agricultural land, and the overwhelming majority o f state
and collective farms were privatized.       Individual farmers now supply about 75% o f the country's
agricultural produce. In all there are approximately 400,000 individual farms, averaging 1.5 ha in size.
Main agricultural products include grains such as wheat and maize, vegetables, fruits, tobacco, sugarbeet
soya beans, etc.

Agriculture provides the raw materials for Moldovan food processing industries such as wine and
beverages, sugar, oil and fats, bakeries, food concentrates, dairy products, meats, canned fruits and
vegetables, etc. It's share o f over 50% intotal industrial output reveals the importance o f the food industry
to the Moldovan economy. Agricultural exports are the single most important source o f foreign exchange


                                                     - 5 -

income.

For nearly a decade since independence in 1991, Moldova's agricultural sector performed poorly, with a
decline inproduction and exports. Agricultural GDP in2000 was less than halfo f its 1990 level. While the
overall economy grew by 2% in 2000, agricultural GDP declined by 3%.              Most o f the decline was the
result o f lower productivity with yields down 20-60% due to withdrawal o f subsidies, fewer opportunities
to obtain credits and reduction in input use. The contraction in the agricultural sector resulted in farmers
opting for subsistence agriculture which emerged as the dominant food supply chain for immediate
households as well as extended families in urban areas. However, in the past few years, with the growing
acquisition o f private land by farmers and the increasing dominance o f private initiatives, the agricultural
sector is rebounding. Farm lands that were left fallow in the rural areas in the early years o f transition are
now increasingly under cultivation. A vibrant and efficient commercial agncultural production sub-sector
i s also gradually emerging. Outputs from subsistence as well as commercial private farming are generally
not captured by official statistics since these ouputs often move through informal channels. The resurgence
in the agricultural sector provides a window of opportunity for the proposed project to ensure that the
benefits accruing from the improved agricultural sector are sustainable. As the agricultural sector grows, it
i s critical to sensitize and educate the new farmers and ago-processors to the need for mainstreaming
environmental concerns into their agricultural practices so that the resultant agricultural sector is healthy
and sustainable and does not become a candidate for "clean up" efforts inthe future.

With the agricultural sector's importance to the economy, in terms o f GDP, employment, population, and
the large and increasing incidence o f poverty among the rural population (55% o f population lives below
national poverty line), Moldova will not be able to achieve sustainable overall economic growth without
generating sustainable growth inthe agricultural sector. Key policy, structural and institutional issues and
constraints identified in the "Agricultural Strategy for Moldova       - Accelerating Recovery and Growth"
includes the weak institutional capacity, a less than conducive legal, regulatory and operating environment
for the adoption o f environmentally sustainable agricultural practices, the still fragile private enterprises in
rural areas with a tendency to try to revert to old style collective approaches and the slow transformation o f
the agro-processing sector. The RISP addresses many o f these constraints and the proposed APCP will
create synergies and provide additional grant funds to complement the RISP's credit and advisory
components, with support for tackling environment problems related to ago-industry and crop and
livestock production.

Government Strategy: Agricultural pollution control and wetland ecosystem protection are considered
priorities by the Government o f Moldova as documented inthe following: (i)     National Program o f Strategic
Actions for the Environmental Protection for 1995-2020 (1995); (ii)      National Environmental Action Plan
for 1996-1998 (1996), which included a program o f activities to reduce or prevent pollution through better
environmental management and sustainable use o f natural resources; (iii)Governmental Strategy o f
Sustainable Development o f the Republic o f Moldova (2000) which emphasized sound agricultural
practices, restoration and rational use o f natural resources, elimination o f pollution sources, water quality
control, and waste management as national priorities, and (iv) Biodiversity Conservation Strategy and
Action Plan (2001).

In line with its strategy o f reducing nutrient loads to the Danube Rwer and Black Sea, the government of
Moldova has signedthe Convention on Co-operation for the Protection and Sustainable Use o f the Danube
River (Sofia, 1994) and i s a member o f the htemational Commission for the Protection o f the Danube
River (Danube Commission).         Moldova is also party to the: (i)Statement on Lower Danube Green
Corridor signed by Bulgaria, Romania, Ukraine and Moldova, on 5 June, 2000, in Bucharest, Romania;
and (ii)Protocol on the Establishing o f the Trans-boundary Biosphere Reserve of Danube Delta and


                                                      - 6 -

Scientific Reserve "Prutul de Jos," signed on 27 July, 2000 between Romania and Moldova. The
government has also signed a number o f international conventions on environmental protection and
biodiversity conservation, including the Convention on Protection and Use o f Trans-boundary Water
Courses and International Lakes (Helsinki, 1992), the Convention on Wetlands o f IntemationalImportance
especially as a habitat o f aquatic birds (Ramsar, 1971), the Convention on Biological Diversity (Rio de
Janeiro, 1992), the Convention on the Conservation o f Migratory Species o f Wild Animals (CMS) (Bonn,
1979) and the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in Trans-boundary Context (Espoo,
1991), the Convention on Conservation o f European Wildlife and Natural Habitats (Bern, 1997) and the
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species o f wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), Washington,
March 3, 1973.

A key element o f the government's overall strategy for agnculture i s the revitalization of the agricultural
sector through accelerated recovery and growth which inturn will reduce rural poverty. It aims to promote
post-privatization agricultural support services as well as on-farm environmental management to create an
enabling environment to fully realize the sector's potential. The main objective o f the Government's
program is to implement a model o f development based on private sector growth and the development o f
export industries in areas in which Moldova has a comparative advantage. In the near term, the
Government's main priorities are to: (a) overcome the general crisis in the agriculture and processing
industry; (b) improve national food security; (c) increase the production o f competitive high, value-added
agncultural and food exports; and (d) promote rural area development as a natural, social and cultural
framework for the revitalization o f the economy. In order to achieve this, the Government is committed,
with support under SAC I11and the RISP, to implementing reform oriented agncultural policies while
correcting problems o f the past decade. The Ministry of Ecology, Construction and Territorial
Development (MECTD) and the Ministry o f Agriculture and Food Industries (MAFI) support the APCP as
strongly complementing the Rural Investment Services Project (RISP). The combined program o f grants
(APCP) & credits (RISP credit lines) will allow the Government o f Moldova to mainstream environmental
and public health considerations into its agricultural sector which has significant economic and social
implications for the recovery o f the economy.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector Issues: The Project would extend and deepen the ongoing and proposed reforms o f the sector by
addressing the following key issues:

0   Integrating environmental concerns into agricultural practices to make them more sustainable,
    including use o f tested, low-cost technologies to protect soils, reduce surface run-off, prevent
    break-down o f soil organic matter levels and increase retention capacity so as to reduce over the long
    term the discharge o f the nutrient load into the Moldovan ground and surface waters, and, ultimately,
    the Danube River andthe Black Sea;

0   Developing appropriate policies, policy reforms and initiating legislation, in order to create the enabling
    environment for mainstreaming environmental concerns inagriculture;


0   Enforcement o f relevant legislation regarding agro-processing plants and village-level waste
    management;

0   Capacity building with private farmers to use modern resource management techniques and all-round
    more environment-fnendly agricultural practices;




                                                    - 7 -

0    Developing an understanding o f the EUDirectives and how the main principles can be incorporated in
     Moldovan agriculture.

Strategic Choices: A strategic choice to be made was whether to work with the Ministry o f Ecology,
Construction and Territorial Development or with the Ministry o f Agriculture and Food Industries to
prepare the project and which ministry should be entrusted with overall responsibility o f project
implementation.

It was agreed that since the proposed project addressed both environmental and agricultural issues, both
MECTD and MAFI should be involved with project preparation andimplementation. However, as in-house
experience and capacity o f MECTD to address environmental issues and implement environment projects
was greater than that o f MAFI, it was agreed that MECTD would serve as the line ministry with overall
responsibility for project preparation. An increasing role for MAFI is envisaged during project
implementation, including responsibility for policy and regulatory matters concerned with organic farming
and the code o f good agncultural practices. Clear agreements have been reached on the mandate o f each
ministryunderthe project .

This i s the first instance where the two ministries are working together on a common objective o f
mainstreaming environmental considerations into Moldova's agricultural sector. The value added o f such a
combined effort is significant as experiences o f both ministries can be brought to bear on the design and
implementation o f the project. Collaboration between the two ministries also has the added advantage o f
influencing support inthe Ministryo f Finance for environmentally sustainable development projects and to
include such projects in the national portfolio. The potential for conflicting priorities and approaches to
project preparation and implementation exist; however, the Agncultural Steering Committee made up o f
representatives from various ministries and national and local agencies involved in the proposed project
(MAFI; MECTD; Ministry o f Finance; National Bank of the Republic o f Moldova; and National
Association o f Food Production and Processing) and the Consolidated Agricultural Projects Management
Unit (CAPMU), incharge o f overall implementation o f Bank-supported agricultural projects (including the
proposed project), provide an effective forum for discussing issues and reaching agreements. The mandate
o f the Committee is to provide project oversight advice and assistance in resolving issues associated with
project implementation, and ensure commitment and active participation o f the concemed ministries.

C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components(see Annex 2 for adetailed description andAnnex 3 for adetailedcost breakdown):

Project Area: Project actions will be implemented at two levels:

         countrv-wide in conjunction with RISP where the 400,000 farms (on 2.3 million ha), whether
         farmed individually or inassociation, as well as ago-processors would be potential beneficiaries o f
         information on, and investments in, environment-friendly agricultural practices;

         at a selected pilot watershed area in the Hincesti and Leova raions (counties) about 30 km south
         west o f Chisinau.

Geographically, the watershed pilot area lies in central Moldova within the basin o f River Lapusnita, a
main tributary o f kver Prut which in turn i s a large tributary o f the Danube k v e r . These raions were
selected as they met the following criteria: (a) country representativeness in terms o f agro-industrial
practices as well as soil, climate and other geo-ecological conditions; (b) catchment represents national



                                                    - a -

agricultural pattems   - arable lands, grasslands, vineyards, orchards, processing industry (vine factories,
mill processing, etc.); (c) nutrient pollution of ground and surface water excessive and typical o f most
streams inMoldova studies revealed that nitrates pollute over 65% o f the shallow wells within residential
                      -
areas which exceeds national and international standards; (d) local authoritiesicommunities aware and
concerned about environmental problems and actively motivated to address these; (e) accessible road
network andcommunication necessary for demonstration purposes and dissemination o fproject activities.

The pilot watershed area covers eleven communes located in the Hincesti (9 communes) and Leova (2
communes) raions and comprises about 50,000 hectares with a population o f more than 43,000, or 14,000
households, in 18 villages. Over 66% o f the pilot area is used for agricultural purposes. The principal
activity o f local farmers is crop farming; main crops include grains (mainly wheat and maize), vegetables
(cabbages, cucumbers, beets and carrots) and fruits (grapes, tomatoes) grown on arable lands. Other
important crops include tobacco, sugarbeet and soya beans. Vineyards and orchards comprise a significant
share o f the land: 17% and 7% respectively. Over 15% o f the agricultural area comprises grasslands and
pastures used for livestock grazing. Most o f the livestock i s held by private individual owners. Livestock
inthe watershed area include: cattle (over 5,000 heads); pigs (over 9,000 heads); sheep and goats (15,000
heads); horses (1,000 heads); and poultry (166,000 heads).       The principal ago-industrial activity in the
region is associated with wine production and a number o f important wine malung factories are situated
within the pilot area. The ago-processing sector is also characterized by small enterprises such as flour
mills,oil pressingplants, fruit and vegetable processingplants, canning factories, etc.

Project Components: The project will support activities under four components to be implemented over
five years as follows:

(i)Promotionof mitigation measuresfor reducingnutrient loads inwater bodies. The component
would be implemented at two levels: (a) in close association with the Rural Investment Services Project's
components for business development, rural support services and rural finance; and (b) in a pilot watershed
area inthe Hincesti and Leova raions comprising part o f the Lapusna tributary o f the Prut river.

    (a) Activities under RISP

    The IDA-fimded RISP, an Adaptable Lending Program, inthe amount o fUS$25.0 million i s currently
    under implementation in Moldova. The first tranche inthe amount of US$10.5 million was approved
    in mid-2002; under the first tranche US$3.93 million has been allocated for activities to be
    implemented in conjunction with APCP grants. RISP i s providing post-privatization support to
    increase rural incomes and living standards by promoting rural entrepreneurship, agricultural
    production, economic diversification, and trade in the rural areas. These objectives are sought to be
    achieved through the provision o f technical and financial assistance.            The project comprises
    institutional beneficiaries, e.g. local NGOs o f advisory and extension agencies, service providers, etc.
    as well as a broad range o f private entrepreneurs in rural areas. RISP accords priority to high value
    commodities, such as fruits and vegetables with export potential. RISP's four components include: (i)
    Rural Advisory Services; (ii)Rural Business Development Services; (iii)Rural Finance; and (iv)
    Project Management. The Rural Finance Component is providing two credit lines, namely: (a) General
    Commercial Credit Line that i s open to a broad range o f rural entrepreneurs at commercial terms and
    conditions through commercial banks; and (b) a Special Credit Line with a matching grant targeted
    for newly formed farmer organizations and cooperatives, to support "new clients" without past credit
    history to access commercial credits and to be implementedthrough commercial banks. Inaddition, the
    component supports the provision o f technical assistance to participating financial institutions, State
    Supervisory Body, and Savings and Credit Associations.


                                                     - 9 -

RISP-APCP Collaboration. APCP will comprise a GEF-funded environmental addition to the RISP
with the objective o fmainstreaming environmental considerations into agricultural activities undertaken
by RISP. The RISP-APCP collaboration would broadly be on two levels: (i)              Provision o f grants to
implement mitigation measures for nutrient discharge stemming from RISP-supported activities; and
(ii)Training for rural advisory service providers and RISP credit officers.

(i)Provision of Grants.       Entrepreneurs/enterprises who borrow under RISP (individual farmers,
farmers organizations, co-operatives and agricultural processors) and wish to invest inenvironmentally
sustainable agricultural practices would receive a grant from the GEF fund to offset the incremental
cost o f nutrient reduction investments. The GEF will provide grant funds o f up to USS2 million to
support the Credit Line o f the RISP, specifically to cover a reasonable cost o f mitigation measures
required to reduce nutrient discharge. These grants are to encourage and serve as a financial incentive
for the installation o f agncultural pollution mitigation structures and procedures to protect Moldova's
environmental resources while encouraging agn-business development. The types o f businesses that
might benefit from this component would include animal production businesses that produce animal
wastes that are rich in nutrients, crop production o f any kind that have a large nutrient discharge
potential, processing units for juice production, vegetable oil extraction, and wine production (vinery)
that may produce biomass waste requiring appropriate disposal methods, etc. The eligibility criteria
for the provision o f a GEF grant will be primarily to support those activities that will reduce nutrient
loads to waterbodies. The APCP environmental mitigation grant application and approval process
would be conducted in two phases: phase Iwould determine the eligibility o f RISP Credit applicants
for the mitigation grant, determine the mitigation strategy to be implemented, and establish a cost basis
for the grant. Phase I1would involve signing o f the grant agreement, implementation o f the mitigation
procedures and milestone-based disbursement o f grant funds on a mutually-agreed schedule.

(ii)m.The             project will also train RISP-financed rural advisory service providers in several
nutrient reduction practices, including crop nutrient management, conservation tillage practices, crop
rotation and tree planting o f buffer strips etc. Credit officers o f the participating banks and rural
business developers will be trained in the mechanisms o f grant provision; the training will allow them
to inform credit recipients o f the availability o f the grants, the eligibility criteria and the application
procedures for grant funds.

The mechanism for APCP support and the eligibility criteria for the provision o f a GEF grant are
detailed inan Operational Manual and available with the Project Management Unit.

(b) Promotionof ImprovedWatershedManagementPractices

This component would prepare and implement improved watershed management practices for the
Lapusna basin in eleven communes o f the Hincesti and Leova raions, with the objective o f reducing
nutrient loads into the Prut River. The project will provide for investments in:

      Manure Management Practices. This sub-component will finance and provide incentives for the
      installation o f up to 8 improved manure storage facilities and equipment for manure collection
      and application in the eleven communas at both the household and communa level. Villages and
      households wishing to participate in the investment program would be selected against agreed
      criteria and cost-sharing arrangements. Community training and awareness on good practices for
      waste collection and manure management including composting, testing, and field application
      would be provided. (Details inWorking Paper 5).


                                                - 1 0 -

Promotion o f Environmentally-friendly Agricultural Practices. This sub-component will promote
the adoption o f environmentally friendly agricultural practices that would improve agncultural
production while reducing nutrient discharge into waterbodies.             Technical assistance and
incremental operating costs will be provided for sustainable agricultural practices, including: (i)
nutrient management - the application o f animal waste materials on agricultural land areas at
rates determined by the nutrient needs o f crops and nutrient content o f the waste; (ii)
conservation tillage- crop production in which the crop residues from the previous crop remain
on the soil surface to provide erosion protection; (iii) integrated cropping management - the use
o f crop rotations and strip cropping to prevent erosion and provide adequate supplies o f animal
feed and forages in integrated farming systems; (iv) vegetated buffer areas - permanent
vegetated strips would be established at field and stream riparian boundaries and in water
courses that will reduce and help prevent soil loss and its associated nutrient loss loads, and (v)
promotion of organicfarming - as soon as organic farming certification procedures are defined
at national level, small organic f m i n g areas would be established invillages throughout the two
raions to demonstrate and help educate farmers on appropriate procedures for the production o f
organic fruits and vegetables. (Details inWorking Paper 4)

Shrub and Tree Planting. This sub-component will support the development o f a shrub & tree
plantingprogram that includes: (i)   planting o f forest belts for the protection o f water bodies; (ii)
anti-soil erosion forest belts; (iii)  ecological reconstruction o f forests; and (iv) agro-forestry
practices.    The APCP assistance would primarily consist o f providing planting material,
appropriate equipment and technical assistance. The program will be implemented by the State
Forestry Service "Moldsilva" with significant contributions from local communities (Details in
Working Paper 6).

Wetland Restoration and promotion o f sustainable management practices. This sub-component
will enhance the nutrient filtration capacity o f the wetland at the intersection o f the Lapusna and
Prut rivers and help to restore the degraded wetland to its former natural state. Activities under
the sub-component include: (i)forestry activities such as planting o f forest vegetation with
species that have high capacity for nitrate uptake and retention both in floodplain areas and
terraces exposed to erosion;       (ii)hydrologic enhancement practices, such as embankment
reinforcements for the stabilization o f water level, small bridges to provide access to different
parts o f the wetland, etc. (iii)
                                sanitation activities; and (iv) public awareness activities to educate
local inhabitants o f the importance and fragility o f wetland ecosystems. (Details in Working
Paper 7)

Monitoring soil, water aualitv and environmental impacts. An extensive soil and water quality
testing program will be established for the proposed pilot area to monitor the changing quality o f
surface and groundwater bodies (in response to the implementation of the new and better
agncultural and livestock practices) that eventually drain into the Danube River. This
sub-component will strengthen the capacity o f MECTD (water quality laboratory and
hydrological department of the Hydrometereology State Service) as well as the central and
regional laboratories o f the State Environmental Inspectorate and Institute for Pedology and Soil
Science to carry out comprehensive soil and water quality testing and monitor environmental
requirements. Internationally approved monitoring procedures will be employed that will include
the use o f paired-watershed and upstream-downstream hydrologic and soil and water quality
monitoring designs. A modeling sub-component will extend lessons learned from Lapusna basin
to other watersheds inthe country. (Details inWorking Paper 8)


                                           - 11-

(ii)Strengthening National Policy, Regulatory Enforcement and National Capacity. The project will
also support strengthening o f the national legislative, regulatory and institutional capacity o f the
government o f Moldova in agricultural pollution control. It will assist MECTD and MAFI in developing
the Code o f Good Agncultural Practices and strengthening the capacity o f the Government o f the Republic
o f Moldova in its efforts to promote scientifically grounded organic farming and land use management.
Certification procedures for intemal and extemal marketing will also be developed under this component.
Activities under this component would increase capacity o f the government for addressing agricultural
pollution control measures and honoring its intemational commitments to reduce pollution to the Danube
River and Black Sea.

(iii)Public Awareness and Replication Strategy. A local andnationwide public informationcampaign
will be undertaken to disseminate the benefits o f proposedproject activities and achieve replicability o f the
same. A t the local level, the main audience will be the direct stakeholders o f the project (local and county
officials, farmers, community groups and NGOs). The efforts at the national level would concentrate on
institutions and groups (Govemment agencies, national environmental or professional associations,
academia, NGOs, etc.) and the population at large. The aim would be to familiarize the populationwith the
project and its benefits and thereby raise the interest o f potential future clients. Leveraging RISP project
finds would improve the replicability o f these practices among agricultural enterprises and small farmers
nation-wide. The project will draw on the Agency for Consultancy and Training in Agriculture, entrusted
with specific extension activities under RISP, to undertake a nation-wide public awareness campaign to
disseminate information on proven low-cost, environmentally-sound technologies provided under APCP.
The project will provide for the organization o f national and regional workshops, field trips, visits, training,
publication in intemational agriculture and environmental journals and other activities to promote
replication o f project activities in other similar areas o f Moldova as well as Black Sea riparian countries.
Watershed modeling based on developing management strategies from experience in the pilot watershed
area, would be a component o f the replication strategy. The project will work closely with ongoing similar
efforts in Georgia, Bulgaria, Poland, Romania, Turkey and Ukraine, and the exchange o f experiences will
help incontributing significant reductions inthe nutrient loads entering the Danube River and Black Sea.

(iv) Project management and Evaluation. The project would support a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
that will report directly to MECTD. The existing Project Preparation Unit, already established in the
MECTD offices, would evolve into the PIU. GEF finds would provide support for hiringrelevant staff to
implement APCP activities who will work closely with the RISP implementing staff. The P I U staff for
APCP will include: a Project Manager, Technical Specialist (who would also handle project
monitoring/evaluation),     Financial    Management      Specialist,  Procurement     Specialist, Accountant,
Secretary/Translator and Drivers. The Consolidated Agricultural Projects Management Unit (CAPMU)
will provide fiduciary support and the payment for services provided by CAPMU, including procurement
and financial  management, will be shared by APCP. The P I U will coordinate project implementation by
the different implementing agencies, and will be responsible for procurement, financial management and
monitoring/evaluation o f the project.




                                                      - 12-

                                                     Indicative          Bank        % of      GEF       Yo of
            Component                                  costs    % of   financing    Bank     financing   GEF
                                                      (US8M)    Total   (US$M)    financing   (US$M)   financing
Promotion of mitigationmeasures for reducing             9.66     89.9    3.93        100.0      4.19     84.5
nutrient loads inwater bodies
--- pilot
    grant for agro-industriessupportedby RISP
    training for RISP farm advisors
          watershedinterventions
NationalLevel Strengtheningof Policy and                 0.09      0.8    0.00          0.0      0.07       1.4
Regulatory Capacity
Public Awareness, Capacity Building &                    0.37      3.4    0.00          0.0      0.28      5.6
Replication Strategy
Project Management Unit                                  0.62      5.8    0.00          0.0      0.42      8.5
                                 Total Project Costs    10.74    100.0    3.93        100.0      4.95    100.0
                           Total Financing Required     10.74    100.0    3.93        100.0      4.95    100.0

igures may slightly differ due to rounding




                              Source                            Total (US$ million)
         Government of Moldova                                         1.04
       ILocal Communities                                I             0.72                  I
      -Rural Investment Services Project (RISP)                        3.93
        Global Environment Facility                                    4.95
        Local governments of Moldova                                   0.10
       I Total                                           I             10.74                 I

 2. Keypolicy and institutionalreforms supportedby the project:
The APCP component will complement actions o f the RISP in assisting with the completion o f sector
reforms. In particular, the policy reforms sought under the APCP seek to create the enabling policy
 environment for commitment to environment-fnendly agricultural practices on the part o f both the local as
well as national governments. Policies effected by APCP would relate to the strengthening o f national
capacity for enforcement o f existing environmental laws. Also, Moldova has ratified the Partnership and
Cooperation Agreement (PCA) with the E C and its member states in 1998. According to Article 50 o f the
PCA, Moldova shall endeavor to ensure that its legislation will be made compatible with that o f the
Community, in fields including environment. Towards this, a Code o f Good Agricultural Practices will
also be prepared. An issue o f particular interest to MAFI is to harness the country's potential for organic
farming. The project will assist in the development o f standards and certification procedures for organic
products.

Institutional reforms under the project emphasize the ongoing decentralization process in the country by
ensuring full local participation in the preparation and execution o f project activities. The project would
seek the commitment and direct engagement o f local communities in the operation and maintenance of



                                                      - 13-

project supported investments. Inorder to buildlocal ownership and capacity, and to be able to effectively
monitor and evaluate the impact o f project activities, implementation o f project activities will be entrusted
to relevant local institutions. Training will be provided to the staff o f these entities as necessary to ensure
effective planningandimplementation o f resource management activities under the project.

3. Benefitsandtarget population:
The project will yield benefits at the local, national and intemational level:

Locally benefits will accrue as follows: (i)  at the f m level, additional income from effective use o f organic
waste (manure as fertilizer), crop rotations, and improved livestock grazing practices; (ii)        in the crop
sector, outcomes will include improved production efficiency through cost-effective inputs and better farm
management; (iii) the health sector, there will be improvements in health and sanitation as there will be
                    in
an improvement in the dnnking water and general hygiene o f the villages; and (iv) through terrestrial and
aquatic habitat enhancement, increased populations o f flora and fauna o f local economic and social
importance.

Reducing nutrient run-off into surface and groundwater, protecting long-term fertility o f soils,by
maintaining organic matter levels, fostering soil biological activity through use o f legumes and vegetables
in crop rotation, as well as effective recycling of organic materials, including crop residues and livestock
wastes, is expected to raise income and reduce the need for purchased inputs.

Nationally, the country will benefit through: (i)   improved quality o f surface and underground water in the
watershed pilot area and consequently in the River Prut; (ii)      improved agricultural productivity through
better agricultural practices; (iii)progress towards compliance with EU Directives; (iv) increased capacity
building o f local institutions, such as State Ecological Inspectorate and Public Health Ministry; and (v)
sustainable rural growth and development through environmentally sound agncultural practices. The
proposed project i s the first instance where the Government o f the Republic o f Moldova is mainstreaming
environmental considerations in agncultural practices. The synergy o f such an approach will bring about
greater benefits globally, regionally and locally vis-a-vis independent, discrete agricultural and
environmental projects.

Intemationally, benefits will accrue through: (i)     a continual reduction in the discharge o f nutrients and
sediments into Danube River and Black Sea and the accompanying improvements in the local and Black
Sea water quality; (ii)broad-based stakeholder participation that will increase public awareness and
demand-driven approaches for protecting the Black Sea;(iii) improving habitat for migratory waterfowl and
a variety o f endangered species; and (iv) sequestering carbon inthe grasslands, cropland and forests.

Target Population: (i)All ago-industrial enterprises benefiting from RISP credit lines and the farm
households expected to obtain technical advice through RISP's rural services advisory component; and (ii)
the 45,000 rural inhabitants in the eleven communes o f the Hincesti and Leova raions where the pilot
watershed area i s located. The proposed project i s a demonstration activity that may be replicated in other
similar areas o f Moldova and countries o f the Black Sea region. Thus, the project will have a larger
geographic impact and benefit populations beyondMoldova.

4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:




                                                       - 14-

The MECTD and MAFIwould be the main agencies responsible for project implementation; MECTD has
been designated by the Ministry o f Finance as the line ministry responsible for preparation and
management o f the proposed project.

Project Steering Committee (PSC): Co-ordination at the national level would be ensured by a Steering
Committee established by the Government (Decision nr. 529, from 28.06.2001) that is in charge o f
supervising CAPMU activities.       The Steering Committee comprises representatives from Ministry o f
Agnculture and Food Industry, Ministry o f Ecology, Construction and Territorial Development, Ministry
o f Finance, National Bank o f the Republic o f Moldova, and National Association o f Food Production and
Processing.   The Minister o f Agriculture and Food Industry, who is also the country's Deputy Prime
Minister is the chair o f the Steering Committee. The Committee will be responsible for providing project
oversight advice and assistance in resolving issues associated with project implementation, and will ensure
commitment o f the concerned Ministries.

Project Co-ordination Committee (PCC) at Raion-level: Co-ordination in the raions will be ensured by a
Project Co-ordination Committee. The PCC will provide technical oversight and ensure cooperation and
coordination o f the implementing institutions at the local level, including local offices o f Ministry o f
Agriculture, Ministry o f Health, State Forestry Service "Moldsilva", State Concem "Apele Moldovei"
(Moldovan Waters), County Agencies, and other central and local institutions (See Annex 2, Table 1 for
detailed implementation responsibilities by component).

The PCC will be chaired by the Prefect o f Hincesti raion with the Head o f Executive Council as vice-chair.
Membership of the PCC will include Department for Agriculture and Food Industry, Department for
Financial and Cadastral Relationships, Country Center for Preventive Medicine, Department for Education
and Sports, Department for Environmental Protection and Natural Resource Utilization, Lapusna
Territorial Ecological Agency, Regional Center for Consultancy and Scholarship in Agriculture and
Mayors o f the eleven communas.       The Prefect would ensure coordination o f local government agencies,
while the Head o f the Executive Council would ensure coordination o f all communes participating in the
project. The Project Manager will be the ex-officio Secretary o f the PCC. The Project Co-ordination
Committee was established inApril 2002.

Project Management:       The existing Project Preparation Unit, already established in the MECTD offices,
would evolve into the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). It will comprise: a Project Manager, Technical
Specialist (who would also handle project monitoring/ evaluation), Financial Management Specialist,
Procurement Specialist, Accountant, Secretary/ Translator and Drivers. The Project Implementation Unit
will be entrusted with the responsibilities for assuring that GOM and World Bank procedures are followed
in project implementation, provide financial management and procurement services, report on project
activities, overall project monitoring against agreed performance indicators, and evaluation o f the project's
impact on beneficiaries. Responsibility for the technical monitoring o f the impact on nutrient load reduction
would be the responsibility o f the Environmental Protection Inspectorate and the Public Health Directorate.
The Consolidated Agricultural Project Management Unit (CAPMU) will provide fiduciary support to
APCP and payment for such services will be provided by APCP. The role o f each existingagency that will
implementone or more project activities is set out inAnnex 2.

A t the national level, the Project Manager will report to the Minister (or his designated representative),
MECTD; at the local level, the Project Manager will report to the Prefect o f Hincesti who is the Head o f
PCC.

Project financial management arrangements: As it is mentioned in the project management part the


                                                    - 15-

fiduciary support will be providedby CAPMU team.

Implementing entity

CAPMU was established in 1999 through consolidation o f two predecessor implementation units, the
Directorate of the First Agriculture Project that was set up in 1996 and the Rural Finance Project
Implementation Unit that was established in 1997. CAPMU was created specifically to implement all
Bank-financed agncultural projects and has already established a successful track record in its
implementation of these projects. It will also implement the proposedAgricultural Pollution Control Project
(APCP) and Youth Inclusion and Learning and Innovation Project. CAPMU is a state legal entity that
reports to the Ministry o f Finance, Ministryof Economy and Ministryo f Agriculture.

Funds Flow

There are two parts of the funds flow scheme that should be considered inthe project. The first part relates
to the general scheme o f the project financing and assumes that project funds will flow from: (i)  the Bank,
either via a single Special Account which will be replenished on the basis o f SOEs or by direct payment on
the basis o f direct payment withdrawal applications; or (ii)the Government, via the Treasury at the
Ministryo fFinance (MOF) on the basis o fpayment requests approvedby the ForeignDebt Department of
the MOF.

Grant funds will be disbursedonly to bank account inthe name o f the Grantee that has been opened and is
utilized by the Grantee solely for the purpose of the grant on terms and conditions satisfactory to the PMU,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Payments out o f the bank account
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures for the Work determined inthis Grant Agreements. The
funds held in the bank account may not be invested in any financial instruments such as stocks, bonds,
options or any other dividend-, interest- or capital-generating instruments nor may the funds be loaned or
usedas security for any activities unrelated to Work.
The grant will be disbursedintranches. The first tranche payment will be made immediately upon signing
o f this Agreement by the contractors. Disbursements will be made on the basis o f tranche disbursement
requests (invoices) that the Grantee will send to the P M U when the milestone for the particular tranche has
been met. The Grantee shall also provide the P M U any documents that they may require to ascertain
whether the expenditure incurred under the previous tranche is reasonable. The P M U may withhold
scheduled payments inthe event that the Grantee's expenditure reports show large cash balance inthe grant
account, or may delay the next scheduled grant payment(s).

Expenditure o f grant funds must adhere to the specific line items in the approved budget. Transfers among
line items o f the approved budget are restricted to a cumulative total o f 20% o f the item. If a transfer in
excess o f this restricted level becomes necessary, or the Grantee wishes to establish a new line item, the
Grantee shall promptly request authorization from the P M U by letter.

Only incremental operating costs incurred for execution o f the sub-project will be financed by the grant
funds and existing operating costs o f the Grantee cannot be financed by grant funds. All interest generated
by grant activities shall be applied to the project funded by the grant or other similar activities conducted
by the Grantee.

Grant participants' accounts will be credited on the amount o f Matching Grant advance in amount o f about
30% and will be disbursed at grant approval under the RISP project; the second payment, in amount o f
30% of the grant, will be provided following inspection and approval o f the completion o f the tasks set as
conditions to the advance payment; the third and final payment will be provided following inspection and


                                                     - 16-

approval o f second stage actions completion.

Project Monitoring and Evaluation: A well-designed monitoring and evaluation system will be critical for
ensuring the project's timely and successful implementation, and enhancing its impact by a systematic
analysis o f lessons leamed and their effective dissemination. Project monitoring and evaluation would be
the responsibility o f the PIU.       Monitoring will be based on the baseline survey undertaken during
preparation o f the project. The Project Preparation Unit has developed performance indicators based on
Annex 1. The PIU would annually monitor and evaluate project performance through conducting
beneficiary surveys. The results o f M&E activities will be fed back into the implementation process as
improvedpractices.

The PIU will design a simple Management Information System for M&E, reporting formats for each
component, including targeted annual performance objectives and monitoring indicators using Annex 1
details as the basis. These indicators include evaluating the project's impact by monitoring soil and water
quality. Quarterly reports will cover progress in physical implementation, the use o f project funds and
project impact. The Quarterly reports will be consolidated by the PIU into half-yearly progress reports to
be submitted through MWEP to the Bank withintwo months o f the end o f each six-month reporting period.
These half-yearly progress reports will also include an implementation plan and work program for the next
six months following the reporting period. The format o freports will be agreed with the Bank.

A mid-term review will be carried out to assess overall progress. Lessons leamed, with recommendations
for any improvements, would be usedinrestructuring the project, ifnecessary.



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Alternatives considered were to: (i)    develop the APCP as a component o f the RISP rather than as separate
project; and (ii) select more than one pilot watershed area for development.
                  to

With regard to (i),   the preparation o f the APCP didnot start untilmost of the detailed preparation for the
RISP had been completed.           Nevertheless, preparation o f the APCP started in January 2002 with the
expectation that it would become a component o f RISP, should final processing o f the latter be delayed
(which at the time was a strong possibility). However, the expected delays in the processing o f RISP did
not occur and negotiations were completed inMay 2002. While APCP is now being prepared as a separate
project, in view o f the considerable synergies between the two projects it will be implemented in close
association with RISP. This close association will be a key factor in promoting strong collaboration
between MECTD and MAFI and mainstreaming environmental considerations in agriculture. With RISP
becoming effective inAugust 2002, the first tranche o f the APL has been approved and fully committed; in
light o f this, the timing o f the APCP i s extremely appropriate as it could now step in and provide grants to
meet reasonable costs o f mitigation measures for environmental concerns o f ago-processors using the
RISP credit line as well as provide funds for training RISP-financed rural advisory service providers in
several nutrient reduction practices, including crop nutnent management, conservation tillage practices,
crop rotation and tree planting o f buffer strips etc. RISP activities already undertaken and completed by
the time o f the GEF grant effectiveness would also qualify for the grant fimds.

In respect of option (ii),was concluded that associating APCP activities with RISP would make for a
                             it
good balance of actions at the national level, while a package o f investments in environment-fnendly



                                                      - 1 7 -

practices implemented in one select, well-defmed pilot watershed would enable effective quantification and
demonstration o f the efficacy of project interventions on nutrient reduction from agncultural sources to
surface and groundwater.    Also, given the lack o f experience in promoting and quantifying the impact o f
environmentally friendly agricultural practices, it was decided to target a select area of Moldova where the
impact o f the practices on reducing nutrient discharge could be demonstrated.          As local and national
capacity increased, project activities could then be replicated inother watersheds o f the country.




                                                     - 18-

2. Major relatedprojectsfinancedby the Bankand/or other developmentagencies(completed,
ongoingand planned).
                                                                                     Latest Supervision
             Sector Issue                                Project                       (PSR) Ratings
                                                                                (Bank-finance Irojectsonly)
                                                                                Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                                    Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)

Apculture                                  Agriculture I(completed)                   S               S
Agriculture                                Rural Finance (completed)                  S               S
Agriculture                                Agriculture Sectoral                       S               S
                                           Adjustment Loan, Credit Iand
                                           I1(Completed)
Agriculture                                SAC I11                                   U               U
Social                                     Social Investment Fund                     S               S
Public Sector Management                   Private Sector Development I               S               S
Multisector                                Private Sector Development I1              S               S
Urban Development                          FirstCadastre                              S               S
Biodiversity (GEF)                         Biodiversity Conservation inthe
                                           Lower
                                           Dniester Delta Ecosystem
Environment Management Capacity            IDFGrant (IDA)
Dther development agencies
Dniester Delta Ecosystem                   Land Privatization;
                                           Agricultural Service Centers;
                                           Farm Shops; Post privatization
                                           support
EUTACIS                                    Export Promotion; Agricultural
                                           Marketing; Development of
                                           Agricultural Machinery Supply
                                           and Services, Advice Centers;
                                           Reformo f Agricultural
                                           Education, Training and
                                           Research
Japanese                                   Agricultural Equipment and
                                           Leasing
BritishKnow-How Fund                       TA for Farmers Associations;
                                           Rural LivelihoodProject;
                                           Support for SCAsISSB
IFC                                        INCON Project
EBRD                                       Vininvest
GTZ                                        ProComerz Technical
                                           Assistance Project
Soros Foundation                           M M A Project; Farm Shops
                                           Foundation Project
P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), k (Highly Unsatis



                                                     -19-

3. Lessonslearnedandreflectedin the project design:
Key lessons learned from rural environmental and agricultural operations inthe regions and reflected inthe
Proposed Project include:

0   the early involvement o f local administrations, communities and key decision makers in project
    preparation, is essential inorder to ensure ownership and successful project implementation;

0    successful investment in support services requires a strong Government commitment and the financial
    and operational sustainability o f service providers with a gradually increasing self-financing ratio, and
    the strong participation by farmers' organizations from the planning phase;

0   adoption o f mitigation measures to reduce nutrient load should yield tangible benefits for key the
    expected users, specifically local communities, inorder to ensure adoption;

    effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms need to be developed and applied to measure project
    impact and feed lessons leant into project design;

    decentralized responsibility for financial and project management ( e g , as in the Romania Danube
    Delta Biodiversity Project) buildslocal ownership and sustainability o fproject activities; and

0   dissemination o f information i s critical to the widespread adoption o f new technologies and practices.

The project will incorporate these experiences and build on them through a participatory and transparent
approach to project preparation and implementation.

4. Indications of borrower and recipientcommitment and ownership:
The successful launch o f the RISP in 2002 demonstrates the Government o f Moldova's strong commitment
to addressing the development issues in the agriculture sector. The Government created the Consolidated
Agncultural Project Management Unit to coordinate the experiences gained from a decade o f loan support
by various donors, and to maximize the effectiveness of future support. To actively supervise project
preparation activities, the Government also established the Steering Committee, with representations from
the key Ministries of Agriculture, Finance, and Economy, from non-governmental agencies, and from
private organizations that support farmers.        Further, the Government obtained and effectively used a
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to implement pilot operations o f the rural business development,
advisory services, and pilot credit line components, including the matching grant support. The Ministryo f
Finance has confirmed its commitment to make available the necessary government contribution to project
costs upon project effectiveness.

With regard to the APCP component, the Government considers agricultural pollution control and wetland
ecosystem protection as priorities and has committed itself internationally to reducing nutrient loads to the
Danube River and the Black Sea from its territory. It has signed several international agreements to that
effect and has developed the National Environment Action Plan to provide backmg for the necessary
actions. The Ministries o f Ecology and Agriculture have confirmed their strong support for the project and
are actively supporting the Project Preparation Unit established under CAPMU. Furthermore, the local
officials in the Hincesti and Leova raions including the Prefects, as well as all eleven mayors o f the project
communes, are fully committed to the project and a Local Consultative Committee has been established to
coordinate the various local agencies.




                                                      - 20 -

The Ministry o f Agriculture (MAFI) has confirmed its wish to mainstream environmental concems in the
sector and use the linkages between the RISP and APCP to promote a healthier agro-industry and products
that can be sold on the intemational market.

5. Value added of Bankand Global support inthis project:
Bank and GEF support for the Project will assist in synergizing efforts o f the Danube River and Black Sea
riparian countries to reduce nutrient loads from agricultural sources flowing into the Danube and Black
Sea. The Agricultural Research, Extension and Training (ARET) Project in Georgia and the Agricultural
Pollution Control Project in Romania are already implementing GEF-funded investment and training
programs for the promotion o f environmentally friendly agricultural practices to reduce nutrient loads to
the Black Sea.     Turkey and Russia are in the process o f preparing similar investment and training
programs. Several Bank projects under the Danube h v e r Basin Environment Program and the Danube
Pollution Reduction Program are also under currently implementation. The additional value added o f Bank
and GEF support will help facilitate regional workshops and study tours to allow the sharing o f
experiences, identification of common issues and constraints, possible remedial / mitigation measures to
address transboundary water problems. The exchange o f such information and lessons leamed would help
inestablishing "good practices" for nutrient discharge measures and create a store ofglobal knowledge that
would be o f much benefit to countries seeking to address nutrient reduction concerns.

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit           NPV=USS million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 IncrementalCost
0 Other(specify)
An Incremental Cost Analysis has been undertaken for the project which compares the baseline scenario
with the GEF Altemative scenario. The baseline scenario includes activities undertaken by the country to
promote the adoption o f mitigation measures for reducing nutrient loads from agricultural sources without
GEF support. The GEF Alternative would provide the means (above andbeyondthe baseline scenario) for
meeting the proposed project's goals. The difference between the total project cost (US$10.74 million) and
the cost o f the baseline scenario (US$5.74 million) provides the incremental cost o f USS4.95 million which
would be fundedby the GEF.

The project would benefit the farmers by promoting yield-enhancing agricultural practices by using inter
alia,  low-cost inputs (such as using manure as fertilizers) that will improve productivity and overall
agricultural production. Such cost-effective project interventions will have a favorable economic impact as
they will assist in raising farm and household incomes and improving the standard o f living inthe project
area.

2. Financial(see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=USS million; FRR = YO(see Annex 4)


Fiscal Impact:
The government o f Moldova is in full support o f the project and has assured that counterpart funds would
be made available during the life of the project. Since government contribution to the project is estimated
at US$l.O million over the life o f the project (a large percentage o f which will be used to cover taxes) the


                                                     -21 -

fiscal impact is envisaged as low.

3. Technical:

The project will establish a model o f good practices to reduce nutrient run-off from agncultural practices
and buildnational capacity to replicate these practices inother parts o f Moldova. Initial studies in the pilot
watershed have identified problems with livestock waste management, absence o f crop nutrient
management, soil erosion (a significant to phosphate loss) on valley slopes cultivated with field crops, and
the summer grazing pressures in the valley close to the water table. A menu of improved agricultural
practices have been selected for testing and demonstration in 11 fields inthree communes: Pascani, Negrea
and Tochile Raducani. These practices include: nutrient management, which includes crop rotation and
other elements, conservation tillage, integrated cropping management, buffer strips in vineyards, vegetated
buffer areas, organic farming practices, and grazing management. These practices were selected as they
met certain criteria, including inter alia, cost effectiveness, low input, and readily transferable technology.
These are "tried and tested" effective solutions that are showing good results in other riparian countries
such as Romania and Georgia where similar practices are under implementation.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:
The Ministry o f Finance has designated the Ministry o f Ecology and Territorial Development as the line
Ministryresponsible for implementation.

The Bank assessed the implementational capacity o f the MECTD as well as MAFI and it was concluded
that although such capacity was limited, it was sufficient for implementation o f project activities. As
in-house experience and capacity o f the MECTD to address environmental issues was greater than that o f
the MAFI, it was agreed to designate MECTD as line ministry with overall responsibility for project
implementation. MAFI, having greater experience with agricultural matters relating to organic farming,
would be responsible for the organic farming aspects under the project. During project implementation,
capacity o f both ministries will be strengthened through relevant training programs and study tours.

4.2 Project management:


Day-to-day project management will be the task o f the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established under
the umbrella o f the CAPMU. The Steering Committee which has overall supervisory responsibility for the
RISP would also supervise the APCP so as to facilitate the close association within the two projects. The
Committee will be responsible for providing project oversight advice and assistance in resolving issues
associated with project implementation, and will ensure commitment o f the concemed Ministries.
Co-ordination among the implementing institutions at the local level will be ensured by the Project
Co-ordination Committee. The Project Manager will be the ex-officio Secretary o f the PCC.

4.3 Procurement issues:

See Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:


The financial management arrangements within the CAPMU are assessed as acceptable to the Bank.




                                                      - 22 -

CAPMU has an extensive experience inthe WB project implementation andit has well-developed fiduciary
functions that have been assessed as satisfactory during preparation for implementation o f other projects.
CAPMU's previous and current project audited financial statements are satisfactory and it has been agreed
that such arrangements will be replicated for APCP project as well. The CAPMU has prepared financial
reporting forms for the project (FMRs), as well as chart o f account, and terms o f references for the audit.

The annual audited project financial statements will be provided to the Bank within six months o f the end
o f each fiscal year and also at the closing o f the project period.

Project Special Account will be opened before project effectiveness by the CAPMU inthe commercial bank
acceptable to the World Bank.

Grant Matching Scheme that represents a part of actions provided in line with a RISP project will be
administered by the PIU working under CAPMU. These Grants will be provided on the basis o f eligibility
criteria and for the participants credited under RISP project. Each Grant will be financed on a conditional
basis and assumes 3-step financing that should allow providing control over conditions execution and
eligibility o f expenses provided.


5. Environmental:                           Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.


The environmental assessment was prepared which included undertalung visits to project sites and holding
consultative discussions with stakeholders within the project area. The environmental situation in the
project area i s summarized inthe EA which notes that poor agricultural practices are exacerbating soil and
water erosion and a lack o f appropriate fertilizers is depressing productivity. Organic fertilizers, which
could replace up to a third o f chemical fertilizers, are not being used because o f a lack o f transport and
spreading equipment or because o f poor organization to use existing equipment. Manure is being dumped
along roads, rivers and streams due to an absence o f such facilities. The concentrations o f organic
fertilizers are leaching into surface water and increasing the amount o f Nand P in the Danube Delta, thus
intensifying eutrophication rates. Also, N and P from dung is percolating into groundwater and then into
well water, causing potential health hazards. Also, existing animal numbers are greater than the carrying
capacity o f the land and pastures and woodland resources are being over-used.           In addition, because
`commercial' fuel availability has decreased, wood and residues are being used as substitutes. This is
further degrading forest areas and affecting the amount o f residues being retumed to the soil. Vineyards
and orchards are also suffering due to lack o f inputs and depressed producer prices. Agro-industries are
experiencing declining profits as factories receive poor quality or a lower volume o f deliveries. These
factories are also unable to afford proper disposal o f effluents from (reduced) outputs and much effluent is
being disposed o f in inappropriate ways, although there are (environmental) laws that govem such
disposals.

The EA determinedthat the impacts of the proposedproject are overwhelminglypositive as it would
reduce the amount of nutrients leachinginto the surface and groundwater flowing directly into the
river systems and subsequently into the Black Sea. All the project activities that may have direct
environmental implications concem Component 1: Promotion of Mitigation Measures to Reduce Nutrient
Load in Surface and Ground Water.             (Component 2: National Level Strengthening of Policy and
Regulatory Capacity and Component 3: Public Awareness and Replication Strategy will be used to
facilitate and expand Component 1 activities). Therefore, only activities under Component 1 will be dealt


                                                       - 23 -

with in detail in relation to the Environmental Management Plan. The EMP has been designed to monitor
the soil and water quality and erosion so that immediate mitigation measures could be taken ifthe potential
for environmental damage occurs. The environmental issues that are likely to require special attention
include: leakage o f the manure from the village-level storage facilities (if construction is not made
according to specifications), inappropriate manure spreading in the fields and improper cleaning o f the
individual manure storage tanks and large manure platforms.

A comprehensive soil and water quality monitoringprogram has beendevelopedto provide decision-makers
and the public officials with reliable data on problems and trends in the quality o f drinking water supplies
and the Lapusna River and its tributaries. The project will monitor: (i)   stream water quality and quantity at
4 measuring stations; (ii) groundwater with 18 piezometers to determine the trends insubsurface water; (iii)
dnnking water with the help of 12piezometers; (iv) pollution (ifany) from platforms using32 piezometers;
(v) soil monitoring [erosion and nutrient loss]; (vi) changes in woody biomass; and (vii) wetland through
biomass changes, water quality analysis and sediment quality analysis. In addition climatic data will be
recorded daily. Data from piezometers and surface water bodies will help the project in quantifying the
reduction in nutrient loads entering the Prut river, a tributary o f the Danube. Soil monitoring will be
undertaken on seven farmpractices and soil nutrient loss and erosion will be undertaken on five fields inthe
project area. The quality o f manure will be determined from platform samples and plant growth will be
analysed from demonstration plots. Environmental evaluation indicators have been reflected in the EMP,
which meet the objectives and goals o f this project.
5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?


The main feature o f the EMP is to implement a comprehensive soil and water monitoring programme inthe
project area in order to evaluate the effects o f different project activities on nutrient reduction to surface
runoff and groundwater sources. Standardized soil and water quality monitoring tests have been developed
by Moldova's scientific and government agencies. These tests will provide decision-makers and public
officials reliable data on problems and trends o fN, P and faecal quantities in:

         surface water, particularly the tributaries o f the Danube River; and
         ground water, especially inrelationto the quality o f dnnlungwater.

In addition information will be provided on the amount and type of soil particles being eroded from the
project land and their mineral and humus content. Some o f these efforts are hampered by the lack o f
adequate field, laboratory and monitoring equipment and chemicals for the operation and maintenance o f
soil and water quality monitoring laboratories o f the Soil Institute, the MECTD (water quality laboratory
and hydrological department o f the Hydro-meteorology Service, central and regional laboratories o f State
Environmental Inspectorate) and the Institute o f Forest Research and Forestry Planning and the
`Hydrometeo' service. The project will provide additional laboratory equipment, chemicals and supplies,
and training to build capacity o f the SEI. The project would fund a comprehensive soil and water quality
monitoring plan for collecting data from fields, wells, piezometers, streams, rivers and the proposed
wetland that drain nutrient loads into the Danube h v e r and the Black Sea. These data will be analysed and
made available to all stakeholders in a usable form. The project will develop and evaluate a watershed
scale computer simulation model to predict and quantify the effects o f agricultural activities in the
watershed on the reduction o f nutrients moving to the Danube River. The monitoring plan will be
implemented by the P M U with technical assistance and equipment provided by the SEI, the Soil Institute,
the Institute o f Forest Research and Forestry Planning and the `Hydrometeo' service.

Most o f the actions o f the EMP will be implemented in the first year o f the project. Environmental


                                                     - 24 -

evaluation indicators have beenreflected inthe EMP, which meet the objectives and goals o fthis project.


5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                      Date o f receipt o f final draft: May 2003

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposedenvironment management plan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The project preparation team ensured that all relevant stakeholders were regularly consulted and involved
duringthe environmental screening process, Stakeholders agreed that interventions proposed inthis project
would be very useful for the region. All communas have signed up for communal platforms and many
farmers agreed to have individual platforms.            Some o f the stakeholders have offered their fields for
demonstrations and monitoring purposes and mayors in selected villages have agreed that specific wells
should be sampled for water quality. The draft EMP has been discussed with MECTD, MAFI, and
Moldsilva, the Prefects o f Hincesti and Leova and their staff and Mayorsivice Mayors o f the communas.
The draft EMPwas widely circulated to all interestedparties for comments and inputsbefore finalization in
line with the Government Regulation on Public Participation in Environmental Decision Making(January
2000). The EMP was translated into Moldovianinearly May 2003.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?


A comprehensive soil and water monitoring programme has been developed for implementation. Project
activities will be intensively monitored to determine the impact o f the project interventions on soil and water
quality. The project will strengthen the capacity o f the MECTD (water quality laboratory and hydrological
department o f the Hydro-meteorology Service, central and regional laboratories o f State Environmental
,Inspectorate) as well as the Soil Institute to carry out water and soil quality testing and monitor
environmental requirements. It will support the incremental costs of:

     selecting and maintaining a set o f water and soil quality monitoring sites inthe project area;
     upgrading the equipment for monitoring o fwater and soil quality; and
     additional operating expenses for monitoring activities.

Stream water quality and quantity, groundwater, drinking water, pollution from platforms soil, tree
planting and management, wetland restoration will be monitored and results evaluated.               Details are
provided inthe EA and EMP on files.

I nternationa1 Waterways.
The World Bark's OPBP 7.50 applies to this project as project interventions will be camed out inselected
watershed areas o f the Prut river which is an important tributary o f the Danube river which drains into the
Black Sea (international water body).

However, the proposed project falls within the exemption to the notification requirement under paragraph
7(a) o f OP 7.50 due to the following reasons:

(i)projectinterventionswillnotengenderextractionof water oralterationinthevolumeofwaters ofthe
Danube River and Black Sea. On the contrary, the project is designed to improve the quality o f these
international water bodies by reducing nutrient loads entering these water bodies.


                                                        - 25 -

(ii)The intemationalarrangements that existbetweenMoldovaandother ripariansoftheintemational
waterways include the 1994 Convention on Cooperation and Sustainable Use o f the Danube River (Danube
River Protection Convention). It was determined that the agreement would not require notification for the
activities envisaged under the project.

(ii)The Black Sea and Danube Commissions have identifiedexcessive nutrient discharge as a major
problem facing the Danube River and Black Sea. A Strategic Action Plan (SAP) has been developed by
the Commissions to improve the waters o f the Danube river and Black Sea which has been signed by all
riparian countries. Towards this, the riparian countries have agreed to implement projects that specifically
seek to reduce nutrient loads entering surface and groundwater bodies stemming from agricultural sources
within their countries. To address the problem o f nutrient discharge as outlined in the SAP, the World
Bank and GEF established the GEFStrategic Partnership Programfor the Danube and Black Sea Basin
which has been endorsed by all riparian countries of the Danube River and Black Sea. The proposed
project has been prepared under the umbrella o f this Strategic Partnership which is essentially a tool to
implement agricultural nutrient pollution control measures outlined in SAP in the Danube and Black Sea
riparian countries. All riparian countries are kept regularly informed on ongoing activities/projects on
agricultural nutrient controlprojects through GEF progress reports as well as Commissionmeetings.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.


A baseline household survey of341 households and a less-formal needs assessmentwere prepared as a first
step in identifyingkey social issues inthe pilot watershed area. The survey highlightedthe following:

     the high level o fpoverty inthe area and agriculture geared primarily towards subsistence;
     about one third of farmers worked their land in association; about one quarter leased out their land
     holding;
     unauthorized dumping o f household and livestock waste was considered the main environmental
     problem inthe villages followed by pollution o f drinkingwater;
     responsibility for resolving these problems was considered to lie with the Mayor and community;
     the village population had little appreciation o f the range o f environmental issues influencingtheir daily
     life; and
     with regard to sources o f information, television featured prominently;

While the project focuses on reducing nutrient discharge, proposals will be aimed at introducing practices
that will lead to more sustainable agricultural systems and higher farm incomes. Social development
outcomes will also include improved health as the quality o f dnnking water wells is improved.


6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?


Various stakeholders o f the project have been consulted frequently during project preparation. These
include small farmers, members of farming organizations, agro-processing factory managers, NGOs such
as ACSA, and REC, the Prefects of Hincesti and Leova and their staff, Mayors and Vice Mayors of the
eleven communes, officials of MECTD, MAFI, Moldsilva, Agency o f Geology (AgeoM) the
Meteorological Department, and intemational agencies like the EU and UNDP. These stakeholders were
visited individually or in groups and `village meetings' were held. A baseline survey and needs assessment


                                                       - 26 -

program was undertaken (document available with Project Preparation Unit) where respondents were asked
about their agricultural practices, livestock numbers, accessibility to markets, health issues, etc. The
purpose of the project was explained and the needto address the ongoing soil and water quality problems in
the region and their effect on the river system and the Danube Delta.         A record of these visits and
discussions are on the project files and inthe various World Bank documents, includmg the Aide-memoires,
Environmental Assessment and Baseline Household Survey.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Project preparation is being undertaken with the full involvement and participation of government
counterparts, various research institutions, NGOs and relevant civil society organizations. A program of
regular consultation has been initiated and the conclusions of local consultants' initial recommendations
were presented at a stakeholder consultative workshop held on April 29       -  30, 2002 in Chisinau. The
Baseline Household Survey and Needs Assessment was prepared by the local NGO, Independent
Sociological and Information Service - Opinia.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have beenprovidedto ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The Project Management Unit will ensure full participation o f beneficiaries in the implementation of the
project. Proposals will be developed for the P M U to (a) annually monitor and evaluate project progress
and measure the impact o f project activities against the socio-economic baseline survey undertaken during
project preparation; and (b) undertake a systematic analysis o f the impact and achievements of project
activities and the results o f the M&E activities which will be fed back into the implementation process as
improved practices.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms o f social development outcomes?


Monitoring will be based on the baseline survey undertaken during preparation phase o f the project.
Extensive data from communes and villages has been collected and the Project Preparation Unit will
develop performance indicators based on Annex 1. A well-designed monitoring and evaluation system that
will include social indicators will be developed by the P M U with assistance from international consultants
who have worked on similar projects in other Black Sea riparian countries such as Romania.




                                   Policy                                            Triggered
    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                        0 Yes 0No
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                0 Yes 0 No
                                                                                0 Yes 0
1   Forestrv (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                 oYes      NO
            . _ \
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                          O  NO
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                               0Yes 0 No
    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                c) Yes 0 No
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                       c) Yes 0 No
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                           0 Yes 0 No
    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                0 Yes 0 No
    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                     0 Yes 0   No

7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.



                                                    - 27 -

Environmentalassessment carried out and an EMP developed. See Annex 11.

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Institutional sustainability - The PIU, which will be established under the overall umbrella o fthe CAPMU,
will work closely with the RISP-supported agencies in the implementation o f components at the national
level. With regard to interventions in the pilot watershed area, PIU will work with a Project Consultative
Committee which comprises key local officials and stakeholders. The MOF, MECTD and MAFI at the
national level as well as the local government agencies, communa Mayors and farming communities are in
full support o f the project.      The project will provide assistance for capacity building in policy and
regulatory matters which will enable MECTD and MAFIto establish a sound basis for overall management
o f the project.

Social sustainability - the project has emphasized the early involvement of key stakeholders in project
preparation and implementation, including policy makers, local public officials and community leaders,
farmers, their associations, NGOs. Such involvement will create a sense o f ownership and contribute to
social sustainability.

Financial Sustainability The project would benefit the farmers by promoting yield-enhancing agricultural
                           -
practices that will improve productivity and overall agricultural production. Also, the promotion o f organic
farming has the potential to open new markets for the local farmers. Such project interventions will assist
in raising farm and household incomes and improving the standard o f living in the project area.
Sustainability o f funding for watershed management operations after the life o f the project will be ensured
once the long-term economic benefits o f project interventions become evident to the local and national
populations and government.

la. Replicability:
Project's activities have been developed to maximize the potential for replicability. A specific component
on replication strategy has been developed under the project whereby a public awareness and
communication campaign on project activities and benefits will be undertaken to generate interest for
replication o f project interventions both within and outside Moldova and in other riparian countries. This
will be achieved through national and regional workshops, field trips, training, publication in international
agriculture and environmental journals, participation in Global Distance Leaming programs and other
similar activities.   In addition the location of the pilot watershed area makes it easily accessible for
demonstrations which will help increase potential for replicationo fproject activities.

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                     Risk                          Risk Ratina                  Risk Mitiaation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Lowhadequate commitment from                             N          National public awareness program will be
national and local governments and                                  targeted at key audience, including policy
institutes for project activities leading to                        makers to mobilize support for improving water
increased pollution o f the rivers draining                         quality. Participatory approach in developing
into the Danube River and Black Sea, and                            plans and staff training
failure o f national and local authorities to
avert further damage.
Implementing agencies may be unable to                   N          RISP project covers cost o f farm advisors.


                                                       - 28 -

attract and retain qualified staff.                                  Project will provide training and career
                                                                     development benefits.
Lack o f fiscal resources may preclude                   S           Project benefits will demonstrate efficacy and
replication o f project activities inother                           broader long-term benefits as well as need for
similar sites o f Moldova.                                           replication which will help in garnering
                                                                     government support; exploration o fpossible
                                                                     donors.
Agro-processors & farmers don't have                     M           Ago-processors will receive 25 - 50% grant for
access to credit, machinery and inputs that                          costs o f measures. Villages will receive grants
would enable them to practice mitigation                             for construction o f solid waste manure
measures.                                                             stores. Cost sharing inkindby farmers will be
                                                                     encouraged, thus reducing the needfor cash
                                                                     contributions.
From Componentsto Outputs
Farmers are less willing to accept                       N           Regular social assessment; participatory
improved, environment-fhendly                                        approach to project implementation; careful
agricultural practices.                                              validation o fproposed environment -fhendly
                                                                     practices and staff and farmer training;
                                                                     on-location advice; and advocacy o f immediate
                                                                     and long-term benefits o fproject activities.
                                                                     Public awareness campaign to disseminate
                                                                     information on the benefits andresults o f
                                                                     environment-hendly agricultural practices.
Beneficiaries cannot develop new manure                  S           Early designs andpilots will be implemented to
handlingand storage systems that are                                 develop low-cost manure handling and storage
financially attractive.                                              systems that are fmancially attractive to
                                                                     farmers.
Overall Risk Rating                                      M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligib1e or Low Risk)


3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There are no controversial aspects.

G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The MECTD shall maintain the P M U until completion of the Project with staff, resources and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, and shall assign to it responsibility for overall Project management and
coordination. Any changes to the composition o f the PJU will be undertaken upon agreement with Bank.

The Government shall provide as neededthe finds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.




                                                       - 29 -

The MECTD shall make a portion of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant available to eligible
Beneficiaries under a Sub-grant Agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and each Beneficiary,
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank. The first three Sub-grant
Agreements shall be subject to the Bank's prior review and agreement.

The MECTD shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive a Sub-grant Agreement without agreement with
the Bank.

The CAPMU will maintain a financial management system satisfactoryto the Bank, including records and
accounts in a format acceptableto the Bank and adequate to reflect the operationsand expenditures related
to the Project.

The Government shall appoint independent auditors with experience qualifications and terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank.

The MECTD shall ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out of the Environinental
ManagementPlan are taken in a timely manner.

H. Readiness for lmplementation
w   1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
          of project implementation.
0 1. b)Notapplicable.

    2. The procurementdocuments for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
       project implementation.
    3. The Project lmplementation Plan has been appraisedand found to be realistic and of satisfactory
       quality.
    4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):




I. Compliance with Bank Policies
:x1  , This project complies Lvith all applicable Bank policies.
il' 2. The following exceptionsto Bankpolicies are recommendedfor approval. The project coinplies Lvith
       all other applicable Bank policies.




 Aleksandar Nacev                          Marjory-AnneBromhcad                     Luca Barbone
 Team Leader                               Sector ManagedDirector                   Country ManagerlDirector




                                                     - 30

                                     Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                     MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
                                     Key Performance              Data Collection Strategy
 Hierarchv of Obiectives                  Indicators                                                CriticalAssumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:        Sector Indicators:               Sector/ country reports:        :fromGoal to Bank Mission)
tmprove economic growth anc                                      igricultural statistics         [mproved practices in
reduce poverty and social       Increased awareness o f threats                                  igro-industry and on-farm
hardship by promoting           to pollution o f trans-boundary  'eriodic data collection on     :ontribute to national
macroeconomic stability and     water bodies from nutrients,     ;oiland water quality o f       xonomy through an increase
growth, private sector          from animal waste and            najor water bodies.             naverage incomes, and
development and public sectox   agricultural chemicals                                           mvironmental enhancement.
reform. Sustainable private
sector development in
agriculture with protection o f
natural resources, including
reduced nutrient discharge.
Assist Moldova in               Progress towards meeting         qational reports                Policy standards adopted meet
implementing the National       environmental compliance                                         EU requirements
Environment Strategy Plan       targets with EUnitrates
1995 -2020                      legislation.


GEF Operational Program:        Outcome I Impact
                                Indicators:
The Project's objective of                                       igricultural Statistics         Sovemment's ability to
reducing nutrient discharge to                                   Zegional Surveys and            mobilize resources to reduce
the water bodies feeding into                                    :ollection o f periodic data on threats to water bodies and
the Danube river and Black                                       vater quality from major        build institutional capacity for
Sea is consistent with OP NO.   Gradual Improvements in soil     vater bodies.                   future environmental
8, Water body based             and water quality                                                shallenges
OperationalProgram which                                         Zegional Surveys
focuses mainly on threatened                                                                     Sustained effort to raise the
water bodies and the most                                                                        public awareness and demand
important trans-boundary                                                                         for protection and
threats to their ecosystems.                                                                     improvement to
Project goals are also                                                                           znvironmental factors
consistent with OP No. 9,
Integrated Land and Water
Multiple Focal Area which
supports comprehensive
approaches for restoring and
protecting the international
waters environment.




Global Objective:               Outcome I Impact                 'reject reports:                (from Objectiveto Goal)
                                Indicators:
The Project's development                                        igricultural statistics         Project-developed
objective i s to significantly  Improved water quality (N&P                                      interventions are replicated on
increase the use o f mitigation levels will be measured and                                      a wide scale.



                                                            - 31 -

neasures by agro-industry      compared against baseline        Social SurveyiAssessment
ndfarmers to reduce            data gathered during initial
lutrient discharge into the    project implementation)
urface and ground water
lodies in Moldova.             Improved soil quality through    9nnual regional and national
                               erosion control                  `eports

                               Improved quality of drinking
                               water

                               Enhancedbiodiversity
                               through the establishment o f
                               improved habitat through tree
                               planting and sustainable
                               wetland management

                               Increased awareness o f
                               environmental issues in
                               agro-industry and among
                               farmers

                               Increased number o f
                               agro-processors adopting
                               mitigation measures, and
                               increased area o f agricultural
                               land with resource
                               conservation technologies,
                               and increased production o f
                               organically-certified products.
h e global environmental                                         nterviews with              4doption of improved
,oal is to reduce, over the    Highsatisfaction rate among      igro-processors, farmer      znvironmental policies by
sng-term, the discharge o f    participatingagro-processors     Croups and local govemments zovemment to address
utrients and other             and farmers.                                                  ion-point agricultural
gricultural pollutants into the                                                              Jollution control.
lanube River and Black Sea
hrough (i)collaboration with Demand for project
gro-industry and farmers       interventions by farmers
lenefiting from RISP and (ii) outside pilot watershed area
nterventions in a pilot        and from other riparian
qatershed area.                countries.




M p u t from each              Output Indicators:               'roject reports:             :from Outputs to Objective)
:omponent:
.  Implementation o f          3 communehillage stores          2uarterly reports            rechnologies respond to
ilitigation Measures for       :onstructed together with                                     igro-processors' and farmers'
educing nutrient load          1200 householdstores                                          ieeds.

kvelopment and provision of 50% o f farmers trained in
litigation measure packages    ipplication o f



                                                           - 32 -

o r agro-processing plants      environmentally friendly
                                agricultural practices
Ievelopment and provision o f
nvironmentally friendly          2 embankments reinforced in
igricultural practices for pilot wetland area; 3 concrete and
vatershed area.                  10wooden bridges installed to
                                provide access.
rraining o f agricultural
:xtension staff                  Installation o f 18 piezometers
                                to determine trends in surface
                                 and ground water quality as it
                                moves from communal,
                                residential and agricultural
                                land towards Lapusna river.

                                 255 hectares of forests
                                 rehabilitated with species that
                                 have high capacity for nitrate
                                uptake; 50 hectares o f pasture
                                 lands brought under
                                 controlled management to
                                 restrict cattle access to water,
                                 thus reducing the impact o f
                                 grazing on existing pastures.

                                 Increased number o f
                                 agro-processors adopting
                                mitigation measures and
                                 increased area o f agricultural
                                 land with resources
                                 conservation technologies

                                 Increased production o f
                                 organically-certified products.



                                 Local people aware and
                                 broadly involved inproject
                                 interventions. Packages
                                 developed and
                                 testeddemonstrated in
                                 outreach program

                                 A monitoring system to
                                 determine the impact o f
                                project interventions on soil
                                 quality installed. Relevant
                                 laboratory staff trained.




1. Development and                                                      zontinued support and



                                                              - 33 -

Implementationof National                                       Supervision Reports    mforcement o f policy
Policy,IncreasedRegulator3      Policy framework for
Enforcementand                  non-source pollution meeting
Institutional Capacity          EUcriteria inplace.
Support to MECTD for work
on application o f EUNitrates
Directive                                                                              'rovide resources to monitor
                                                                                       md regulate standards.
Stricter enforcement of
legislation relatedto
non-source pollution control    Adoption o f code o f good
                                Agricultural practices.
Development o f Code o f Good
Agricultural                    Standards developed,
                                certification process
Strengthening o f institutional established and legislation in
arrangements for Organic       place.
farming
3. IncreasedPublic
Awareness & Development
of Replication Strategy
                                Public awareness and                                   :armers and leaders in other
Increased knowledge &           adoption o f                                           :ountries become interested in
awareness o f ways to reduce    environment-friendly                                   .educingnon-point source
nutrient pollution o f water    agricultural practices                                 )ollution from agriculture and
body at local and national                                                             illocate resources to replicate
level                                                                                  lroject activities.
                                Public and farmers aware o f
Increased Awareness and         the potential to improve
demand for replication inthe    income while protecting the
region.                         environment.

                                Workshops, field visits, study
                               tours to pilot area and other
                                Black Sea riparian countries
                                already implementing similar
                               projects to share experiences
                                and promote replication.




4. Project Management          Continued support from the                              idequate availability o f
Well-managed project.          Project Steering Committee                              iecessary institutional support
                                                                                       ;ovemment agencies
                                                                                       'roject incentives are
                                                                                       iufficient to motivate farmers
                                                                                       o participate inthe project
                                                                                       kforcement o f land-use plan
                                                                                       mplementing agencies may
                                                                                       )e unable to attract and retain
                                                                                       lualified staff, inadequate
                                                                                       aboratory facilities
                                                                                       :ontimed support and will



                                                           - 34 -

                                                                             or enforcing policy
                                                                             'imely availability of
                                                                             ounterpart funds

Project Components I         Inputs: (budget for each    Voject reports:     from Componentsto
Sub-components:              component)                                      Iutputs)

1. Promotion of Mitigation   US$9.66 million             'rogress reports
measures for Reducing
Nutrient Loads in
Waterbodies

2. Strengthening National    USS0.09 million             'rogress reports
Policy, Regulatory
Enforcement and Institutional
capacity

3. Public Awareness and      US$0.37 million             'rogress reports
Replication Strategy

4. Project Implementation    USS0.62 million
Unit




                                                     - 35 -

                                  Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                  MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT

Project Area:

The Agricultural Pollution Control Project (APCP) will be implemented at two levels:

At countw level APCP will be closely associated with the IDA credit-financed Rural Investment and
Services Project (RISP), an Adjustment Lending Program (APL) for U S 2 5 . 0 million. From the already
approved first tranche o f US$10.5 million, an amount o f US$3.93 million has been allocated for APCP
activities. RISP provides post privatization support to increase rural incomes and living standards by
promoting rural entrepreneurship, agricultural production, economic diversification, and trade in the rural
area. These objectives are sought to be achieved by providing two credit lines: (a) General Commercial
Credit Line opened to a broad range o f rural entrepreneurs at commercial terms and conditions through
commercial banks; and (b) a Special Credit Line with a matching grant targeted for newly formed farmer
organizations and cooperatives, to support (hew clients" without past credit history to access commercial
credits and to be implemented through commercial banks. Entrepreneurs/enterprises who borrow under
RISP (individual farmers, farmers organizations, cooperatives and agricultural processors) and wish to
invest in environmentally sustainable agricultural practices, would receive a grant from the GEF fund to
offset the incremental cost o f nutrient reduction investments.

At a selectedpilot watershed area in the Hincesti and Leova raions that lie incentral Moldovawithin the
basin o f River Lapusnita, a main tributary o f Rwer Prut which in turn is a large tributary of the Danube
River. The two raions were selected as the pilot watershed areas as they met the following criteria: (a)
country representativeness in terms o f agro-industrial practices as well as soil, climate and other
geo-ecological conditions; (b) catchments represent national agricultural patterns- arablelands, grasslands,
vineyards, orchards, processing industry (vine factories, mill processing, etc.); (c) nutrient pollution o f
ground and surface water excessive and typical o f most streams in Moldova - studies revealed that nitrates
pollute over 65% o f the shallow wells within residential areas which exceeds national and intemational
standards; (d) local authoritiesicommunities aware and concerned about environmental problems and
actively motivated to address these; (e) accessible road network and communication necessary for
replication o f project activities.

The pilot watershed area covers eleven communas and comprises about 50,000 hectares with a population
o f more than 43,000, or 14,000 households, in 18 villages.        Over 66% o f the pilot area is used for
agricultural purposes. The principal activity o f local farmers i s crop farming; main crops include grains
(mainly wheat and maize),          vegetables (cabbages, cucumbers, beets and carrots) and fmits (grapes,
tomatoes) grown on arable lands. Other important crops include tobacco, sugarbeet and soya beans.
Vineyards and orchards comprise a significant share o f the land: 17% and 7% respectively. Over 15% o f
the agricultural area comprises grasslands and pastures used for livestock grazing. Most o f the livestock is
heldby private individual owners. Livestock in the watershed area include: cattle (over 5,000 heads); pigs
(over 9,000 heads); sheep and goats (15,000 heads); horses (1,000 heads); and poultry (166,000 heads).
The principal agro-industrial activity in the region i s associated with wine production and a number o f
important wine making factories are situated within the pilot area. The agro-processing sector is also
characterized by small enterprises such as flour mills, oil pressing plants, fruit and vegetable processing
plants, canning factories, etc.




                                                      - 36 -

By Component:

Project Component 1: Promotion of Mitigation Measures for Reducing Nutrient Loads in Water bodies        -
US$9.66 million

This component would be implemented at two levels: first, in close association with the Rural Investment
Services Project's components for business development in agriculture andor agro-industry, rural support
services and rural finance; second, in a pilot watershed area comprising part o f the Lapusna tributary o f the
Prut River where an integrated watershed management plan will be implemented for agricultural pollution
control and nutrient reduction investments.

A. Activities under RISP

Rural Investment and Services Proiect (RISP).        The project would be closely associated with the IDA
credit-financed Rural Investment and Services Project (RISP) that has been negotiated as an Adjustment
Lending Program for a total amount of US$25.0 million IDA credit. The first tranche of US$lO.O million
has already been committed. The project i s providing post-privatization technical and financial support to
increase rural incomes and living standards by promoting rural entrepreneurship, agricultural production,
economic diversification, and trade in the rural areas. The project has both institutional beneficiaries, e.g.
local NGOs o f advisory and extension agencies, service providers, etc. and a broad range o f private
entrepreneurs in rural areas.     RISP accords priority to high value commodities, such as fruits and
vegetables with export potential. RISP's four components include: (i)      Rural Advisory Services; (ii)Rural
Business Development Services; (iii)Rural Finance; and (iv) Project Management. The Rural Finance
component i s providing two credit lines, namely: (a) General Commercial Credit Line that will be open to
a broad range o f rural entrepreneurs at commercial terms and conditions through commercial banks; and
(b) a Special Credit Line with a matching grant targeted for newly formed farmer organizations and
cooperatives, to support "new clients" without past credit history to access commercial credits and to be
implemented through commercial banks. In addition, this component would support the provision o f
technical assistance to participating financial institutions, State Supervisory Body, and Savings and Credit
Associations

APCP Support under RISP:           Entrepreneurslenterprises who borrow under RISP (individual farmers,
farmers organizations, cooperatives and agricultural processors) and wish to invest in environmentally
sustainable agricultural practices, would receive a grant from the GEF fund to offset the incremental cost
o f nutrient reduction investments.     Thus the purpose of the APCP Environmental Mitigation Grant
Program is to provide supplemental nutrient discharge mitigation grants which will serve as a financial
incentive to borrowers under RISP to implement agricultural pollution mitigation structures and procedures
with the aim o f protecting Moldova's environmental resources while encouraging agribusiness
development.

The GEF facilities will provide grant fimds o f up to USS2 million in support o f the Special Credit Line o f
the RISP, specifically to cover most o f the cost of mitigation measures required to reduce nutrient
discharge.   These grants are to encourage and serve as a financial incentive for the installation o f
agricultural pollution mitigation structures and procedures to protect Moldova's environmental resources
while encouraging agri-business development.          The types o f facilities that might benefit from this
component would include wineries, livestock slaughter houses, meat packaging plants, chicken units,
animal feed processing plants, etc.       The credit-grant package would be administered by the local



                                                      - 37 -

commercial credit institutions that participate in the RISP. The project will train RISP-financed rural
advisory service providers in several nutrient reduction practices, including crop nutrient management,
conservation tillage practices, crop rotation and tree planting o f buffer strips etc. Credit officers o f the
participating banks and rural business developers will be trained in the mechanisms o f grant provision; the
training will allow them to inform credit recipients o f the availability o f the grants, the eligibility criteria
and the application procedures for grant funds.

The eligibility criteria for the provision o f a GEF grant will be primarily to support those activities that will
reduce nutrient loads to waterbodies.          Briefly, the eligibility criteria for the APCP Environmental
Mitigation Grants are as follows:

A: Businesses with potential nutrient discharge may be those projects having the following characteristics
or be the following types:

    1) Animal production(milk,meat, etc);
    2) Crop production (orchards, vineyard, vegetables, flowers (horticultural), etc.)
    3) Processingunits/mils/or plants for agricultural products ('juice production, vegetable oil
         extraction, wine production, etc.);
    4) Irrigation projects that will introduce water as a nutrient transport medium;
    5) Green house projects that introduce nutrient leaching below the organic bed.

B: Adaptability for the implementationo fthe mitigationmeasure:

    1) Availability o fexisting mitigationmeasures;
    2) Applicability o f nutrient mitigationmeasures to the project site.

The APCP Environmental Mitigation Grant application and approval process will be conducted in two
phases. Phase Iwill determine the eligibility o f RISP Credit applicants for an Environmental Mitigation
Grant, determine the mitigation strategy to be implemented, and establish a cost basis for the APCP grant.
Phase I1 will involve the disbursement o f the grant, determination o f design criteria for the mitigation
procedures, and implementation o f the mitigation. These phases are briefly summarized in the following
two sections.

Phase I:The Agricultural Pollution Control Project Grant Application will be initiated concurrently with
the RISP Business Sub-loan Credit Application with assistance to grant applicants provided by trained
members o f the RISP preparation teams. An easy-to-use APCP Environmental Eligibility Questionnaire
will facilitate the initial determination o f APCP eligibility. After completion, the RISP team will forward
the Eligibility Questionnaire form to the APCP office. The APCP team and their specialists will review the
responses on the questionnaire form and check them against designated Environmental Mitigation
Eligibility Criteria (EMEC). If the applicant does not meet EMEC and qualify for the APCP. grant
program, the RISP team will be notified immediately. Projects meeting the EMEC will be reviewed further
to identify proper nutrient discharge mitigation measures. A site visit will likely be necessary to evaluate
needs for manure storage facilities, soil and water conservation measures, and nutrient management
planning. A section in the Environmental Mitigation Grant Guidelines Operational Manual i s composed o f
cost evaluation tables that may be used to estimate costs associated with implementation o f the nutrient
discharge control measures. The cost evaluation tables and unit rate descriptions will help provide a cost
basis for the APCP Environmental Mitigation Grant. The detailed grant documentation (including detailed
design, bill o f quantities and cost estimates), developed with assistance o f technical experts, will be
reviewed by the Grants Evaluation Committee (GEC). The GEC is assigned to review grant applications,


                                                       - 3%-

prioritize the applications, and agree on the final list o f grant recipients. The GEC will comprise of: APCP
P I U staff, RISP PMU staff, CAPMU staff and an independent Environmental Expert.

Phase 11: The grant would be disbursed to the applicant at three separate stages o f the implementation
period:

(a)       An initial payment totaling an agreed percentage o f the APCP grant would be disbursed at grant
signing (no more than 30%). This disbursement would pay for the initial cost o f the mitigation measures
implementation including tendering, purchase o f the required materials, and initiation of the work.

(b)      Following APCP inspection and approval of the tasks described in item (a), a second payment
would be disbursed in an amount equal to an agreed percentage o f the total APCP grant. Upon receipt o f
the second payment, the applicant should start construction andor field implementation of the mitigation
measures. Definite progress should be made towards implementing the identifiedmitigation measure(s).

(c)      Following APCP inspection and approval o f the tasks described in item (b), the last payment in an
amount o f the balance percentage o f the total APCP grant would be dispersed. The APCP appointed
specialist should verify that the two previous payments have been used to accomplish the tasks related to
the implementation o fthe mitigation measure(s).

Failure to complete the mitigation implementation would generate a waming letter from either the
commercial bank or the APCP Project Management Unit and sent to the grantee. This letter will provide a
warning and notify the grantee that helshe has an additional six months to initiate the mitigation measures.
Ifthemitigationisnotinitiatedwithinsixmonthsandcompletedwithintwelvemonths,thegrantwouldbe
terminated and the grantee would be requiredto retum the amount o f the grant plus the accrued interest (at
the rate o f the RISP loan) to the designated account by the APCP Project Management Unit. Amount
accumulated in this account would be granted to other RISP sub-loan applicants who meet the nutrient
discharge eligibility criteria usingthe standard procedures described inthis document.

Ifbased on the demand for RISP credit, the total demand for APCP grants is less thenUS$2.0 million, the
balance funds would be used for other activities within the general framework o f APCP.

B. Activities inPilot WatershedArea.

Manure Management Practices. This sub-component will provide grants for the installation o f up to 8
communal        and 1200 household platforms and equipment for manure collection, transportation and
application. Grants on a cost-sharing basis o f about 70% o f total costs would be provided for the
construction o f village-level manure facilities and small storage bunkers with effluent collection facilities at
the household level, as well as supply o f equipment for manure handling and spreading. Villages and
households wishing to participate in the investment program would be selected against agreed criteria and
cost-sharing arrangements. The project would provide for materials for the construction o f village and
household platforms, equipment (loader, tractor, spreader, trailer, tanker, shredder), technical assistance
and training while the Government contribution would consist o f exemption from taxes and fees as well as
salaries for environmental inspectorate agencies and other governmental staff, who would be involved in
evaluation and monitoring activities. The community would contribute inparticular with labor, improving
the access roads to the platforms and circulation o f the necessary documents.

The project will provide for a training program for mayors, farmers, householders and operational staff
before any investments in materials or equipment will be authorized. The training program would seek to:


                                                      - 39 -

(i) thepublicthathavemadeappropriateinvestmentsinchangingtheirpracticesandimprovingthe
   educate
quality o f life for their communities; (ii)achieve a high level o f participation in household and commune
level platform use; (iii)encourage recycling o f wastes to the land for improved crop production; (iv)
promote the correct use o f the facilities; (v) maximize the number of households served; (vi) safeguard the
quality o f materials for recycling; (vii) ensure sufficient land will be made available for the recycling o f
stored waste materials; (viii) encourage responsible recycling.

Promotion o f Environmentally Friendly Agricultural Practices.

This sub-component will promote the adoption o f environment-friendly agncultural practices that will
improve agricultural production while reducing nutrient discharge into waterbodies. Techtllcal assistance
and financial support will be provided for sustainable agncultural practices, including: (i)nutrient
management     -  the application o f annual waste materials on agricultural land areas at rates determined by
the nutrient needs o f crops and nutrient content o f the waste; (ii) conservation tillaae - crop production in
which the crop residues from the previous crop remain on the soil surface to provide erosion protection;
(iii)
    intearated cropping management -the use o f crop rotations and strip cropping to prevent erosion and
provide adequate supplies o f animal feed and forages in integrated farming systems; (iv) vegetated bgffer
a ~ e a permanent vegetated strips would be established at field and stream riparian boundaries and in
      -  ~
water courses that will reduce and help prevent soil loss and its associated nutrient loss loads, and (v)
promotion of organic-farming - as soon as organic farming certification procedures are defined at national
level, small organic farming areas would be established in villages throughout the two raions to
demonstrate and help educate farmers on appropriate procedures for the production o f organic fruits and
vegetables.

Agro-Forestry Practices

This sub-component mainly would invest in:

(i)     Planting o f forest belts for the protection o f water bodies;
(ii)    Tree plantingon degraded land;
(iii)   Ecologicalreconstruction o f forests -255 ha;
(iv)    Agro-forestry practices - 53 ha.

Shrub and tree planting will primarily be done by the State Forestry Service "Moldsilva" as the only
agency which has the necessary technical facilities. It will contribute with equipment, samples, and other
reproductive material as well as technical assistance. The communes will mainly contribute with labor and
other available means as necessary. The Mayors will be responsible for the organization o f planting on
commune land. The supervision and general technical assistance will be performed by an agro-forest
engineer contracted by P I U in accordance with State Forestry Service "Moldsilva."

Silvo-pastoral activities: These activities include planting o f shrub and trees inside and on the perimeter o f
the pasture as green hedge in the scope to restrict cattle access to the water, thus reducing the impact of
grazing on existing pastures. The proposed total surface area o f pasture to be properly managed i s o f 50
hectares.

Wetland Restoration. This sub-component will enhance the nutrient filtration capacity o f the wetland at the
intersection o f the Lapusna and Prut rivers and help to restore the degraded wetland to its former natural
state.  Activities under the sub-component include: (i)forestry activities such as planting o f forest
vegetation with species that have high capacity for nitrate uptake and retention both infloodplain areas and


                                                      - 40 -

terraces exposed to erosion; (ii)   hydrologic enhancement practices, such as embankment reinforcements for
the stabilization o f water level, three concrete and ten wooden bridges to provide access to different parts o f
the wetland, etc. (iii)  sanitation activities, including removal o f the existing waste dump to the commune
platforms; and (iv) public awareness activities to educate local inhabitants o f the importance and fragility
o fwetland ecosystems.

Soil and Water Oualitv Monitoring in the Hincesti and Leova Raions: This project will strengthen the
capacity o f the Ministry o f Ecology, Construction and Territorial Development (water quality laboratory
and hydrological department o f the Hydrometeorology State Service, central and regional laboratories o f
State Environmental Inspectorate) as well as Institute for Pedology and Soil Science to carry out water and
soil quality testing and monitor environmental requirements. The project will support the incremental costs
O f


(i)selectingandmaintainingasetofwaterandsoilqualitymonitoringsitesintheprojectarea;
(ii)upgradingtheequipmentformonitoringofwaterandsoilquality;and
(iii)incremental operating expenses for monitoring activities.

Two paired watersheds, named Balceana and Old Negrea, have been selected for small watershed
monitoring scheme. The Balceana tributary will serve as a control sub-basin, which is associated with the
control segment o f the Lapusna catchment (Sofia commune). The Old Negrea tributary will be used as a
treated sub-basin.

Soil and Water Monitoring Program: An extensive soil and water quality testing program will be
established for the proposed project area consisting o f eight communes to monitor the changing quality o f
surface and ground water bodies (in response to the implementation o f new and better management
practices in the project area) that eventually are draining into the Danube River. Talung into consideration
the balance between advantages and disadvantages for various monitoring strategies, number o f local and
site specific conditions, and the guidelines providedby the U S Environmental Protection Agency (Spooner,
et. al., 1985), Paired-Watershed and UpstreamDownstream designs will be used under the project. A
combination o f these two designs should provide appropriate data for determining the effects o f the
improved environmentally-sound agncultural practices as well as watershed-level trend analyses for
identifying the severity o f the pollution problem.

Groundwater Monitoring: Groundwater quality monitoring scheme is designed to include three transects o f
wells (piezometers). Each transect will consist o f 6 piezometers (3 piezometers to the left and 3 piezometers
to the right o f the river bank). These piezometers will be installed up-gradient from the edge o f the river to
the edge o f the village or to the edge o f agncultural fields. A total o f 18 piezometers will be constructedto
determine the trends in the subsurface water quality as it moves from the communal residential and
agricultural land towards the Lapsuna river. Samples collected from these piezometers will be used to
determine the trend o f pollutant transport via subsurface flow, thus helping to assess the impact o f the
pasture area on the quality o f base-flow entering the Lapsuna river. In addition, the piezometer data will
enable the project to determine the beneficial impact o f combined practices on reducing the pollutant levels
inthe river.

In addition to the 18 monitoring piezometers constructed along the river basin, a set of piezometers also
will be used to assess the impacts o f nutrient and bacteriological pollution sources on the existing dnnking
water wells situated within the residential areas. The goal o f this monitoring scheme is to identify the
pathways and sources o f pollution to the shallow drinking water wells. It is hypothesized that dnnking
water wells in the residential areas are contaminated either at the well head area (by yard runoff or by


                                                       -41 -

  direct polluted water dump near the well) or via subsurface movement o f pollutants from the pollution
  sources such as animal waste storage pile, livestock stable area, and outhouse toilets. Two piezometers will
  be installed inthe direction o f the groundwater flow near an existing shallow drinkingwater well (one near
  the pollution source and another near the dnnlung water well). Drinking water well, selected in the lower
  part o f village, will also serve as an additional sampling point. This monitoring scheme will be replicated
  three times in the communes selected in the control portion o f the pilot watershed (Balceana or Sofia) and
  three times in the treated portion o f the pilot watershed (Negrea). In all, 12 constructed piezometers and 6
  existing drinking water wells will be monitored to assess the seriousness and sources of contamination to
  the dnnlung water at the households andvillages.

  Project Component 2: Strengthening National Capacity, Regulatory Enforcement and Institutional
  Capacity (US%0.09 million).

  The project will assist the Ministry o f Ecology, Construction and Territorial Development (MECTD) and
Ministry o f Agriculture and Food Industry (MAFI) in: (i)developing the Code o f Good Agricultural
Practices; and (ii)  strengthening the capacity o f the Government o f the Republic o f Moldova in its efforts to
promote scientifically grounded organic farming and landuse management.

  The Republic o f Moldova ratified the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement (PCA) with the European
  Community and its member states in 1998. According to Article 50 o f the PCA, Moldova shall endeavor to
  ensure that its legislation will gradually be made compatible with that o f the Community, with regard to
  several sectors, including the environmental sector. The project will also provide technical assistance to
  MAFI and logistical support for the preparation o f a Code o f Good Agncultural Practices. MAFIwill be
the responsible agency for the development o f the Code in close cooperation with MECTD.

-.                    The project will assist the Government o f Moldova in its efforts to promote organic
  farming, including production, certification and marketing. Moldova has the necessary pre-requisites for
promotion o f organic farming such as warm climate, fertile soils, and traditional knowledge on avoiding
  excessive use o f fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides, etc. However, farmers encounter problems related to
the export o f ecologically clean products in the EC market. Recently, the Government received a grant
within TACIS Program for a pilot project which aims to prepare recommendations for strengthening the
policy and regulatory capacity at the national level for promoting organic agnculture, including production,
  certification and marketing o f organic products. APCP will help the government inthese efforts and define
the necessary timing, costs and institutional responsibilities in the preparation and implementation o f these
recommendations which will assist in the strengthening o f the policy and regulatory system at the national
  level and a sound strategy for the marketing o f organically produced goods.

  Project Component 3: Public Awareness and Replication Strategy US$ 0.37 million
                                                                      -

The project will support public awareness efforts at the local, national and regional level to disseminate
benefits o f project interventions and promote replication o f the pilot activities in similar areas o f Moldova
  and other Black Sea riparian countries.

Local Level Hincesti and Leova raions. The objectives o f the public awareness campaign at local level
                 -
are to familiarize the population and help induce the behavioral changes necessary to the success o f the
project (use o f household manure storage bunkers and village-level livestock waste stores, respecting the
environment-friendly agricultural practices, etc.) inthe eight selected communes and support the replication
o f this component inLapusna Judet.



                                                        - 42 -

The project will develop a three-step approach to the public communication strategy and a layering o f the
message so that the targeted audiences recognize the effects o f agricultural pollution and the importance o f
environment-friendly practices for the life o f their communities. The first step will be the preparation o f the
campaign, involving the identification and recruiting o f experts, preparation o f materials, etc. The second
step will be an informational campaign aimed to raise the interest o f the target groups, while the third step
will reinforce and consolidate the behaviors suggested and concentrate on replication efforts based on the
results achieved.

National Level.        The Lapusna pilot area would serve as a model for practical development o f
environment-fhendly agncultural practices to be replicated in other similar regions o f the country.           A
broad, nationwide public information campaign will be undertaken to disseminate the benefits of proposed
project activities. One o f the objectives o f the public awareness campaign would be to have relevant
entities buy into the project concept and activities and disseminate beneficial results o f project interventions
through their communication efforts. This is an essential strategy o f the campaign, as the interests and
efforts o f others can naturally extend the impact and overall effectiveness o f the project. Activities under
this sub-component will include:

(i)      public awareness programs on the need for and menu o f environment-friendly agricultural
practices;
(ii)     promoting cooperation with national and local NGOs in order to support the objectives o f the
APCP;
(iii)    broadcasting the "APCP one step forward" advertisement during the launching stage o f the project
at prime-time viewing and listening hours on national TV andradio;
(iv)     purchasing time slots at the national level (printed press, radio and national TV) for short programs
related to APCP objectives, rationale and benefits;
(vi)     producing and launching a special monthly issue at the national level - "NATURE AND
AGRICULTURE".

The efforts at national level will be concentrated on institutions and groups (Government agencies, national
environmental or professional associations, academia etc.) that may influence the replication o f the project
in other areas. Information will be delivered (as a public service or sponsored programs) through the
public broadcasting institutions, including a regular supply o f information to the mass media on the
progress o f the project. This approach will build a general goodwill for the project and its benefits, and will
raise the interest o f potential future clients. The delivery o f the national media campaign will be done by a
specialized P m e d i a Agency to be contractedunder the grant, which in addition to the campaign will also
deliver capacity building programs within the Ministry o f Ecology, Construction and Territorial
Development (MECTD).

Replication Strategy

APCP replication at the national and regional level is a complex process based on identification o f zones,
regions and ecosystems with characteristics similar to the Hincesti and Leova raions as well as interest o f
local communities and authorities to initiate similar projects in their areas. In the second year o f project
implementation, a series o f informational massages related to the project will be intensely disseminated to
generate interest o f the population, NGOs and authorities in the identified ecosystems for replication of
APCP activities. A t the national level, replication would include: (i) demonstrative seminars (PY2-4)
                                                                           three
organized on certain aspects o f APCP (e.g. nutrient reduction as a health factor, ecological manure
management, environment friendly agricultural practices); (ii)      a scientific conference (PY4), which would
synthesize APCP experiences over four years o f implementation and offer recommendations for the project


                                                      -43 -

replication in all regions o f Moldova (participants: local and central authorities, farmers, managers,
researches, NGOs, mass media, etc); (iii)distribution o f informational materials to agricultural NGOs
with branches all over the country (PY 2-4); (iv) demonstration and exhibition o f APCP-funded
environment-hendly agricultural practices at annual international and republican exhibitions inthe field o f
agriculture and environment which will be organized in Chisinau; (v) a regional meeting for the exchange
of experiences between neighboring countries that have similar project; (vi) establishment o f web-site that
would be updated quarterly as well as the production and launch o f a CD-ROM about the Website and
other related informational and educational materials (end o f PY-2).

At the regional level: (i)   connect Moldova APCP to the regional informational network o f similar GEF
projects; (ii) and regularly update a website on the proposed project activities; (iii)produce a
                launch
CD-ROM that provides informational, educational and instructive materials on the project's activities; (iv)
organize a study-tour within the countries of the Black Sea basin that have experience innutrient discharge
reduction and environment-hendly agncultural practices; (v) organize a regional meeting for the exchange
o f experiences with the countries o f the Black Sea basin that have similar projects; and (vi) exchange o f
informational literature, press releases, photo library.

The project would thus provide assistance in conducting regional workshops, field trips, training,
publication in international agnculture and environmental journals and other activities to promote
replication o f project activities in other Black Sea riparian countries. The pilot activity will aim to serve as
a model to be replicated in these countries, which will help contribute to significant reductions in the
nutrient loads entering the Danube River and Black Sea. The organization o f these intemational events will
be a part o f the assignment o f a PUMedia Agency contracted for the purpose.

Project Component 4: Project Management Unit. US$0.62 million
                                                    -

 The existing Project Preparation Unit, already established in the MECTD offices, would evolve into the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and will comprise: a Project Manager, Technical Specialist (who would
also handle project monitoringievaluation), Financial Management Specialist, Procurement Specialist,
Accountant, SecretaryiTranslator and Drivers.         Payment for fiduciary services provided by CAPMU,
including procurement and financial management, will be shared by APCP. The Project Implementation
Unit will be entrusted with responsibilities for ensuring that GOM and World Bank procedures are
followed in project implementation, provide financial management and procurement services, report on
project activities, overall project monitoring against agreed performance indicators, and evaluation o f the
project's impact on beneficiaries. Responsibility for the technical monitoring o f the impact on nutrient load
reduction would be the responsibility o f the Environmental Protection Inspectorate and the Public Health
Directorate.

At the national level, the Project Manager will report to the Minister (or his designated representative),
MECTD; at the local level, the Project Manager will report to the Prefect o f Hincesti who i s the Head o f
the Project Coordination Committee.




                                                      - 44 -

                                  Imple lentationArrangements
        FUNCTION/COMPONENT                         IMPLEMENTIONRESPONSIBILITIES'
1.HincestiandLeova raions:                'IU of APCP in close conjunction with PMU of RISP has
 1.1. Activities under RISP              repared an Operational Manual for APCP Matching Grants for
                                         he applicants o f RISP Special Credit Line. The program will
                                          hncompass a cooperating mechanism between the two projects,
                                         ncluding:
                                          (i)selectingcriteriaforGEFfundsaccession;
                                          (ii)officialdocumentationtocirculate(businessplan,
                                          environmental protectionimitigation plan; etc.);
                                          (iii)implementationprocedures(responsibilityofeachpart
                                          involved);
                                          (iv) monitoring and evaluationmechanism;
                                          (v) reporting procedures (MF, MECTD, MAFI,World Bank)
                                          L representative selecting commission would be established tc
                                          onsider and recommend to PIUthe requests for GEF grants.
  1.2. Manure Management Practices        'IU working with the Hincesti and Leova prefects and County
                                          2ouncil would provide for final design o f waste stores, would
                                         :ontract with commune Mayors'/councils' wishing to install
                                          vaste stores and would handle procurement through national
                                          :ompetitive bidding (stores) and national shopping (building
                                          naterials for household bunkers). The Mayors' office would be
                                          esponsible for overseeing construction o f household livestock
                                          vaste bunkers and for operating the platform once constructed.
                                          louseholderswould provide labor for buildinglivestock waste
                                          lurkers and would be responsible for segregating waste and
                                         lelivering solid livestock waste to the platform.
  1.3. Promotion o f Environment-hendl 'IU would contract an agency to take responsibility for
 Practices                               mplementing the component, contract participating farmers to
                                         mplement demonstrations on their own and other farms, and
                                          :any out procurement and overall d e o f component
                                         )erformance. The Contracted Agency would provide design,
                                          lay-to-day supervision o f implementation and d e o f results at
                                          lemonstration and farm level.
   1.4. Promotion o f Environment-Friend1 Zommunes would contract with PIU to undertake tree planting
 Ago-forestry Practices                   nfragile areas. Technical supervision wouldbe providedbythe
                                          ;tate  Forestry    Service   "Moldsilva".     Planting material
                                          production to be tendered) and a tractor-mounted planting tool
                                          vould be provided by the project. All labor and other costs
                                         vould be provided inkindby beneficiaries.
~~~1.5. Wetlands Restoration              'IU willprovidepartialfinancial assistance from GEF funds to
                                          :over expensive for civil work (e.g. construction o f dams;
                                         :onCrete and wood bridges) as well as procurement o f
                                          iecessary samplings for ecological reconstruction o f the
                                          :xistingforests. GEF funds will be also usedfor purchasing o f
                                         nonitoring equipment and assisting o f public awareness
                                         ictivities (e.g. information boards; workshops;        education


                                                 - 45 -

                                         leaflets; and environmental oriented lectures).

                                         Mayor of Tochile-Raducani, will provide the labor and will
                                         assist PIU in getting the necessary legal arrangements for
                                         program implementation, including adoption o f local regulation
                                         o f grazing, public access to the area, etc. The Mayoralty will
                                         also mobilize its available means for cleaning up o f the area as
                                         well as rehabilitation o f roads and other access facilities.

                                         The ecological reconstruction o f forests and their maintenance
                                         will be technically supervised by the State Forestry Service
                                         "Moldsilva".
1.6. Monitoring o f Soil and Water QualityPIU will provide equipment for strengthening the capacity o f
and Environmental Impacts                Hydrometeorology Service and Institute of Soil for water and
                                         soil quality monitoring.
                                         The laboratories of Hydrometeorology Service will deal with
                                         water and sediment sampling and analysis. The soil sampling
                                         and analysis will be performed by the Institute of Soil. These
                                         institutions will be contracted following the national procedures
                                         andinfull compliance with World Bank's rules.

                                         The State Ecological Inspectorate (Lapusna Territorial
                                         Ecological Agency) will be involved in samples collection and
                                         their transportation to the laboratories. Some periodical
                                         monitoring could be done by the laboratories o f local
                                         environmental protection agency as well as Judet F'ublic Health
                                         Department as necessary.

                                         The Ministry of Health would be involved in monitoring
                                         program through the Department for Preventive Medicine as
                                         required.
2. Strengthening National Policy &Designated units inMECTD and MAFI.
Regulatory Capacity
3. Public Awareness        Activities& PIUwould contract NGOto implement the program.
Replication Strategy




                                                  - 46 -

                                             Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs
                   MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT

                                                                                                  Local               Foreign                   Total
~~




                         Project Cost By Component                                             US $million         US $million              US $million
Promotion of mitigation measures for reducing nutrient loads in                                     5.97                  2.84                     8.81
water bodies
National Level Strengthening o f Policy and Regulatory Capacity                                     0.02                  0.06                     0.08
Public Awareness, Capacity Building and Replication Strategy                                        0.14                  0.18                     0.32
Project Management Unit                                                                             0.45                  0.10                     0.55
Total Baseline Cost                                                                                 6.58                  3.18                     9.76
  Physical Contingencies                                                                            0.18                  0.01                     0.19
  Price Contingencies                                                                               n 57
                                                                                                    -.-.                  n- 33                    n-.79
                                                                                                                                                       .
                                                                                                                                                         ~



                                           Total Project Costs1                                     7.33                  3.41                    10.74
                                   Total Financina Reauired                                         7.33                  3.41                    10.74

                                                                                                   Local              Foreign                    Total
                           Project Cost By Category                                            US $million          US $million             US $million
Goods                                                                                                 1.07                    0.39                       1.46
Works                                                                                                 0.82                     0.23                      1.05
RlSP     - grants                                                                                     3.30                    2.20                      5.50
Training                                                                                              0.20                     0.06                     0.26
Technical Assistance                                                                                  0.37                     0.28                     0.65
Operating Costs                                                                                       0.82                     0.02                     0.84
 Physical Contingencies                                                                               0.18                     0.01                     0.19
 Price Contingencies                                                                                  0.57                     0.22                     0.79
                                                          Total Project Costs'                        7.33                     3.41                    10.74
                                                 Total Financing Required                             7.33                     3.41                    10.74

   I
    Identifiable taxes and duties are 0.68 (US$m)and the total project cost. net oftaxes, is 10.06(CSSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 39.06% of
   total project cost net of taxes.




                                                                      - 4 7 -

                                   Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis
              MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL POLLUTIONCONTROL PROJECT

Overview.

The global environmental objective o f the GEF Alternative is to protect the quality o f the Black Sea by
reducing the discharge o f nutrients (nitrogen and phosphorous) and other agncultural pollutants from the
Lapusna tributary catchment area situated in the Lower Pmt River basin, which flows into the Danube.
The proposed project aims to significantly increase the adoption o f environmentally-fnendly agricultural
practices and promote ecologically sustainable land use in the project area and thereby reduce pollution
from agricultural sources including erosion in the Lapusna k v e r basin and hence into to the Danube and
the Black Sea. Towards this end, the project will:


I        Promote the adoption o f environmentally-friendlyagncultural practices by individual farmers and
farmers' associations in eleven communes o fthe Hincesti and Leova raions (counties).
I        Convert a floodplain inTochile-Raducani commune between the Lapusna and Prut Rivers back to
its former wetland status.
         Protect the fragile soils including riparian areas through plantingo fperennials and grasses.
I        Strengthen national policy and local regulatory capacity.
D        Promote a broadpublic awareness campaign to disseminate the benefits o f project activities.
I        Promote regional collaboration.

Thus, the GEF funding will remove institutional, financial, market and knowledge barriers, which currently
act as disincentives to the adoption o f environmentally-friendly agricultural practices, protect fragile
riparian, pasture and forest areas and rejuvenate a wetland. The GEF Alternative intends to achieve this at
a total incremental cost o f US$4.95 million.

Context and DevelopmentGoals.

During the past few decades, the Black Sea has suffered severe environmental damage, mainly due to
coastal erosion, eutrophication, insufficiently treated sewage, introduction o f exotic species, and inadequate
resource management, all o f which led to a decline o f its biological diversity, loss o f habitat and long-term
ecological changes. There is broad agreement that eutrophication, caused by an increase in nutrient flux
down the major rivers inthe late 1960s, through poor management o f animal waste and a marked increase
inmineralfertilizer and chemical use, is the most serious problems facing Danube River and the Black Sea
over the medium to long-term. The effect o f eutrophication on the north-westem shelf o f the Black Sea i s
generally recognized as disastrous and is primarily related to nutrient loads carried by Danube River. A
GEF Partnership on Black Sea and Danube Basin was established inMay 2001 to take coordinated action
for the rehabilitation o f the Danubemlack Sea environment. The Partnership i s led by the GEF and its
implementingagencies, the World Bank, UNDP and UNEP and funded with a U S 9 5 million GEF grant
over several tranches. The WB executed US$70million Investment Fund for Nutrient Reduction in the
Danube BasinMack Sea is financing investments to improve agricultural practices, wastewater treatment
and wetland restoration as well as policy and legal revisions and capacity building for enhancing
monitoring and enforcement.

Nutrient flow from the Danube River.            The Black Sea Environmental Programme (BSEP) Studies
revealed that 58% o f the total dissolved nitrogen and 66 % o f the total dissolved phosphorous flowing into
the Black Sea come from the Danube basin. More than half o f all nutrient loads into the Danube River



                                                      - 48 -

originate from agnculture, about one fourth from private households and about 10 - 13 % from industry.
The most important pathways into the Danube basin for phosphorous are direct discharges (33% o f the
total flow, predominantly from agriculture), erosiodrunoff (3 1YO,mainly agriculture) and sewage treatment
plant effluents (30%). Nitrogen loads come from: direct discharges (35%),          erosiodrunoff and sewage
treatment plant effluents inmore or less equal shares, again agriculture being the source for more than half
the total nitrogen run-off inmanycountries.

Nutrient flow from Moldova. The Trans-boundary Diagnostic Analysis carried out on the basis o f a
pollution source inventory for the BSEP reveals that Moldova only plays a modest role in nutrient
discharge (about 2%) into the Black Sea. Principally, this is because its surface area is only 1.6% o f the
`Danube River' countries. However, agriculture inMoldova contributes significantly to Nand P emission,
accounting for about 90% o f its total discharge. In addition, because much agriculture is undertaken on
hilly land with poor soil conservation techniques, erosion is significant with some o f the topsoil being
carried by the river system into the delta area.

Agriculture is the mainstay o f the Moldova's economy, primarilydue to its fertile soils. Seventy percent o f
the land is under agnculture o f which 81% are arable, 10% vineyards and orchards and 9% pastures.
Groundwater polluted with nitrates and microbial organisms from agnculture has social significance from
the point o f view o f drinkingwater supply for rural settlements in Moldova. Also, low levels o f sanitation
and lack o f hygiene are increasing the transmission o f enteric germs, a principal cause of bowel diseases
including acute diarrhoeic disease (ADD).

Following the political and social upheaval caused by the transition to a market economy, and the
accompanying economic decline in the region, riparian countries have reduced the overall discharge o f
nutrients into the Danube River and the Black Sea. Largely because o f this, and also because o f the
success o f nutrient load reduction programmes, particularly in the upper Danube countries, there has been
a partial recovery o f coastal ecosystems. Nevertheless, the overall discharge o f nutrients i s still higher than
what it was in the 1960s. The economic downturn in the coastal countries is temporary; this offers a
window o f opportunity for actions aimed at improving the marine ecosystems and avoiding the return to the
previous situation o f chronic eutrophication.

Government Strategy. The project will assist Moldova inmeeting its international commitments to reduce
nutrient loads to the Danube River and the Black Sea. Moldova has assumed its international obligations
under the Convention on Co-operation or the Protection and Sustainable Use o f the Danube River (Sofia
1994). It is signature to the Statement on the Lower Danube Green Comdor (Bucharest 2000), is a
member o f the Danube Commission for the Protection o f the Danube River and is moving towards
compliance with the European Union Directives. In addition, as a member, Moldova i s committed to the
overall goals o f the joint Danube-Black Sea Working Party to reduce nutrient and hazardous substances to
such levels necessary to permit the Black Sea eco-system recovery to similar conditions as those observed
inthe 1960s.

Agncultural pollution control, especially nutrient run-off into the Danube and Black Sea has been identified
as a Government priority as well as being an essential part o f the Black Sea and Danube River Basin
Strategic Action Plans. Wetland restoration inproximity to the Danube River has been identified as one o f
the most effective ways to reduce nutrient loads into the Danube and Black Sea. The project's selected site
for promoting ecologically sustainable land use, the Tochile-Raducani floodplain will demonstrate the
effectiveness o f such an initiative: this is also in line with the governments strategy o f wetland ecosystem
protection. In addition, the project will protect riparian areas and fragile lands through planting o f trees,
shrubs and grasses and the improved management o f pastures and forests. The Ministry o f Ecology,


                                                        - 49 -

Construction and Territorial Development (MECTD) is in the process o f harmonizing the environmental
legislation with that o f the EU and is paying particular attention to the Nitrates Directive which is one o f
the most important Directives under the EU accession process. On-farm environmental management is an
integral part o f the Government's overall strategy for the agricultural sector, which is aimed at creating
enabling conditions to fully realize the sector's yet unfulfilled potential. A key part o f the government's
overall strategy for agriculture is the development o fpost-privatisation agricultural support services as well
as on-farm environmental management aimed at creating enabling circumstances to realize fully the
sector's potential. To this end, MECTD and the Ministry o f Agriculture and Food Industries (MAFI)
support the Agricultural Pollution Control Project (APCP) as strongly complementing the Rural Investment
Services Project (RISP). The combined program o f grants through APCP and credits through RISP will
allow the government to mainstream environmental and public health considerations into the agricultural
sector andthe synergy o f such an approach will bringgreater benefits locally, regionally and globally.

Baseline Scenario.

The baseline scenario includes activities that will promote Moldova's agncultural sector without GEF
support.   The Government's agricultural strategy has significant implications for the organization and
management o f an improved agricultural sector. Farmers and processing industries have witnessed a sharp
decline in viability since privatization through the reduction o f inputs, especially fertilizers and machinery.
However, it is essential that if they are going to compete on the world market, farmers must have access to
appropriate knowledge, shlls and technologies. Only then will Moldova's agriculture be competitive and
efficient. However, as only a few o f the new farm owners have management slulls, and even fewer have
access to capital, measures are included under the on-going Bank's Rural Investment Services Project
(RISP) to strengthen the extension and training system. RISP will make the entities delivering these
services more responsive to the needs o f farmers, including access to information and cost effective
agricultural technologies and practices, which, while increasing productivity, promote conservation and
sustainable use o f the country's natural resource base. However, this could encourage non-point source
pollution through increased agricultural productivity, contributing additional nutrients loads into the Black
Sea that may lead to increased eutrophication and the ecological damage and economic losses associated
with this process. The long-term implication will be continued degradation o f a globally significant
intemational water body and its associated bio-diversity in the shared coastal and marine environment o f
the Black Sea. The Baseline Scenario does not include an effective mechanism to address this issue even
though on paper it i s the policy o f govemment.

The GEF Alternative would go beyond the Baseline Scenario by allowing the project to establish a
mechanism for coordinating the approach, funding and support o f activities designed to reduce non-point
source pollution from agriculture and advise on the reduction o f point source pollution from
agro-industries. This alternative while promoting increased productivity will do so without the concurrent
increase o f pollution into ground and surface water by promoting environmentally friendly practices.

Costs. The total cost o f the project i s US$10.74 million. The total expenditure under the Baseline Scenario
i s estimated at US$5.79 million. The Incremental Costs are estimated to be USS4.95 million.

GlobalEnvironmentalObjective.

The global environmental objective o f the project i s to promote the adoption o f environmentally-friendly
on-farm agricultural practices to reduce nutrient loads entering the Black Sea. The dissemination and
outreach features o f the project will contribute to its replicability. The role o f the GEF inthis project i s to
reduce farmers' perceived risks in adopting environmentally-friendly agricultural practices and remove


                                                      - 50 -

barriers for their adoption. The project will demonstrate that farmers who adopt these measures are able to
maximize outputs and minimize negative environment impacts, while improving the health o f the Black Sea
ecosystem. In addition a wetland will be rejuvenated and fragile riparian systems, pastures and forests will
be protected and better managed for the benefit o f the environment and to the well-being o f the people.
This should lead to a sustainable increase in economic activities such as increase agricultural output,
improve fishing and tourism in the wetland and surrounding areas and to a healthier and wealthier
population. A t the same time, the project should enhance biodiversity and facilitate carbon sequestration.
But above all, the activities promotedunder the GEF Altemative will facilitate the sharing of experiences
for feasible and affordable solutions to deal with point and non-point sources o f pollution to surface and
ground water and hence to intemational water bodies from ago-industries and agriculture.

Scope. Above and beyond the Baseline Scenario, the GEF Altemative will provide the means to meet the
proposed project's goals. Specifically, the project will:


I        Install improved manure storage facilities andequipment for manure collection, storage and
application.
I        Provide manure spreaders/applicators for efficient and cost-effective use o f manure on croplands,
together withjudicious use o f mineral fertilizers.
I        Conduct on-farm trials and demonstrations to promote the use o f improved sustainable agricultural
practices, including reduced tillage, better chemical management systems, terracing, contour ploughing and
buffer strips for water quality benefits.
I        Develop a specific land use management plan for the integrated management o f the reopened
Tochile-Raducani wetland between the Lapusna and Prut Rivers.
I        Strengthen national policy and regulatory capacity to address agricultural pollution control.
I        Promote regional collaboration.

I        Undertake a broadpublic awareness campaign to disseminate benefits o f the project activities.

Benefits.

Domestic and International BeneJts.        The GEF Altemative would go beyond the Baseline Scenario by
allowing the project to promote environmentally friendly agricultural and rural practices. These will reduce
non-point (and point) pollution sources to the Black Sea as well improving groundwater, biodiversity and
carbon sequestration all o f which have strong benefits for the global climate and human health. Given the
country's precarious budgetary situation, the government can ill-afford to spend scarce funds as financial
incentives to farmers to reduce nutrient loads for regional and global gains. The GEF funds will allow
additional investments in sustainable farm management practices and manure storage etc. in the selected
project area o f Lapusna Judet that will have an impact on the Black Sea and provide willing farmers with
sustainable altemate technologies.      Under the GEF Alternative, the promotion o f improved sustainable
agricultural practices and a decrease o f manure leaching into water systems will provide greater
environmental benefits and augment the demonstration potential o f the exercise. I t should also improve
farm profitability. The GEF Alternative will promote a public awareness program to effectively explain
the benefits o f improved environmental practices at farm level. I t will also allow the development o f a
strategy for project replication within Moldova and internationally.

The proposed project is a demonstration activity in the South-westem part o f Moldova, close to the
Romania border. The eleven communes in the project area have about 21,360 ha of arable land out o f a
total area o f 41,600 ha. It has a total population in 2000 o f 43,230 in 14,740 households. The project will
support activities for nutrient reduction and monitoring in 16 villages, as well as to reopen
Tochile-Raducani wetland between the Lapusna and Prut Rivers. This wetland o f about 130 ha comprises


                                                     - 51 -

a former floodplain area, drained and transformed into agricultural land inthe late sixties. The plants have
the capacity to absorb minerals from the water and the flora and fauna could reduce faecal and colloidal
substances.

Through improved farming practices, there will be an annual saving o f dissolved nutrients flowing into the
Black Sea. It i s assumed that in the project area, about 50,000 t o f wet manure out o f an estimated current
annual production of 86,000 t will be collected inplatforms through manure management inplace o f being
dumpedby the road and riverside. This 50,000 t contains an estimated 280 t ofNand 70 t P and it will be
judiciously spread on about 5,000 ha o f agricultural land (out o f 21,400 ha). In addition the correct
dosages o f chemical fertilizers will be applied to the various annual and perennial crops. Thus, once the
project is fully operational up to 280 t o f Nand 70 t P could be taken up by plants and saved from being
flushed into the river systems and hence into the Black Sea. Also, the plants will absorb most chemical
fertilizers. Even if some o f this N & P from manure and mineral fertilizer finds its way into the river
system, the Tochile-Raducani the flora and fauna o f the wetland has the capacity to absorb up to 100 kg N
and 10 kg P per hectare each year. More detailed assessment will be undertaken in quantifying accrued
environmental (social and economic) benefits during project implementation (and beyond).                Such
quantifiable benefits include the reduction o f minerals and other pollutants in surface and ground water,
erosion reduction, increase inbiodiversity and perhaps additional carbon sequestration.

Incremental Costs.
The difference between the cost o f the Baseline Scenario o f US$5.79 million and the cost of the GEF
Altemative o f US$10.74 million i s US$4.95 million. This amount represents the incremental cost o f
achieving the global environmental benefits o f reduced degradation o f local and international waters,
decreased erosion, more appropriate landuse and increased biodiversity.

                                         IncrementalCost Matrix

Component                   cost                      DomesticBenefit              Global Benefits
                            Category
 1.Promotion o f                                      Improved local capacity Reduced nutrient loads
Mitigation Measures for     Baseline                  and knowledge to         into the Black Sea
Reducing NutrientLoads                                respond to the need for
inWater Bodies                                        environmentally sound   Protection o f natural
- RISP-supported                                      agricultural practices  habitat.
activities
- Promotion of Improved                               Improved land-use        Increased biodiversity
Watershed Management                                  practices and water
Practices (manure                                     quality.
management; promotion
o f environmentally                                   Reduced soil erosion.
friendly agricultural
practices; shrub and                                  Increasedprofitability
tree-planting; wetland                                of agriculture
restoration; monitoring                               production.
soil and water quality
                                                      Increased rural
                                                      incomes.
                          , With GEF         >.66
                            Incremental      1.19
2. Strengthening National                             Strengthened policy     Reduced nutrient loads



                                                    - 52 -

Policy, Regulatory         Baseline        0.02       and structural           due to compliance with
Enforcement and                                        framework for           regulatory and
National Capacity                                      agricultural practices  enforcement measures
                                                       designed to reduce
                                                      nutrient loads to Black
                                                       Sea
                           With GEF        0.09
                           Incremental     0.07
3. Public Awareness and                                Increasedpotential to   Highpotential to
Replication Strategy       Baseline        0.09       replicate project        replicate project
                                                       activities in similar   activities outside
                                                       areas o f Moldova       Moldova, in other Black
                                                                               Sea, Danube river and
                                                                               Baltic Sea riparian
                                                                               countries
                           With GEF        0.37
                           Incremental     0.28
4. Project Management n                                Increased capacity for
Unit                       Baseline        0.20        successful project
                                                      management and
                                                       implementation
                                                                              I
                           With GEF        0.62
                           Incremental     0.42
Total                      Baseline        5.79
                           With GEF        10.74
                           Incremental 4.95

The proposedproject is closely linked with the US$25.0 million Rural Investment and Services Project and
permitsactivities under this project to result intrans-boundary as well as local benefits.




                                                    - 53 -

                                     Annex 5: Financial Summary
                 MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
                                          Years Ending

                           I                          IMPLEMENTATIONPERIOD
                           I  Year1    I Year2   1  Year3   I Year4    1 Year5   1 Year6   1 Year 7
Total Financing
Required
 Project Costs
  Investment Costs                 1.6       2.0         2.1      2.4        1.6       0.0      0.0
  Recurrent Costs                  0.2       0.2         0.2      0.2        0.2       0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs                1.8       2.2         2.3      2.6        1.8       0.0      0.0
Total Financina                    1.8       2.2         2.3      2.6        1.8       0.0      0.0
Financing
   IBRDllDA                        0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
   Government                      0.3       0.3         0.2      0.2        0.1      0.0        0.0
       Central                     0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
       Provincial                  0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
   Co-financiersGEF                0.5       1.o         1.2      1.3        1.o      0.0        0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries            0.1       0.2         0.2      0.1        0.1      0.0        0.0
RlSP                               0.9       0.7         0.7      1.o        0.6                 0.0
Total Project Financing            1.8       2.2         2.3      2.6        1.8      0.0        0.0
Mainassumptions:
Figuresmay slightlydiffer due to rounding




                                                - 54 -

                              Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
              MOLDOVA: AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT

Procurement

A. ProcurementGuidelines

The procurement o f goods andworks financed the World Bank shall be done inaccordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, (issued in January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting Services and Training
contracts will be awarded in accordance with the provisions o f the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, (issued in January o f 1997 and revised in
September 1997, in January, 1999 and in May 2002).

 The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents and Standard Requests for Proposals etc. will be used. A
General ProcurementNotice (GPN) will be published inthe UNDevelopment Business inJanuary 2004.

B.Implementation

The Ministryo f Ecology, Construction and Temtorial Development (MECTD)and Ministryo f Agriculture
and Food Industries(MAFI) would be the main agencies responsible for project implementation. (MECTD)
has been designated by the Ministry o f Finance as the line ministry responsible for management o f the
project. These ministries will be the implementing agencies and will manage the project through Project
Management Unit (PMU) with a cross support on fiduciary issues provided by already existing
Consolidated Agncultural Projects' Management Unit (CAPMU) which is experienced with the Bank's
requirements.

The P M U would collect and record information regardmg procurement administration, and would send
quarterly reports based on this information to the Bank. These reports would indicate:

(i) statusofprocurement
(ii)     an updatedprocurement plan; and
(iii)    compliance with aggregate limits on specified procurement methods.

CAPMU'S existing computerized procurement monitoring system will be expanded for tracking
procurement actions as well as to prepare periodic progress reports.

C. ProcurementArrangements

The project includes procurement o f the following civil works, goods and services


0        Civil works for manure management structures, including manure pits for private farms and
communes' manure platforms that will be scattered in terms o f location and timing, small structures for
wetlands restoration, and installation o f piezometers for monitoring water quality;
0        Goods    will    include    agricultural  machinery,    field    and  laboratory  equipment     for
testing/demonstration o f new practices as well as monitoring their impact on the environment, vehicles, and
various types o f agricultural and forestry inputs and planting materials;
0        Consulting services and training will include several contracts with agencies to provide



                                                     - 55 -

implementation services for new practices and subsequent monitoring o f impact, for individual local and
intemational consultants to provide specific techmcal advise, for training programs and for monitoring
overall project impact.

The following procurement arrangements will apply for the procurement o f goods, works and services:

Procurement of Civil Works:

International Competitive Bidding (ICB): Works contracts estimated to cost USS200,OOO each or more
shall be procured through I C B inaccordance with the Guidelines.

National Competitive Bidding (NCB): The contracts for procurement o f construction works estimated to
cost less than USS200,OOO equivalent per contract but more than USS50,000, would be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 3.3 o f the Guidelines. Rehabilitation and
construction works will be grouped into regional lots as much as possible considering the economies o f
scale.

Minor Works: Civil Works estimated to cost less than 550,000 equivalent per contract may be procured
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis o f quotations obtained from three (3) qualified
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description
o f the works or services, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form o f
agreement acceptable to the Bank, andrelevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and
resources to complete the contract successfully.

Procurement of Goods:

International Competitive Bidding (ICB): Goods and equipment estimated to cost USS100,OOO each or
more shall be procured through I C B inaccordance with the Guidelines.

International Shopping (IS) : Readily available off-the-shelf goods and equipment estimated to cost less
than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis o f
intemational shopping procedures inaccordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 o f the Guidelines.

National Shopping (NS) : Locally available off-the-shelf goods and equipment estimated to cost less than
USS50,OOO equivalent per contract may be awarded on the basis o f national shopping procedures in
accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 o f the Guidelines. Items covered by N S procedures would include
office fimiture, office equipment, minor supplies and vehicles as well as small field and laboratory
equipment.

Procurement of Consultants' Services and Training:

Quality- and Cost-based Selection (QCBS) :Consultant services shall be procured under contracts awarded
inaccordance with the provisions of the Bank's Consultant Guidelines. Assignments estimated to cost less
than USS100,OOO equivalent can be procured based on shortlists comprising entirely national firms.

Least Cost Selection (LCS): Auditing services and project monitoring estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions o f
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 o f the Consultant Guidelines.


                                                   - 56 -

Selection based on Consultants Qualzjkations (CQ): Contracts for consulting services, such as
preparation o f management plans, assistance for soil and water monitoring, etc., estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured using selection based on consultants' qualifications in
accordance with paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 o f the Guidelines.

Individual Consultants: Services o f individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in
paragraph 5.1 o f the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions o f paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 o fthe Consultant Guidelines. For individual consultants to be
hired for more than six months duration, the positions will be advertised for expressions o f interest in
international and/or national media depending on the expertise required and selection will be based on
comparison o f those expressing interest.

Single Source Selection (SS): The consulting services which: (i)      would be a natural continuation o f work
carried out by the firm; (ii)  must be selected rapidly due to an emergency need, (iii) an exceptional
                                                                                            has
nature where only one firm is qualified or has experience o f exceptional worth for the assignment, (iv) is
estimated to cost less than USS50,OOO equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be
procured in accordance with the provisions o fparagraph 3.8 through 3.11o f the Consultant Guidelines.

Procurements under Sub-grants:

Commercial Practices: Works and goods required for implementation of the environmental mitigation
sub-grants to be financed in conjunction with the RISP credit line supported investments and estimated to
cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured at competitive prices in accordance with
commercial practices o f the respective beneficiaries, per paragraph 3.12 o f the Guidelines. Provided that
such practices involve obtaining quotations from more than one supplier or contractor; and with due
account being taken, in addition to prices, o f other relevant factors such as delivery and efficiency and
reliability thereof and availability o f maintenance and spare parts. Sub-borrowers shall use the World
Bank's standard and sample bidding documents, evaluation reports, contracts etc., wherever possible, with
the necessary modifications agreed with the PMU. Works and goods estimated to cost US$50,000 or more
per contract shall be procured in accordance with the procurement procedures set forth above for civil
works and for goods and equipment, in accordance with the cost o f the contract.

Procurementfrom Government-Owned Agencies:

Under the scope o f this project, some services and agricultural inputs will be procured from
govemment-owned agencies, because o f the following reasons: a) lack o f private sector inthese fields inthe
country, b) the estimated cost o f these contracts are relatively small and may not attract foreign companies
or institutions, c) the nature o f services such as water quality monitoring or supply o f seedlings require the
well establishment o f the service providers at the regional and local level, in order words any centrally
located institution can not perform the required services. Therefore, the below named government-owned
agencies will be directly contracted for the implementation o f components for promotion o f environmentally
friendly practices, shrub and tree planting, wetland rehabilitation and monitoring the impact o f these
measures on water and soil quality.

Moldsilva (State Forestry Services) i s the central authority responsible for the forestry in Moldova and
directly subordinated to the Govemment. I t is the only Moldovan institution with relevant capacity for
afforestation works and it consists o f 15 state forestry enterprises, which cover 69 forest districts and 1068
forest cantons. Moldsilva will be responsible to carry out tree planting program and it will supply seedlings


                                                      - 57 -

for the project activities estimated to cost about $130,000. The price quotations will be collected from
number o f district nurseries located in the vicinity o f the project area and seedlings will be procured from
the lowest priced nursery meeting the requirements.

Soil Science Institute is a state entity with number o f technically qualified researchers with many
specialized laboratories and research stations at the district level. It is subordinated to the Ministry o f
Agriculture, but operating on a self financing basis. It has its own laboratory and it i s the only institution
which has experience and capacity in conducting various soil analysis including soiYmanure nutrient
content, monitoring soil quality, measuring nutrient loss and soil erosion which are the key activities under
the implementation o f improved watershed management practices and its monitoring. The cost o f its
services to be awarded under direct contracting procedures will be about $80,000.

Hydrometeoroloq Service Center is a central agency operating as a department under the Ministry o f
Ecology, Construction and Temtorial Development (MECTD) and it i s responsible for the monitoring o f
all ecosystem medias in order to assess their general status and trends in water quality and quantity. The
laboratories o f Hydrometeorology Service Center will carry out water quality monitoring and
meteorological data collection and cost o f these services will be about $125,000, which will be awarded
underdirect contracting procedures.

For all o f the these above mentioned agencies, annual service/supply contracts will be signed and will be
renewed every year upon satisfactory performance.

Training, Workshops and Study Tour Expenditure:

The P M U shall prepare a detailed training program for every six months in consultation with the
implementing agencies. The training program shall contain time schedules for workshops, seminars, study
tours and travels etc., including detailed information on the content, itinerary, location, number o f
beneficiaries, cost estimates for each activity etc. These training programs shall be submitted to the Bank
for review and clearance before implementation. After the Bank's clearance the training, workshops and
study tours shall be carried inaccordance with the agreed procedures without requiring Bank's clearance o f
each sub-component o f the training program. The status o f the training program will be included as part o f
progress reports and will be updatedandor modified as agreed with the Bank.

Incremental Operating Costs:

The operating costs for AF'CP covering staff salaries (excluding Government employees), staff travel costs,
supplies, utilities, and equipment maintenance etc. would be procured on the basis o f annual budgets to be
agreed with the World Bank.
 Procurement methods (Table A)




                                                     - 58 -

                                               Procurement Method'
    Expenditure Category            ICB          NCB          Othe:    N.B.F.  Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00          1.oo        0.04      0.04      1.08
                                  (0.00)         (0.72)       (0.03)   (0.00)   (0.75)
2. Goods                            0.58          0.00        0.47      0.37      1.42
                                  (0.46)         (0.00)       (0.38)   (0.00)   (0.84)
3. Services                         0.00          0.00         1S O     0.00      1.50
and Training                       (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.20)   (0.00)   (1.20)
4. Grants to support credit line    0.00          0.00        6.00      0.00      6.00
under RlSP
                                   (0.00)        (0.00)       (2.00)   (0.00)   (2.00)
5. Operating Costs                  0.00          0.00        0.35      0.40      0.75
                                   (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.20)   (0.00)    (0.20)
   Total                            0.58          1.oo         8.36     0.81     10.75
                                   (0.46)        (0.72)       (3.81)   (0.00)    (4.99)




                                          - 59 -

                    Table A I : Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                     (US$ million equivalent)

                                                    Selection Method
  Consultant Services
Expenditure Category    QCBS       QBS      SFB       LCS      CQ      Other  N.B.F. Total cos(
A. Firms                 0.30      0.00     0.00      0.03     0.64    0.20   0.00      1.17
                        (0.25)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.02)   (0.51)   (0.16) (0.00)  (0.94)
B. Individuals           0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    0.40   0.00     0.40
                        (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.35) (0.00)  (0.35)
                  Total  0.30      0.00     0.00      0.03    0.64     0.60   0.00      1.57
                        (0.25)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.02)   (0.5 1)  (0.51) (0.00)  (1.29)




                                              - 60 -

 Prior review thresholds (Table B)
D. ProcurementReview.

Prior Review: The following procurement action and documentation would be subject to Prior Review by
the World Bank:

Goods, Works and Technical Services: Prior review o f all Intemational Competitive Bidding, f r s t
National Competitive Biddingand first Minor Works contracts for works, first Intemational Shopping, and
first National Shopping contracts for goods and technical services.

Consulting Service: With regard to consultant services and training, prior Bankreview will be required for
all Terms o f Reference, irrespective o f contract value.      For contracts with firms estimated to cost
US$50,000 or more and for contracts with individuals estimated to cost US$25,000 or more, the
qualifications, experience, terms o f reference and terms o f employment shall be fbmished to the Bank for
its review and approval prior to contract signature.

Post Review: Contracts not subject to Bank's prior review will be reviewed ex-post by Bank supervision
missions on sampling basis, i.e. 1 out o f every 5 contracts. The frequency of procurement supervision
should be every twelve months.

                  Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'




12.                                                                  I C B                        31583
    Goods                    I           >loo
                                       <50-<100           I            IS              I          1/100
                                          <50                         N S                          1/50
 3. Services                             >200
                                         <loo                       QCBS                          11300
                                                                     LCS                           1/30
                                          <50                         CQ                           1/50
                                          <25                      Individual                     2/50

                 Total value of contracts subject to prior review: USS1,413
                          Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:          Average
       Frequency of procurement supervisionmissions proposed:           One every six months
                                                                        (includes special procurement supervision for
                                                                        post-reviewlaudits)
 E. ProcurementMonitoringand Reporting

The PMU will keep a complete and up-to-date record o f all procurement documentation and relevant
correspondence inits files, which will be reviewedby the Bank staff during supervision missions. The
Procurement Plan for the project shall be prepared by the P M U and furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval in accordance with the provisions o f the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. The Procurement
Plan, which indicates the procurement arrangements, contract packaging, applicable procurement method,



                                                     -61 -

scheduling o f procurement process, estimated cost etc, will be updated annually by the PMU. All
procurements shall be undertaken in accordance with the Procurement Plan. Monitoring reports on
procurement progress will be submittedas part o f progress reports on program implementation. The report
shall include all information related with the completed, on-going and planned contracts.

F.Action Planto Buildup Agencies Capacity

The Consolidated Agncultural Projects Management Unit (CAPMU) was created in 1999 as the result o f
the consolidation o f the project implementation units incharge o f the prior agncultural projects. CAPMU is
currently in charge o f managing Rural Investment Services Project in the agnculture sector, and will be
managing Youth Inclusion Project after its effectiveness. CAPMU will also started to work for the
preparation o f APCP and will be responsible for its management. CAPMU has developed considerable
experience inthe procurement o f works, goods and services in accordance with Bank procedures.

The following actions needto be taken inthe given order to alleviate the risks for poor implementation o f
procurement under the project:

- The procurement file containing up to date procurement documents (guidelines, manuals, templates o f
procurement notices, standard bidding documents for procurement o f goods and works, standard request
for proposal documents for consultants services, evaluation report formats, regional and simplified
procurement documents etc.) shall be prepared by the Bank and provided to PMU at the time o f Project
Launch Workshop. The P M U is recommended to visit the Bank's web-site frequently to ensure using the
most updatedprocurement documents.

- CAPMU will provide assurance that the procurement specialist will devote at least 30% of his time for
APCP procurement activities, especially at the early stages o f the project.

- The work load o fprocurement specialist shall be assessedfor a period of 6 months after the effectiveness
o f the project. In case o f shortcomings, two options will be considered i)a new hll-time procurement
specialist will be hiredwho will be worlung solely for APCP, or ii)a fill-time procurement assistant will be
hired to assist the part-time procurement specialist.

The procurement specialist o f CAPMU, had some training on Bank's procurement procedures given by
ILO in Turin. However, he has a limited experience on procurement o f civil works contracts. To gain
knowledge on procurement o f civil works project, he will attend related procurement courses provided by
ILO inTurin.

- Bank procurement specialist will be a member o f the project team throughout the project cycle. During
project implementation, the Bank procurement specialist should be involved in the supervision missions.




                                                     - 62 -

OverallProcurementRiskAssessment

  Section 1:Capacity ofthe ImplementingAgency inProcurementandTechnicalAssistance
 requirements
 The capacity o f the implementingagency to conduct procurements has been assessed. The overall
procurementassessmenti s high-risk.The following actionplan is recommended as a result of this
 assessment.a) CAPMU will provide assurancethat the procurement specialist will devote at least
  30% o f h i s time for APCP procurement activities, especially at the early stages of the project. b)
 The work load o fprocurement specialist shall be assessedfor aperiod of 6 months after the
 effectiveness o f the project. Incase o f shortcomings, two options will be considered i)a new
 full-time procurement specialist will be hiredwho will be working solely for APCP, or ii)a
 full-time procurement assistant will be hiredto assist the part-time procurement specialist. c) The
procurement specialist, who is currently working in CAPMU, had some training on Bank's
procurementprocedures given by ILO in Turin. To gain knowledge on procurement of works
project, he will attend procurementtrainings providedby ILO inTurin for procurement o f works.
 Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Are the biddingdocuments for the
  Strategy Paper status: The CPAR i s finalized in June 2003           procurement actions o f the first year ready by
                                                                       negotiations              YES        N O X
  Section2: Training, Informationand DevelopmentonProcurement
 Estimated date o f     IEstimated date of      ]Indicate if there is  \Domestic Preference ]Domestic Preference
 Project Launch          Publication o f General procurement subject to for Goods:            for Works, if
 Workshop:               Procurement Notice:     mandatory SPN in      Yes X        N o       applicable.
 MayIJune2004            5/15/2004               Development Business                         Yes        NoX
                                                lYes  x       NO
 Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: Procurement implementationprogress will
 be monitored throughprogress reports and supervision missions. Each supervisionmissionwill
 include the project procurement specialist for updating the procurement plan and conducting post
 review.
 Co-financing: None
  Section3: Procurement Staffing
 Indicate name o f Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the
 Project:
  ElmasArisoy (ECSPS)
 Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: There is no procurement specialist in the
 Country Office. Procurement supervision shall be handled by HQbased PAS.


~~
 1\Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment o f Agency's Capacity to Implement
  Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.




                                                        - 63 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements
                 MOLDOVA:AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT

FinancialManagement
1. Summaryofthe FinancialManagementAssessment

The financial management arrangements within the CAPMU are assessed as acceptable to the Bank.

CAPMUhas an extensive experience inthe WB project implementation andit has well-developed fiduciary
functions that have been assessed as satisfactory during preparation for implementation o f other projects.
CAPMU'sprevious and current project audited financial statements are satisfactory and it has been agreed
that such arrangements will be replicated for APCP project as well. The CAPMU has prepared financial
reporting forms for the project (FMRs), as well as chart o f account, and terms o f references for the audit.

Country Issues.

The country issues are represented in the CFAA report as o f September 2003. This report has identified
weaknesses inthe area of public finances. The conclusion o f the document is that Bank cannot rely on the
Moldovan financial accountability framework and should ensure that each operation (under the Project) has
an acceptable level o f financial management to provide effective and appropriate use o f funds. Taking into
account that CAPMU will perform the fiduciary functions under the project and Grant matching scheme
will be administered by the P M Uaccording to the procedures reflected inOMfor the Grant, which is found
to be satisfactory, so these measures are quite appropriate to mitigate financial risks related to the Grant
scheme.

Strengths and Weaknesses.

Strendhs: The significant strengths that provide a basis of reliance on the project financial management
system include: (i)experience o f CAPMU and its Chief Accountant in implementing Bank-financed
projects and satisfying Bank financial management requirements; and (ii)     the unqualified audit reports and
positive management letters issued by CAPMU's project auditors; (iii) nature o f the APCP project to
                                                                          close
the currently implementing RISP project.

Weaknesses: The project needs to introduce risk mitigation measures underthe Grant scheme with the aim
to anticipate and prevent inefficient use o f Grant funds. This relates to the payment of taxes due and other
external debts by the grant beneficiaries as well as protection from the seizer o f assets as a collateral or tax
lien.

This weakness was addressed by development o f a Grant Operational Manual, which specifies procedures
applied to the Grant, suggesting a set o f actions required to ensure control over Grant use. Grant
mechanism provides for 3-stage financing process with conditions to be met at each stage.

Implementing Entity.

CAPMU was established in 1999 through consolidation o f two predecessor implementation units, the
Directorate o f the First Agriculture Project that was set up in 1996 and the Rural Finance Project
Implementation Unit that was established in 1997. CAPMU was created specifically to implement all
Bank-financed    agncultural projects and has already established a successful track record in its



                                                     - 64 -

implementation o f these projects. It will also implement the proposed Agncultural Pollution Control Project
(APCP) and Youth Inclusion and Learning and Innovation Project. CAPMU is a state legal entity that
reports to the Ministry o f Finance, Ministryo f Economy and Ministryo f Agriculture.

Funds Flow.

There are two parts o f the funds flow scheme that should be considered inthe project. The first part relates
to the general scheme o f the project financing and assumes that project funds will flow from: (i)   the Bank,
either via a single Special Account which will be replenished on the basis o f SOEs or by direct payment on
the basis o f direct payment withdrawal applications; or (ii)the Government, via the Treasury at the
MinistryofFinance (MOF) on the basis ofpayment requests approved by the ForeignDebt Department of
the MOF.

Grant funds will be disbursed only to bank account inthe name o f the Grantee that has been opened and is
utilized by the Grantee solely for the purpose o f the grant on terms and conditions satisfactory to the PMU,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Payments out o f the bank account
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures for the Work determined inthis Grant Agreements. The
funds held in the bank account may not be invested in any financial instruments such as stocks, bonds,
options or any other dividend-, interest- or capital-generating instruments nor may the funds be loaned or
usedas security for any activities unrelated to Work.

The grant will be disbursed in tranches. The first tranche payment will be made immediately upon signing
o f this Agreement by the contractors. Disbursements will be made on the basis o f tranche disbursement
requests (invoices) that the Grantee will sendto the P M U when the milestone for the particular tranche has
been met. The Grantee shall also provide the P M U any documents that they may require to ascertain
whether the expenditure incurred under the previous tranche is reasonable. The P M U may withhold
scheduled payments inthe event that the Grantee's expenditure reports show large cash balance inthe grant
account, or may delay the next scheduled grant payment(s).

Expenditure o f grant funds must adhere to the specific line items in the approved budget. Transfers among
line items o f the approved budget are restricted to a cumulative total o f 20% o f the item. If a transfer in
excess o f this restricted level becomes necessary, or the Grantee wishes to establish a new line item, the
Grantee shall promptly request authorization from the P M U by letter.
Only incremental operating costs incurred for execution o f the sub-project will be financed by the grant
fimds and existing operating costs of the Grantee cannot be financed by grant funds. All interest generated
by grant activities shall be applied to the project fimded by the grant or other similar activities conducted
by the Grantee.


Grant participants' accounts will be credited on the amount o f Matching Grant advance in amount o f about
30% and will be disbursed at grant approval under the RISP project; the second payment, in amount of
30% o f the grant, will be provided following inspection and approval o f the completion o f the tasks set as
conditions to the advance payment; the third and fmal payment will be provided following inspection and
approval of second stage actions completion.

Staffing.

CAPMU includes one General Director, a finance team comprising a Chief Accountant and one assistant, a
Procurement Specialist, and various teams established to implement the various projects' components and
sub-components. CAPMU has significant experience o f implementing Bank-financed projects and has


                                                     - 65 -

demonstrated that it is fully capable o f fulfilling the accounting and reporting needs o f the project.

Accounting Policies and Procedures.

The accounting books and records are maintained on a cash basis and project financial statements are
presented in United States dollars (and MDL as necessary). CAPMU has instituted a set of appropriate
accounting procedures and internal controls including authorization and segregation o f duties.

Accounting policies to be applied to the project will include the following major assumptions:
- cash accounting as the basis for recording transactions;
-- reporting should be done inUS dollars;
- reports
   consolidated financial reports should be preparedfor all components;
           to be prepared are FMRs;
-- reportsto be submitted to the WB on a quarterly basis;
   all counterpart funds should be reflected inthe financial statements

The CAPMU has adjusted its accounting software to reflect the APCP project specifics. Chart o f accounts
for the project as well as financial reporting forms have been developed and have been agreed by the WB
FMS and project management.

Reporting and Monitoring.

CAPMU's produces all financial reports and SOEs directly from the project accounting software. CAPMU
has demonstrated in its previous projects that it is able to report on project expenditures with this system
and it was assessed that the system works fine but this accounting system requires minor adjustments to be
capable to provide reporting forms for the APCP.

Project management-oriented Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be used for project financial
reporting, monitoring and supervision and the indicative formats o f these reports has been developed and
found acceptable. These reporting forms are included in the CAPMU accounting manual designed for the
APCP project needs. CAPMU will produce a full set o f FMRs every three months throughout the life o f the
project.

Information Systems.

CAPMU'S information system i s based on the computerized accounting software, which is used for
presenting project financial reports denominated in local currency and foreign currencies. The system i s
well developed and presents an integrated accounting system that helps to provide day-to-day transaction,
control over contracts, Special Account statement. The system has integrated Bank client system that helps
to facilitate payment orders processing. This system is designed to run several different projects at the same
time, which allows the P M U to implementa few projects simultaneously.

2. Audit Arrangements
No significant issues have arisen in the audits o f previous Bank-financed projects implemented by
CAPMU.

CAPMU's previous and current auditing arrangements and findings are satisfactory to the Bank. The audit
o f the project will be conducted by the independent private auditor, acceptable to the Bank on terms o f
reference acceptable to the Bank. The annual audited project financial statements will be provided to the


                                                       - 66 -

Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year and also at the closing of the project. The contract
for the audit awarded during the first year o f project's implementation and thereafter is to be extended from
year-to-year with the same auditor, subject to satisfactory performance. The cost o f the audit will be
financed from the proceeds o f the Grant. TORSfor the project audit has been drafted and agreed.

An audit opinion on the projects financial statements, statements of expenditures and Special Account will
be required within six months to the end o f the fiscal year and also o f the closing o f the project. The first
audit report i s planned to be provided by June 30,2005.

In adltion, the Moldovan Court of Accounts, the country's supreme audit institutionwill provide control
over the project according to their plans. The usual practice assumes one audit o f the project per year.

3. DisbursementArrangements

Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
The allocation o f Grant proceeds is given in Table C, which also indicates the GEF financing by
expenditure category. The project will be executed over a period o f five years during which the full Grant
amount o f USS4.95 million will be disbursed. Activities under the Project are expected to be completed by
June 30, 2009 and the expected closing date for the project will be December 31, 2009 after which no
disbursements will be made.

The project will initially use transaction-based disbursement procedures (direct payments, reimbursements
and replenishments to the Special Account with full documentation or SOEs) and produce FMRs for
reporting and management information only and not for disbursement purposes.

The FM System will be assessed in end 2004 for the eligibility for FMR-based disbursements.
Subsequently the Recipient and the Bank will review the possibility o f disbursingon the basis o f the FMRs.

                                  Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds

          Expenditure Category                  Amount in US$million               Financing Percentage
 1. Works                                                  0.75                             100%
 2. Goods                                                  0.84            100% o f foreign expenditures, 100%
                                                                             o f local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
                                                                         and 100% o f local expenditures for other
                                                                                    items procured locally
 3. Consulting Services and Training                       0.67              100% for foreign consulting firms
                                                                           individual consultants, 96% for local
                                                                            consulting firms and 80% for local
                                                                            individual consultants and 100% o f
                                                                           eligible social charges, and 100% for
                                                                                           training
 1. Grantsto support credit line ofRISP                    2.00               100% o f the amounts disbursed
 5. Incremental Operating Costs                            0.40           (a) 96% for local consulting firms and
                                                                         80% for local individual consultants and
                                                                             100% o f eligible social charges
                                                                                       (b) Other --97%
 5. Unallocated                                            0.29


                                                     - 67 -

 Total Project Costs with Bank                              4.95
 Financing
 Total                                                      4.95




The Project is exempted from VAT under Moldovan law. The disbursement percentages applicable to
local expenditures have beencalculated on the basis of the VAT exemption and include an assumed 5%
import duty for category 2 and 3% import duty for category 5(b).

 Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):

Statement o f Expenditure (SOE) would be used for all expenditures on procurements not requiring Bank
prior reviewiapproval as follows:
(i)   works estimatedto cost less than US$200,00;
(ii)   goods estimated to cost less than USS100,OOO per contract;
(iii)individual
       f i r m s contracts costing less than USS50,OOO;
(iv)                 consultant contracts costing less than US$25,000;
(v)    training;
(vi) incremental recurrent costs; and
(vii) all grants to support credit line o fRISP.

Fulldocumentation to support expenditures would be retained by the PMU for the life o f the project. This
information would be available for review during supervision by Bank staff, and for annual audits, which
will be required to specifically comment on the propriety o f SOE disbursements and the quality o f the
associated record keeping. Invoices supporting disbursements against SOEs should be kept for at least one
year after the Bank has received the last audit report under the grant.

 Special account:
Inorder to facilitate disbursements, the Recipient will open and maintain a Special Account (SA), with an
acceptable bank in Moldova on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The Special Account will be
drawn upon to meet payments to contractors, suppliers and consultants under the project. The initial
allocation to the SA would be US$300,000 and the ceiling in the SA would be limited to US$500,000.
Funds from the Special Account will be disbursed by submitting the relevant withdrawal applications.
Replenishment applications should be submittedmonthly or at the latest once every three months and must
include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.

Supervisionplan

Duringproject implementation, the Bank will supervise the project's financial management arrangements in
two main ways: (i) the project's six-monthly financial management reports as well as the project's
                        review
annual audited financial statements and auditor's management letter; and (ii)duringthe Bank's supervision
missions, review the project's financial management and disbursement arrangements (including a review of
a sample o f SOEs and movements on the Special Account) to ensure compliance with the Bank's minimum
requirements.        As required, a Bank-accredited Financial Management Specialist will assist in the
supervision process.




                                                        - 68 -

                               Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
              MOLDOVA: AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT


  Project Schedule                                          Planned                       Actual
ITime taken to prepare the project (months)              24
I FirstBank mission (identification)                     0911512000                     0912012000
Fpraisal mission departure                      III       1011512003          III       1010112003    III
  Negotiations                                            1211712003                    1211712003
  Planned Date of Effectiveness                          0313112004

Prepared by:
Aleksander Nacev, Jitendra Srivastava, Meeta Sehgal, Rohan Selvarathnam, Alexander Jolondovich,
Sergiu Magdil, John Cole, Keith Openshaw


Preparation assistance:
Sharifa Kalala

Bank staff who worked on the projec included:
          Name                                           Speciality
 Aleksander Nacev                        Technical
 Jitendra Snvastava                      Technical
 Meeta Sehgal                            Technical
 Doina Rachita                           Technical
 Nora Dudwick                            Social Specialist
 Elmas Arisoy                            Procurement
 Bogdan Contantinescu                    Financial Management
 Zoe Kolovou                             Counsel
  David Freese                           Finance
 Vitaly Kazakov                          Financial Management
  Majory-Anne Bromhead                   Quality Assurance
 Nadim Khoun                             Peer Reviewer
  Jacob Kampen                           Peer Reviewer
  Rohan Selvarathnam                     Project Costs




                                                   - 69 -

                              Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
              MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT


A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft prepared to be finalizedafter negotiations.
               -

B. Bank Staff Assessments



C. Other
Working Paper 1:          Basic Dataon Pilot WatershedArea
Working Paper2:           CommunityNeedsAssessment
Working Paper 3:          Baseline HouseholdSurvey / Social Assessment
WorkmgPaper 4:            Test andDemonstrationProgramfor SoilManagementProgram
   Environment-fnendly
                          Agricultural Practices
Working Paper 5:          Manure ManagementSystem
Working Paper 6:          Shrub& Tree PlantingProgram
Working Paper 7:          Wetlands ManagementProgram
Working Paper 8:          Water and SoilQuality MonitoringProgram
Working Paper 9:          NationalLevelStrengtheningofPolicy& RegulatoryCapacity
Working Paper 10:         PublicAwarenessProgram
Working Paper 11:         LegislativeandCertificationArrangements for PromotingOrganic Farming
(TACIS)
Working Paper 12:         Project Cost Tables
Working Paper 13:         ProjectProcurementPlan
Working Paper 14:         FinancialManagementSystem
Working Paper 15:         Project Monitoring& EvaluationSystem
Working Paper 16:         EnvironmentalAssessment & Mitigation Plan; IncrementalCost Analysis
*Including electronic files




                                                  - 70 -

                                       Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                        MOLDOVA: AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
                                                          27-Oct-2003
                                                                                                                Difference between expected
                                                                                                                         and actual
                                                               Original Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements"
 Project ID  FY    Purpose                                 IBRD         IDA                      Cancel. Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO82878      2004 YOUTH INCLUSIONLIC                          0.00        3.00                      0.00     3.10        0.00       0.00
PO40558      2004 ENERGY 2                                    0.00       35.00                      0.00   37.91         0.00       0.00
PO73626      2003 TRADE a TRANS FACIL IN SE ELJR              0.00        7.21                      0.00     7.77       -0.10       0.00
PO74122      2003 AIDS CONTROL                                0.00        0.00                      0.00     5.65        0.14       0.00
PO74469      2003 WSISAN                                      0.00       12.00                      0.00   12.07        -0.50       0.00
P060434      2002 RURAL INVa SERVS (APL #I)                   0.00       10.50                      0.00     1.43       -7.64      -0.47
PO51174      2001 HEALTH INVST FUND                           0.00       10.00                      0.00     7.16        2.56       0.29
PO44840      1999 SIF                                         0.00       15.00                      0.00     0.23        0.21       0.00
PO51173      1999 SOCPROT                                     0.00       11.10                      0.00     7.81        6.88       0.00
PO35771      1998 FIRST CADASTRE                              0.00       15.90                      0.00     4.50        4.34      -0.59
PO35811      1997 PSDZ                                        0.00        9.00                      0.00     2.00        2.04       0.00
PO08558      1997 GENEDUC                                    16.80        0.00                      5.53     2.22        3.07       0.17

                                                   Total:   16.80       128.71                      5.53   91.85        11.00      -0.60




                                                             -71    -

                                          MOLDOVA
                                      STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                   HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                         June 30 2003
                                                   -
                                       InMillions USDollars


                                                          Committed                       Disbursed
                                                        IFC                             IFC
FYApproval     Company                           Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
2000           FinComBank                        1.50      0.00     0.00     0.00   1.50  0.00    0.00  0.00
1997           INCON                             4.93      2.00     0.00     0.00  4.93   2.00    0.00  0.00
2002           MEC Bank Moldova                  0.00      1.47     0.00     0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
2000           MEC Moldova                       0.00      0.10     0.90     0.00  0.00   0.10    0.90  0.00
2000           Moldindconbank                    2.44      0.00     0.00     0.00  2.44   0.00    0.00  0.00
2001          UFMoldova                         25.00      0.00     0.00     0.00  10.00  0.00    0.00  0.00
2001           Victoriabank                      3.42      0.00     0.00     0.00  3.42   0.00    0.00  0.00
               VoxTel                            0.00      0.00     0.18     0.00  0.00   0.00    0.18  0.00
1999100101
                      Total Portfolio:              ~~~
                                                37 29      3.57      1.08    0.00  22.29   2.10    1.08  0.00



                                                       Amrovals Pendine Commitment
FY Approval   Company                              Loan      Equity      Quasi    Partic


              Total PendingCommitment:              0.00        0.00      0.00     0.00




                                               - 72 -

                                                      Annex 10: Country at a Glance
                    MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
                                                                                Europe B
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                                  Central        Low-
                                                                      Moldova         Asia     income            3evelopmentdiamond'
2002
Population,mid-year (millions)                                             4.3         476       2,495                           Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                        460        2,160         430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billiond                                            2.0        1,030      1,072                                  T
Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population I%)                                                            -0.3          0.1         1.9
Laborforce (%)                                                             0.3          0.4         2.3          3NI                                        Gross
                                                                                                                 Jer                                      primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                                            :apita                                 nroilment
Poverty (% of population below nationalpoverty line)                       23
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                                    42           63           30
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                            67           69           59                                 1
Infantmortality (per 1.000live births)                                     26           25           81
Child malnutrition (% of childrenunder 5)                                                                              Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                         92           91           76
illiteracy ("Aofpopulation age 15+)                                          1            3          37
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)                        84          102           95                           Moldova
    Male                                                                   84          103          103                            Low-incomearouo
                                                                                                                           ~

    Female                                                                 84          101           87

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                           1982          1992         2001        2002           Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                                         2.8          1.5         1.6
Gross domestic investmentiGDP                                             59.8        20.0         20.2
Exportsof goods and servicesiGDP                                          89.4        50.0         49.3                               Trade

Gross domestic savingsiGDP                                                55.9         -4.4        -4.9
Gross nationalsavingsiGDP                                                              12.7        13.3

Current account balanceiGDP                                                            -6.7
interest paymentsiGDP                                                      0.0          3.3         2.6
Total debtiGDP                                                             1.4        83.5         86.4
Total debt serviceiexports                                                 0.6         14.7        22.3
Presentvalue of debVGDP                                                               76.1
Presentvalue of debtiexports                                                          98.3                                          Indebtedness
                                           1982-92      1992-02          2001         2002     2002-06
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                                      -Moldova
GDP                                            -1.3          -4.0          6.1          7.2         5.0
GDP per capita                                 -2.0          -3.8          6.3          7.6         5.5                     __Low-incomegroup


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY

(% of GDP)
AgricuIture                                                               50.9         26.0        25.1          15 7.

Industry                                                        ....      31.5         24.1        24.2
    Manufacturing                                                                      18.2        18.2
Services                                                        ..        17.6        49.8         50.7
Privateconsumption                                                        25.9         92.1        91.1             i
General governmentconsumption                                             18.2         12.3        13.8
                                                                                                                ~

imports of goods and services                                   ......    93.3         74.4        74.4                      *--"GDI           " O I G D P




(average annualgrowth)                                  1982.92        1992-02        2o01

Agriculture                                                               -6.0          4.3
industry                                                        ....      -8.4         17.5
    Manufacturing                                                         -1.1         17.8         6.0
Services                                                                   2.0         -0.5
Privateconsumption
General governmentconsumption
Gross domestic investment                                       ..       -12.3         -8.8        10.4
                                                                                                               ~         ms''mw*  Exports     *Imports
Importsof goods and services                                               6.0         10.9         9.7        '                                                 I
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will be incomplete.




                                                                                 - 73 -

                                                                                                                                   Moldova

 PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                  1982      1992         2001   2002
 Domestic prices                                                                           Inflation (Oh)                                       I
 (77 change)
 Consumer prices                                                          9.8     4.4     40

 Implicit GDP deflator                                     945.0         11.9     8.1     30
                                                                                          20
 Government finance                                                                       10
 (% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                       0
 Current revenue                                            22.4         29.1   28.6                97     98       99       w        01       02
Current budget balance                                       -2.6         1.7    -1.0                -GDP        deflator    ' O ' C P I
Overall surplusideficit                                     -26.6        -0.1    -2.9

TRADE
                                                  1982      1992         2001   2002     1
 (US$ millions)                                                                            Export and import levels (US$ mill.)                  I
Total exports (fob)                                          868          569    611
   Live animals and animal products                                        18      20
   Vegetable products                                                      79      86
   Manufactures                                                           115    119
Total imports (cif)                                          905         882     972
   Food                                                                    38     29
   Fuel and energy                                                       201     218
                                                                                                                                                 I
   Capital goods                                                          120    131

 Export price index (1995=100)                                            275    284              96    97    98       99     00     01

 Import price index (1995=100)                                            245    247                   Exports          EImports             O2
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                                 112    115

 BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                                  1982      1992         2001   2002     1
 (US$ millions)                                                                            Current account balance to GDP (%)

 Exports of goods and services                               903          739    805        0
 Imports of goods and services                               942        1,101   1,215
 Resource balance                                            -39         -362   -410        5

 Net income                                                               101    163       10
 Net current transfers                                                    152    152
                                                                                          -15
 Current account balance                                                  -99

 Financing items (net)                                                    108             2 0

 Changes in net reserves                                      15          -10     -28

 Memo:
 Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                                   229    273
 Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                     .. 6.80E-2         12.9    13.6

 EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                                  1982      1992         2001   2002
 (US$ miliionsj                                                                          1 Composition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
 Totai debt outstanding and disbursed                         39        1,235   1,401
    IBRD                                                       0          181    186
    IDA                                                        0          113    145     I                                 A: 186

 Total debt service                                            5          168    231
    iBRD                                                       0           17      17
    iDA                                                        0            1       1

 Composition of net resource flows
    Official grants                                             1          54
    Official creditors                                        30           -8      -4
    Private creditors                                          0           4      -17
    Foreign direct investment                                  0           94
    Portfolio equity                                           0           4
                                                                                         ~                             E. 145
 World Bank program
    Commitments                                                0           5      41       A - IBRD                               E - Bilateral
    Disbursements                                              0           18      26      B - IDA     D - Other multilateral     F - Private
    Principal repayments                                       0           7        9  IC-IMF                                     G Short-tern
                                                                                                                                    -
    Net flows                                                  0           11      18
    interest payments                                          0           11       9
    Net transfers                                              0           0        9

'Note: Inis table was proaucea trom tne ueveiopment tconomics central aatanase.                                                          t     (  m




                                                                   -  74 -

               Additional Annex 11: Summary of EnvironmentalAssessment
                                and Environmental Management Plan
               MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT

A. EnvironmentalAssessment

The environmental assessment was prepared in2003 through visits to project sites and intense consultative
discussions with stakeholders within the project area. The environmental situation in the project area,
which is detailed in the Environmental Assessment Report on files, may be summarized thus: Poor
agricultural practices are exacerbating soil and water erosion and a lack o f appropriate fertilizers is
depressing productivity. Organic fertilizers, which could replace up to a third o f chemical fertilizers, are
not being used because o f a lack o f transport and spreading equipment or because o f poor organization to
use existing equipment. Manure is being dumped along roads, rivers and streams due to an absence o f such
facilities. The concentrations o f organic fertilizers are leaching into surface water and increasing the
amount o fNand P inthe Danube Delta, thus intensifying eutrophication rates. Also, Nand P from dung is
percolating into groundwater and then into well water, causing potential health hazards. Also, existing
animal numbers are greater than the carrying capacity o f the land, especially as feed and fodder from
outside are no longer available or affordable. Pastures and woodland resources are being over-used to the
detriment o f the quality o f the soil. Inaddition, because `commercial' fuel availability has decreased, wood
and residues are being used as substitutes. This is further degrading forest areas and affecting the amount
o f residues being returned to the soil. Apart from arable agriculture being adversely affected, vineyards
and orchards are also suffering due to lack o f inputs and depressed producer prices. The resultant loss in
the volume and quality o f crops is also having repercussions on the existing agro-industries that are
experiencing declining profits as factories receive poor quality or a lower volume o f deliveries. These
factories are also unable to afford proper disposal o f effluents from (reduced) outputs. Much effluent is
being disposed of in inappropriate ways, although there are (environmental) laws that govern such
disposals. Some o f this untreated or partially treated effluent finds its way into surface and ground water,
adding to the pollution problem.

Agncultural areas within the country are on a downward economic and environmental spiral. But with
some external assistance, coupled with the proper use o f existingresources, improved arable, pasture and
forestry practices, better co-operation with agro-industries and the full co-operation o f local people,
assisted by local and central government, there is good potential to stem and reverse this downward trend.
The principal thrust o f the APCP i s to demonstrate how this can be achieved.

The EA determined that the impacts o f the proposed project are overwhelmingly positive as it would reduce
the amount o f nutrients leaching into the surface and groundwater flowing directly into the river systems
and subsequently into the Black Sea.         All the project activities that may have direct environmental
implications concern Component 1: Promotion of Mitigation Measures to Reduce Nutrient Load in
Surface and Ground Water. (Component 2: National Level Strengthening of Policy and Regulatory
Capacity and Component 3: Public Awareness and Replication Strategy will be used to facilitate and
expand Component 1 activities). Therefore, only activities under Component 1 are dealt with in detail in
relation to the Environmental Management Plan. The EMP has been designed to monitor the soil and water
quality and erosion so that immediate mitigation measures could be taken if the potential for environmental
damage occurs. The environmental issues that are likely to require special attention include: leakage o f the
manure from the village-level storage facilities (if construction is not made according to specifications),
inappropriate manure spreading in the fields and improper cleaning o f the individual manure storage tanks
and large manure platforms.



                                                      - 75 -

               B. Environmental Management Plan for Moldova APCP Project

ssues         AnticipatedIPotential
              EnvironmentalImpacts
urface water  i)Surfacewaterqualitywillimprove
uality        with the reduction innitrogen and
              phosphorusfrom cattle, pigs,
              sheepigoats and poultry manure
              disposal sites. Agricultural areas
              treatedwith organic and inorganic
              fertilizers, as better nutrient
              managementpracticeswill be
              implementedby the project.                Increasedutility of ivater
                                                       r downstreamusers and      ii)Undertakearigorous
              ii) Water draining into Lapusna,         heries ifany.              surface \Yarer quality
              Prut and DanubeRivers improves.                                     monitoringprogramme for

              iii)Overalleffectsonthequalityof
              Danuberiver will be positive.
              Probabilityof occurrence: High




iround-water  i) Reduction in nutrient leaching to
              groundwater quality will occur with
              the introduction of bettermanure
              storage and handling, and nutrient
              managementpractices.

              ii)Qualityofdrinkingwater
              supplies will improve with the
              reduction o f nitrate and bacteria in
              groundwater as a result o f collecting
              manure from individual farmer's
              homesteads and storing in
              communal platforms.

              Probability of occurrence:High




oil Quality   With the introduction of better
              farming systems, soil quality will



                                                  - 76 -

                   improve, erosion decreased            and carbon sequestration,   the effect ofbetter farming
                                                                       and soil loss. systems on soil erosion and
                   IProbability of occurrence: High     Ireduce humus                lsoil and water quality.
Wetland            IWiththe re-establishment of a       IDecrease o f N& P, and      IUndertake monitoring of
                                                                                                           -
establish-ment     wetland inthe lower reaches of the faecal matter flowing into     water quality and flora and
                   Lapusna and Prut rivers will act as a the Danube basin.            fauna.
                   filter for chemical and faecal        More sustainable use of
                   material. Increase in the floraifauna habitat.

                   Probability of occurrence: High
Bio-diversity      Increasedbiodiversity will occur       ncreasedbiodiversity and    Observe impact on new
                   because of better manure               iigratory bird population. plant and animal
                   management systems, introduction                                  populations, and soil worm
                   of conservation tillage systems,                                   and microbial activity.
                   forest areas, buffer strips etc.                                   Measure effects on soil
                                                                                      organic matter and carbon
                   Probability of occurrence: High                                    contents, and possibly water
                                                                                      quality.

C. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING

1.       EquipmentPurchases. (Justification is Included in theProject documents)
Fieldequipment is to be purchased for soil erosion monitoring andchemical analysis, ($5,300), ground and
surface water monitoring for nutrient faecal content and leaching ($92,549), and wetland monitoring
($2,255). In addition there will be purchases o f other equipment not specified above. A cost breakdown is
as follows.




                                                      - 77 -

FieldpHmeter                                       1           534               534           Local
Automatic Ion Analyser (Lachet Type)               1        37,384            37,384           Local
Laboratory Consumablesand Reagents         Lumpsum           7,477             7,417           Local
Standards
Total                                                                         92,549

Apart from the above costs, there are costs for equipment installation, technical services and other
activities. The total cost o f monitoring and evaluation is given as US$637,000. A breakdown o f the costs
i s as follows:
r      Item      I Equipment     1 Civilworks    I  Technical   I  Technical    I   P M U a n d I   Total
                       US$             US$          Services $    Assistance $ Miscellaneous         US$
Soil Institute      5,300            5,300        75,125         58,300
Wetland             2.255           12.180         12.035        (national)
SoiliWater         92,549           10,672       1254,736        26,500 (int.)
Total             100,104        II28,152        1342,496        84,800          8 1,448        637,000



D. SCHEDULE
The various mitigation & monitoring plans are described in detail in the PIP and the working papers. All
mitigation activities will commence in year 1 and continue to year 5. Similarly monitoring activities well
start when the project commences. It is recommended that monitoring should continue beyond the lifetime
o f the project, because it may take ten years or more before meaningfulresults are obtained for some o f the
activities. These is little training, most o f it is on-the-job.   This will start in year 1 and continue as
necessary. The GIS training will be inyear 1.

E. INSTITUTIONALARRANGEMENTS

The P M U is in overall charge o f monitoring and evaluation. However, the institutions responsible for
undertaking much o f the field and laboratory work and analysing the data are:

1. MECTD (The Water Quality Laboratory and Hydrological Department o f the Hydro-meteorological
Service, and the Central and RegionalLaboratories o f the State Environmental Inspectorate).
2. The Soil Institute.
3. Moldsilva.
4. Institute o f Forest Research and Forest Planning.
5. Hydrometeo service.

These institutions have developed an implementation plan and are ready to start as soon as the project i s
approved. The monitoring and mitigation plans outlined above documented 10 monitoring activities. In
addition, there is going to be continual collection o f meteorological data for the use o f project staff and
beneficiaries.

The various institutions undertaking the monitoring and evaluation shall produce quarterly progress reports
detailing past activities and future plans. All information will be kept inthe P M U office and be available in
written form and on line. As relevant monitoring informationbecomes available it will be conveyed to the
field   staff and the beneficiaries.   Such information could alter or reinforce certain initiatives o f the
programme. This information will also be conveyed to GEF and the World Bank who could use it in other



                                                      - 78 -

projects.  If certain initiatives give poor results, then the PMU could take a decision to terminate this
particular activity.   Thus, monitoring and evaluation is a most usehl tool in determining if the
environmental response is as predicted.

A t the end o f each year, all monitoring data will be summarised in usable form for the benefit o f
stakeholders including the World Bank, MECTD, MAFI, LDPH, Moldsilva, NSCPM, other interested
parties within Moldova and other Black Sea countries. The MECTD (SEI) will have the authority to shut
downichange operations to facilitate the implementation o f a mitigation plan in case problems arise or a
change o f course is warranted.

F. CONSULTATIONWITHLOCAL NGOSAND PROJECT-AFFECTEDGROUPS

Various stakeholders o f the project have been consulted frequently. These include small farmers, members
o f farming organisations, agro-processing factory managers, NGOs such as ACSA, and REC, the Prefects
o f Hincesti and Leova raions and their staff, Mayors and Vice Mayors o f the 11 communes, officials o f
MECTD, MAFI, Moldsilva, Agency o f Geology (AgeoM) the Meteorological Department, and
international agencies like the EU and UNDP. These stakeholders were visited individually or in groups
and `village meetings' were held. The purpose o f the project was explained and the individual functions
elaborated, especially inrelation to the ongoing soil and water quality problems inthe region and its effect
on the river system and the Danube Delta. The record o f these visits are on the project files and in the
various World Bank documents, especially the Aide-memoires o f the Bank's Task ManagerEnvironmental
Expert.    Both conducted missions where they met people from many concerned agencies including
ministries, departments, scientific institutes and NGOs as well as officials and farmers inLapusna Judet.

All the stakeholders agreed that interventions o f proposed inthis project were necessary for the region. All
the communes have signed up for communal platforms and many farmers agreed to have individual
platforms.   Some o f the stakeholders have offered their fields for demonstrations and monitoring and
mayors in selected villages have agreed on the specific wells that would be sampled for water quality. The
draft EMP was discussed with MECTD, MAFI, and Moldsilva, the Prefects o f Hincesti and Leova raions
and their staff and Mayorshice Mayors o f the communes. The final product has been widely circulated to
all interestedparties within the country.




                                                     - 79 -

                     Additional Annex 12: STAP Roster Technical Review
               MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT

Scientific and technical soundness

The scientific and technical basis o f the project is sound. The objective is to reduce nutrient pollution o f
the Danube River system and the Black Sea. The implementation o f the proposed is linked to and
complements a larger IDA fimded Rural Investment and Service Project and would be a key Moldovan
contribution to the regional "Strategic Action Plan for the Protection and Rehabilitation o f the Black Sea"
(BSSAP), formulated with the assistance o f the Global Environment Facility (GEF).

The proposal builds upon and extends the practical demonstration o f implementation and benefits o f
pollution reduction ina number o f projects in the Baltic and Danubemlack Sea areas. It seeks to introduce
and expand a number of agricultural pollution reduction methods and technologies that have been tested
and successfully introduced inother programs inthe regionandelsewhere. The use ofpractical peer to peer
communication through site visits to areas where similar techniques have been implemented elsewhere is
particular welcomed.

Global environment benefits and costs

Nutrient pollution o f the Black Sea has been identified as an environmental issue o f global significance. If
this project achieves its objectives it will have clear benefits in addressing a source o f nutrient pollution o f
the Black Sea. Although the Moldovan agricultural lands in the Danube catchment comprise 1.67% o f the
total the proposal indicates that they contribute more than 2% o f the nutrient pollution reaching the Black
Sea through the Danube.

Implemented successfully and with success in comparable projects being undertaken in other country
catchments draining into the Black Sea this project will contribute substantially to the global goals o f
reduced agricultural pollution o f the Black Sea

The context of GEF goals and guidelines

The project clearly addresses the objectives of the integrated land and water and water quality within the
context o f watershed agricultural and environmental management. It addresses the objectives o f providing a
basis for achieving sustainability and it applies the guidelines with respect to incremental costs and the
log-frame. GEF Operational Program Number 8,             "Waterbody Based Operational Program ", which
focuses "on seriously threatened water-bodies and the most important trans-boundary threats to their
ecosystems". The Project i s also consistent with GEF Operational Programs 12 "Integrated Ecosystem
Management" and 9 "Integrated Land and Water Multiple Focal Areas Operational Program".

Regional Context

Discussed above. The project is important inthe context o f the rehabilitation o fthe Black Sea.

Replicability

This project builds on experience o f projects addressing agricultural pollution and watershed rehabilitation
o f major river systems draining into the Baltic Black and Mediterranean Seas. It replicates many aspects



                                                     - 80 -

o f those projects and should inturnbe readily replicable inother Judet o f Moldova and elsewhere

Sustainability

This is a key element of project design. The ongoing sustainability will depend on demonstration of
benefits, on community adoption o f the better practices demonstrated and particularly on appreciation by
local people and decision-makers o f the economic, environmental and social benefits o f alternative
agncultural methods and on a reasonably equitable flow-on o f those benefits to the various sectors o f the
agricultural community..

Contributionto future strategies and policies

Success with this project should contribute to the broader adoption o f pollution minimisingagricultural
practices inthe catchments o f the Black Sea.

Involvement of stakeholders

The project proposal has relatively little discussion o f stakeholder involvement but the design indicates that
there will be reasonable levels o f take up by and involvement of the community inmanure management and
tree planting activities. The extent o f investment in this component is not indicated because the proposal
lumps most o f the activities including manure management grants, promotion o f organic farming, tree
planting and wetland restoration into a single line item which accounts for $9.95million of a total $10.95
million budget. Given that this encompasses grants to RISP loan recipients, who are likely to be formally
constituted businesses, as well as communal manure management grants more likely to be given to more
traditionally organised village communities it i s difficult to evaluate clearly the likely involvement of the
various stakeholder sectors. Similarly, Iam not aware o f socio-economic and labour force conditions inthe
area and Icould not gain a clear understanding o f the allocation o f work. Specifically, the extent to which
the work of construction o f manure management facilities, tree planting or wetland restoration would be
done broadly by community members or on a specialist basis by employees o f participating agencies was
not clear to me.

Iconsiderthatfurtherconsiderationoftheproposalwouldbehelpedbyabreakdownoffigurestoindicate
the proportions likely to be allocated to the various activities and some indication o f likely community
participation inactivities and the employment opportunities these might provide.

My specific concern is to be clear that there is some rationale to ensure that there are not disproportionate
benefits to organised businesses capable o f achieving RISP loans at the cost o f activities in more
traditionally organised rural activities.

Conclusion

This is a soundly designedproject drawing on the experience of similar projects to tackle critical issues o f
agricultural pollution in ways that appear to be appropriate to the target area. Subject to satisfaction with
a specific budgetary breakdown for the main project activities and an understanding o f community
participation inactivities Irecommend that it should proceed.

RA Kenchington
RAC Marine Pty Ltd
2 November 2003


                                                     -81 -

BankResponseto CommentsReceivedfrom STAPReviewer

The project preparation team was pleased to receive comments from the STAP Reviewer that endorsed the
technical and scientific soundness o f the project. Three issues were raised by the reviewer which have been
addressedbelow:

Issue 1. "Theproject proposal has relatively little discussion of stakeholder involvement..."

Bank Response.       Various stakeholders o f the project have been consulted frequently during project
preparation.   These include small farmers, members o f farming organizations, agro-processing factory
managers, NGOs such as ACSA, and REC, the Prefects o f Hincesti and Leova raions and their staff,
Mayors and Vice Mayors o f the eleven communes, officials o f MECTD, MAFI, Moldsilva, Agency of
Geology, the Meteorological Department, and intemational agencies like the EU and UNDP.               These
stakeholders were visited individually or ingroups and 'village meetings' were held. A baseline survey and
needs assessment program was undertaken (document available with Project Preparation Unit)by the local
NGO, Independent Sociological and Information Service - Opinia. where respondents were asked about
their agricultural practices, livestock numbers,accessibility to markets, health issues, etc. The purpose of
the project was explained and the need to address the ongoing soil and water quality problems inthe region
and their effect on the river system and the Danube Delta. A record o f these visits and discussions are on
the project files and in the various World Bank documents, including the Aide-memoires, Environmental
Assessment andBaseline Household Survey.

Issue 2.   "...breakdown of figures to indicate the proportions likely to be allocated to the various
activities and some indication of likely community participation in activities and the employment
opportunities these might provide".

Following i s the breakdown o f allocations under Component 1- Promotion o f Mitigation Measures for
Reducing Nutrient Loads inWater Bodies:

                                                                            Amount WS$million)
         Activity                                                           Total            GEF

    RISP-supported activities                                                6.0             2.0
    Improved Watershed Management Practices
         Manure Management Practices                                         2.20            1.31

         Promotion o f Environmentally-friendly agricultural practices       0.50            0.3 1

         Wetland restoration                                                 0.16            0.05
         Monitoring soil, water quality and environmental impacts            0.74            0.42

Implementational arrangements under the project have been designed to ensure stakeholder/community
involvement throughout the life o f the project through the instrumentality o f which project beneficiaries
would be provided gainful employment. For example, project beneficiaries would be key participants inthe
implementation o f manure management practices, including provision o f their labor for buildinglivestock
waste bunkers, storage and handling. The Project Implementation Unit will contract participating farmers
to implement on-farm demonstrations o f environmentally friendly agricultural practices and carry out
procurement and overall M&E o f such activities. An NGO would be contracted to undertake public


                                                     - 82 -

awareness activities and implement the replication strategy. These are just some o f the activities designed
under the project to ensure beneficiary participation and provide opportunities for raising household
incomes.

Issue 3.    "ensure that there are not disproportionate benefits to organised businesses capable of
achieving RISP loans at the cost of activities in more traditionally organised rural activities".

On an average, the percentage o fAPCP grants provided to the "smaller beneficiaries" is nearly double than
that to the Rural Investment Services Project (IUSP) credit recipients.             Under RISP, grants o f
approximately 36% o f the total cost o f the mitigating measure(s) will be provided to the credit recipient.
For activities undertaken by non-RISP recipients, for example for manure management practices, GEF will
provide a grant o f up to 70% to cover cost o f construction o f manure facilities.




                                                    - 83 -

- 84 -

MAP SECTION


