Report No. PIC2127
Project Name                   Russia-Education Innovation Project
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Human Resources Development
Project ID                     RUPA8825
Borrower                       Russian Government
Implementing Agency            TBD
Date Initial PID Prepared      March 31, 1995
Date This PID Prepared         September 20, 1996
Projected Appraisal Date       December 2, 1996
Projected Board Date           April 17, 1997
Country and Sector Background
I.   Since 1991 the deteriorating macro-economic environment in Russia
has reduced the public revenues available for education. The decline in
revenue coupled with the rapid transfer of responsibility of education
finance and management to regional and local authorities and the
instability in federal/regional fiscal relations have resulted in a real
drop in per pupil expenditures by level of education. Expenditures for
such unprotected non-salary items as textbooks and other teaching
materials and supplies have especially suffered.     Financial shortages
in the education sector have not yet resulted in major improvements in
efficiency.   Challenges are met through requests for additional
resources rather than through increased efficiency in the use of
existing resources. The emphasis on educational decentralization and
diversity is creating new pressures towards inequalities. There are
growing discrepancies in per pupil expenditures in compulsory education
across and within the 89 regions in Russia. The existing system does
not have explicit mechanisms for compensatory funding of educational
expenditures and redistribution of budget revenues between regions with
different fiscal bases. Consequently, variation in the access to good
quality education is increasing.
II. Currently the capacity in Russia to set education sector policy and
strategy is inadequate, ad hoc, and scattered over a disparate number of
federal institutions, sometimes with competing responsibilities. This
prevents the development of a national mechanism to lead and coordinate
more in-depth technical analysis, comprehensive strategic planning, and
broad public discussion and consensus for the reform of both compulsory
and post-compulsory education.
III. Curricula and teaching methods are not responsive to the developing
market economy where a premium is placed on problem-solving,
occupational flexibility, innovation and creativity in teaching and
learning and active participation in democracy. In recent years there
have been spontaneous adjustments in curricula accompanied by attempts
to introduce choice in compulsory education.



IV. A selective survey of the availability of textbooks in schools
which was carried out as part of project preparation reveals problems of
supply, "age" and content of books. The current estimated need for
publication of new textbooks and new editions of available textbooks is
350-400 million copies, which at current prices would cost $700-800
million. Currently, public resources for textbooks and educational
materials are not sufficient and are not efficiently allocated. There
is a lack a clarity in responsibilities between various levels of
government for the funding of textbook purchasing.
V.   The Higher Education sector is under pressure because of the
general economic situation, the reduction in federal budget financing
and the need to modernize curricular content and teaching methods of
higher education institutions (HEIs). Important indications of efforts
to adjust to the changing needs of the general public for education and
the needs of employers for human resources are changes in distribution
of admissions and graduations by areas of specialization, increase in
the number of new private schools which provide training in the most
wanted areas, changes in standards and the content of education. The
system responded to reduced federal budget funding by drawing
increasingly on the extra-budgetary and local budget sources. However,
the sector continues to suffer from a lack of clearly defined
responsibilities between governing agencies together with an incomplete
legal framework and a lack of transparency in the allocation and use of
public funding. The developing commercialization of some educational
services is also a matter of concern.
Project Objectives
VI. The project would constitute a limited first step in revitalizing
the sector and improving the efficiency of service delivery by: (i)
improving the quality and provision of textbooks to the compulsory
education system in the RF; and (ii) establishing a fund to encourage
efficiencies in Higher Education though support of governance reforms in
HEIs and correcting structural distortions by strengthening social
science education.
Benefits
VII. The proposed project will improve the quality of education which
will contribute to an improvement in human capital. This will, in turn,
contribute to economic growth. While most of the benefits of the
project are not measurable in monetary terms, the project will provide
incentives for the educational system to utilize the same level of
resources in a more efficient manner. Innovations in both components
will improve the quality of educational resources.
VIII.     Specific benefits would be:
(a) The Textbook Component would improve the quality of and access
to textbooks through the provision of electronic information
and book ordering systems; training and equipment for both the
MOE and regional educational administrations to strengthen
educational standards and create new textbook titles; support
for private publishers by removal of the barrier to entry
- 2 -



relating to the Federal and Approved Textbook Lists of the
MOE; equity of access to information on new and improved
textbooks throughout the RF.
(b) The Innovation Fund Component would encourage the reform of
selected Higher Education Institutes and would demonstrate how
to effect considerable savings to the federal budget without
loss of quality by, for example, amalgamating non-efficient
institutions; improving teaching methods; encouraging reduced
teacher-student ratios, strengthening social science
education, promoting greater efficiency in use of public funds
at HEI level through increased accountability and
transparency. In addition, the focus of the IF on the social
science education will prepare graduates for a market economy
and a democratic society and will ensure a supply of well
trained graduates for Government agencies and business. The
proposed reform of governance in HEIs will have as an outcome
more efficient management of the HEIs through better internal
resource allocation; greater accountability; and the
development of strategic planning.    The reform of Governance
will also increase the responsiveness of the HEIs to the needs
of society through linkages with local government and with
enterprises.
The pilot nature of both components would provide important lessons for
future Bank projects in the education sector in Russia.
Risks
IX. This is the first operation in the Education sector in Russia and
as such there may be several associated risks: (i) weak institutional
and implementation capacity compounded with potential problems of
dealing with several implementing Higher Education Institutions, (ii)
new structures needed; (iii) possible reluctance of private publishers
to publish school textbooks without some system of ensuring big enough
print runs; (iv) difficulty of monitoring project impact due to wide
geographical network; (v) risk of fund not achieving desired reform in
HEIs. However these risks are mitigated by (a) the participatory nature
of the project preparation process which relied on considerable input
from Russian counterparts over a sustained period of time and over a
wide range of Regions and institutions; (b) the pilot nature of each
component and its relatively moderate expectations of reform; and (c)
the relatively modest size of the investment in each component.
Project Description
X.   Textbook Component ($30 million): Develop key elements of textbook
publishing to ensure equity of access to new textbooks through: (a)
support for the development of national education standards in the
Ministry of Education; (b) new textbook development; (c) improvement of
evaluation and approval mechanism (Federal Expert Council) for Federal
Set of Textbooks; (d) the development of a textbook electronic
information and ordering system which would disseminate "books in print"
information to the regions; and (e) training programs for regional and
local education administrators in textbook ordering and information
- 3 -



exchange.
XI. Innovation Fund Component ($50 million): The project would
establish an Innovation Fund to promote reform in Higher Education
Institutes through a focus on initiatives in one discipline: social
sciences with particular attention to economics. The Fund would operate
through grants which would be based on the outcome of a competitive
process between institutions. Conditions of application and award
criteria will be pre-defined by the Bank and the Borrower, and awards
would be determined through a transparent process. Grants from the
Innovation Fund would contribute to governance reform, capacity
building, and support for social science departments in participating
institutions. Important outcomes of this component would be: (i)
increased autonomy; (ii) devolved decision-making; (iii) improved
accountability in the participating HEIs; (iv) improved content; and (v)
teaching of social sciences.
Financing
XII. Estimated project cost and financing are as follows:
IBRD:          $80 million
Government:    TBD
Cofinanciers:  TBD
TOTAL:         TBD
Implementation
XIII.     The project will be implemented over a period of 3-5 years.
The recent amalgamation of the former Ministry of Education and State
Committee for Higher Education into one national ministry, the Ministry
of Secondary and Professional Education, will simplify project
implementation. A PIU would be established for administering both
components even though different procurement and administrative
arrangements will be a challenge.
Sustainability
XIV. The Project would support measures for the Government to finance
and maintain levels of recurrent education spending in real terms after
the conclusion of the project.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
XV. This is the first World Bank project in the education sector in
Russia. However, past Bank experience in education lending indicates
that effective implementation and longer-term sustainability of
education projects depend strongly on the improvement of educational
management at all government levels as well as the establishment of
effective systems to manage sector and school level information, project
monitoring information, and procurement and delivery activities.
XVI. Education projects in China, Hungary, and Romania offer general
lessons for project design in the transition economies. China's first
-4 -



Bank project emphasized the importance of technology transfer and re-
integration of the higher education system into international knowledge
and academic networks. In Hungary, the Human Resources Project has a
component which aims to reform the curricular content of vocational
secondary schools. The mid-term review indicated a high level of user
satisfaction. The project created a climate of change which has gained
momentum, has already spread beyond the original project schools, and
will likely expand to national scale. However, project implementation
could have been more decentralized with less central control.
XVII.     There are also several generic lessons from implementing Bank
projects in Russia. These include the importance of: (i) strong
Government ownership; (ii) consistent counterparts with authority for
preparation; (iii) interministerial coordination; (iv) including local
consultants and institutions in all stages of project preparation; (v)
setting up PIUs at an early stage with experienced advisors to
facilitate efficient project management; (vi) early detailed attention
to procurement and other implementation issues. Preparation of this
project to date has been highly participatory.
Poverty Category
XVIII.    Through support for more efficient finance and provision of
new textbook and materials content, the project is expected to improve
the quality and relevance of education and increase the ability of
students to function productively in a market-economy, and thus help to
alleviate poverty.
Environmental Aspects
XIX. The project is not expected to have any adverse environmental
impacts and accordingly, is classified as a category "C" project.
Program Objective Categories
XX. This project fits into the Program Objective Category of Economic
Management because it will support the Russian Government's efforts to:
(a) maintain existing essential service levels; (b) increase the
efficiency and equity of service delivery; (c) develop appropriate
knowledge and skills critical for economic transition and social
development; and (d) ensure the financial sustainability of the
education system.
Contact Point:      Mary Canning, EC3HR
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
(202) 473-2880 (tel)
(202) 477-0954 (fax)
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending
- 5 -



September 20, 1996.
- 6-



