Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16267-RU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
EDUCATION INNOVATION PROJECT
May 6, 1997
Human Resources Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS (as of 5/4/97)
Currency Unit   =  Rubles (Rb)
1(Rb)   =  US$ .000174
US$1    =  5761 Rb
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Rubles per US$1
1996                5129 Rb
1995                4566 Rb
1994                2212 Rb
1993                1018 Rb
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APD           -        Application Procedures Document
CAS            -        Country Assistance Strategy
CEE            -       Central and Eastern Europe
CPPR          -        Country Performance Portfolio Review
CSIP           -       Community Social Infrastructure Project
ECA           -        Europe and Central Asia
EIP           -        Education Innovation Project
ESSP           -       Employment Services and Social Protection Project
ESW            -        Economic and Sector Work
EU            -        European Union
GDP            -       Gross Domestic Product
GOR           -        Government of Russia
HE            -        Higher Education
HEls           -       Higher Education Institutions
IF            -        Innovation Fund
MFT            -       Management and Financial Training Project
MGPE          -        Ministry of General and Professional Education
MOE           -        Ministry of Economy
MOF           -        Ministry of Finance
NTF           -        National Training Foundation
PHRD           -       Policy Human Resource Development (grant)
PIU           -        Project Implementation Unit
RF            -        Russian Federation
SCHE          -        State Committed for Higher Education
SRSs          -        Structural Reform Schemes
SSASSs         -       Social Sciences Academic Award Schemes
SSDSs          -        Social Science Development Schemes
WB            -        World Bank
WG             -       Working Group (for project preparation)
RUSSIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:  Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Director:     Yukon Huang, EC3DR
Division Chief: Robert Liebenthal, EC3HR
Staff:        Mary Canning, Task Manager; Maribeth Macica, Joe Scearce(EC3HR); Andrei Markov,
Mark Agranovitch (EC3MO); Julian Rea, Clive Sinclair, Josephine Hykin (Consultants)



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
EDUCATION INNOVATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page Number
LOAN  AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY    ......................................    i
I.  INTRODUCTION    ................................................    1
A. Sector Description  .........................................   1
B. Key Issues of Transition   .....................................   3
C. Higher Education Sector  .....................................   5
D. Government Objectives and Strategy   .............................   6
II. BANK STRATEGY AND LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS BANK
EXPERIENCE   .............................................    8
A. Bank Strategy  ............................................    8
B. Lessons from  Experience .....................................   9
III.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND  DESCRIPTION  ............................    11
A. Project Background  .......................................    11
B. Project Objectives  ........................................    11
C. Project Description   .......................................    11
D. Environmental Aspects  .....................................    16
E. Participation, Poverty and Impact on Women  .......................    16
IV. PROJECT STATUS, ADMINISTRATION, EVALUATION AND SUPERVISION  .....  18
A. Status of Project Preparation   .................................    18
B. Project Administration   .....................................    18
C. Monitoring and Evaluation ...................................    19
D. World Bank Supervision  ....................................    20
V. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS ... .....  21
A. Project Costs  ...........................................    21
B. Project Financing   ........................................    22
C. Procurement ............................................    23
D. Disbursement ...........................................    30
E. Financial Management  .....................................    31
VI.   BENEFITS AND  RISKS  ..........................................    33
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND  RECOMMENDATIONS  ...........................   36
A. AGREEMENTS REACHED   .................................    36
B. RECOMMENDATIONS  ....................................    37



Annexes
A       Higher Education Innovation Fund  ..................................   38
B       School Textbook Reform Component .................................   65
C       Pilot Textbook Procurement Fund ...................................   78
D       Project Administration- Organization of the NTF  .........................   85
E       Performance Monitoring Indicators ..................................   89
F       Supervision Plan   .............................................   92
G       Project Cost Estimates ..........................................   94
H       Project Implementation Schedule  ...................................   97
I       Estimated Disbursement Schedule ...................................  110
J       Selected Documents Available in the Project File  .........................  111
TABLES
Table 5.1 Estimated Cost by Components .21
Table 5.2 Financing Plan .23
Table 5.3 Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements .25
Table 5.4 Disbursement Categories and Percentages .30
MAP
IBRD No. 27188R



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
EDUCATION INNOVATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Implementing Agency:   National Training Foundation
Beneficiary:           Higher Education Institutions, and Primary/Secondary schools
Poverty:               not applicable
Amount:                US$  71 million
Terms:                 Payable in seventeen years, including five years of grace, at the standard
interest rate for LIBOR based US Dollar single currency loans.
Commitment Fee:        0.75 % on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver.
Financing Plan:        See para. 5.6
Staff Appraisal Report:  16267 RU
Map:                   IBRD 27188R
Project ID Number:     RU PA 8825






RUSSIAN FEDERATION
EDUCATION INNOVATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1    The education system in Russia has been characterized by high enrollment in primary and
secondary education, impressive levels of literacy, equitable access for girls and excellent academic
achievements particularly in mathematics and natural sciences. However, in the centrally planned
economy, there was an inefficient use of resources, overstaffing and high unit costs, together with
duplication and fragmented programs. There were few opportunities for non-university, post-secondary
education. The system had weak incentives for teaching independent enquiry, critical thinking, or
problem solving.
1.2    As early as 1985, and increasingly after 1990, it was recognized in Russia that reform of
education was needed to develop informed citizens capable of participating in a democratic society as well
as to give workers more marketable skills. In the intervening years much has been accomplished to
reorient the system by transferring a number of administrative and fiscal responsibilities from the center
to the regions and by granting greater freedom and incentives to regions to increase efficiency, change
the content of curricula, promote pedagogic initiatives and achieve greater responsiveness to the demands
of the evolving labor market.
1.3   If Russia is to restore economic growth and achieve competitiveness in an international market,
it is essential that the education system be strengthened to improve the quality of teaching and to reorient
management structures to take into account the new responsibilities of federal and regional authorities for
decision making and finance in the education sector. The legacy of centralized control, rigidity and lack
of accountability continue to constrain efforts at innovation and greater efficiency and to hamper local
and private initiatives in education. The challenge will be to reorient the education system to encompass
the demands of a new economic system while retaining the considerable strengths and achievements of
the past in a period of severe fiscal constraint.
A. Sector Description
1.4    Structure: Education in Russia consists of 9 years of compulsory basic education (7-15 year olds).
Three types of secondary education exist: (a) general secondary education which has little or no
vocational content and is the preparation for entering higher education and other types of education; (b)
vocational education (2-3 years) geared to the preparation of skilled workers and trades; and (c) secondary
specialized education (2-4 years depending on the point of entry) offering a more theoretical curriculum
along with training in more sophisticated technical skills. Higher education consists of 535 public
institutions: 129 universities, 28 academies, and 378 colleges. In addition there are 193 non-public higher
education institutions (141 are licensed institutions). In 1992, the State Committee for Higher Education
(SCHE) suggested that Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) introduce a multilevel structure for higher
education. It divides the system into three layers consisting of a four year Bachelors program, a five year
professional certificate program, and a six year Master's program. Approximately 20 percent of
institutions have adopted this structure. This makes the length of these institutions' degree programs
roughly comparable to OECD systems, while fostering flexibility and greater efficiencies. In August
1996, the Ministry of Education and the SCHE were amalgamated into one Ministry of General and
Professional Education (MGPE).



2                                                                                 Chapter I
1.5    Enrollments: Russian education has traditionally had an enrollment of virtually 100 percent of
children of compulsory school age. After completing compulsory education, over 50 percent of school
children continue their education in general secondary schools, approximately 30 percent in vocational
schools, and approximately 20 percent in technical secondary schools. Total enrollment has declined
since the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, by 9 percent in secondary technical schools, 7 percent
in vocational schools, and 5 percent in higher education. Only in compulsory education has the number
of students increased. At the same time the size of the age cohort and the demand for higher education,
especially in skills required for new labor markets, are on the increase. If these trends continue they will
change the future demand for schooling and the need for teachers and facilities.
1.6    Basic indicators: Russia's education indicators compare favorably with OECD countries in many
respects. Participation and access have been high at the preschool and compulsory levels. Female
participation in higher education is equal to that of males. Higher education has a lower participation rate
than the OECD average. Repetition and dropout have been traditionally almost non-existent. Average
levels of achievement in mathematics and natural sciences are higher than in many OECD countries. A
large proportion of students are in higher-cost vocational and technical schools (technikums) that are
training for skills no longer relevant for the economy. Student/teacher ratios are low relative to OECD
standards at all levels.
1.7    Teachers: There are almost six million teachers in the education system. Declines in student
enrollment in some sub-sectors and the rise in demand for new skills in others have implications for
future teacher supply, skill-mix, and deployment. Low student/teacher ratios are evident at all levels of
education. They are caused by the prevalence of labor intensive, face-to-face, oral approaches to teaching
and assessment. Lecture and note-taking predominate. Team-teaching and small group discussions are
rare. Library resources and the use of independent source materials are a fraction of the norm elsewhere.
Examinations and assessments tend to be oral. This type of pedagogy is not efficient and points to a need
to invest in new teaching methods and materials to make the pedagogical process more efficient and less
labor-intensive. Teacher salaries have lagged behind other sectors. The average teacher salary was 81
percent of the average industrial wage in 1980; by 1994 it had fallen to 66 percent. The salary of a
professor fell from 219 percent of industrial wage in 1987 to 62 percent in July of 1993. As a result the
better teachers and those with skills in high demand (foreign languages, economics, survey research) are
leaving the profession. However, despite salary instability, overall employment in compulsory and higher
education appears to have increased since 1991.
1.8    Management: During the Soviet regime, control by distant Moscow-based structures, segmented
sectoral ownership, norm-based financing, and the lack of adequate school based authority characterized
education management. Much change has occurred in the structure of educational governance over the
last three years. However, the sources of authority have been many, overlapping, and of varying
legitimacy. Regional and district authorities are now responsible for financing primary and secondary
education. In the past, federal authorities were responsible for providing the entire curriculum,
pedagogical materials and equipment, and their associated expenses. With the recent establishment of
federal, regional and school-defined curricula, local authorities are assuming new responsibilities and
expenditures in this area as well as for teacher supervision and in-service training, maintenance, and
budget management. All vocational and some technical schools are financed by the MGPE; some other
technical schools are financed by the relevant sectoral ministries. In an effort to adapt to emerging labor
markets, the regional role in the finance and management of vocational schools is expected to increase.



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                     Page 3
1.9    The MGPE and 21 different federal ministries finance and manage institutions of higher
education. At the same time, regional authorities are beginning partially to finance local higher education
institutions to meet the needs of regional industries, labor markets, and tax payers. The question of
which level of public authority should manage higher education is determined by the federal law on
higher and post graduate profession education. Entrance examinations to higher education are designed
and administered differently (mostly oral with no standardization) by each of the roughly nine departments
in each of the 535 higher education institutions scattered across the country. Education Research is under
the authority of the MGPE and the Russian Academy of Education.
1.10   Expenditure: Formal spending in Russia for social protection-' (9% of GDP) is significantly
lower than expenditure levels in Eastern Europe (averaging around 14 % of GDP), but higher than in most
countries at the comparable GDP per capita level. Russia devoted 7 percent of GDP to education in the
early 1970s. This declined to 3.8 percent in 1991, 3.4 percent in 1992, rose to 4.4 percent in 1994, and
then declined again to 3.4 percent in 1995. Education expenditure has been broadly protected during the
transition period although GDP share is below many OECD countries. Because GDP has declined
precipitously since 1991, real per student spending has declined. These declines were unevenly spread
across the system, higher for pre-school and compulsory education, lower for specialized secondary and
higher education. Moreover, differences in per pupil spending between the 89 regions of the Russian
Federation are increasing. In 1994, higher education accounted for 23% of total public educational
expenditures which was low compared to some OECD countries. Compulsory education at 50 percent
was low, especially given that only 38 percent was devoted to general education while 12 percent was
allocated to vocational education. Salary expenditures are financed with increasing difficulty while non-
salary items including textbooks, equipment, capital investments and repairs have received lower priority
B. Key Issues of Transition
1.11   Lessons from international research and experience on effective school systems underline the
importance of relevant curricula and teaching and learning materials, flexible teaching approaches that
develop critical thinking and problem solving, school based autonomy and accountability in resource
management and decision making. In the past, ideology and isolation kept the Russian education system
outside these trends. Under central planning, the Russian education system operated without adequate
incentives to encourage accountability for costs and managerial efficiency. Curricula emphasized
uniformity. Governance structures catered to distant, uncoordinated federal ministries rather than to local
labor markets and needs. There are different requirements for managing an education system to produce
graduates with the type of skills to cater to the needs of a market economy and a democratic civic culture.
Government has launched an ambitious reform program to respond to these new requirements. Financial
instability and decline during the transition coupled with the legacy of past assumptions, structures,
incentives, and attitudes have slowed on-going attempts at reform. Issues central to reform of education
in Russia are summarized below.
1.12   Governance: It is envisaged that the recent changes in the structure of the MGPE will encourage
the development of education sector policy and strategy in Russia and will create a national mechanism
to lead and coordinate more in-depth technical analysis, comprehensive strategic planning, and broad
1/    Including Social Insurance (pensions, unemployment benefits), family allowances and social assistance
programs but not subsidized housing and utilities.



4                                                                                   Chapter I
public discussion and consensus for the reform of both compulsory and post-compulsory education.
1.13   Finance: The fiscal base of education is threatened because of the decline in public revenues for
education which has resulted in a steep reduction in per-student expenditures by educational level since
1991 together with an increase in costs, especially energy costs. The sector has coped with these
simultaneous expenditure decline and price increases by introducing guaranteed (protected) funding items:
wages, stipends, food, and utilities. Expenditures on items such as textbooks, equipment, capital
investments and repairs have received lower priority. Shortfalls in budgets have led to severe problems
with physical resources and school buildings are often inadequately heated and maintained. Further
reductions in expenditures on non-salary items would weaken educational effectiveness and diminish
quality. Financial shortages in the education sector have not yet resulted in major improvements in
efficiency. Student/teacher ratios remain low due to the labor-intensive, oral approaches to organizing
instruction and assessmenta'.
1.14   Equity: The emphasis on educational decentralization and diversity is creating greater inequities.
There are growing discrepancies in per pupil expenditures in compulsory education across and within the
89 regions in Russia. The existing system of education finance does not have explicit mechanisms for
compensatory funding of educational spending and redistribution of budget revenues between regions with
different fiscal bases. Consequently, variation in the access to good quality education is increasing.
1.15   Curicula and teaching methods are not yet fully responsive to the developing market economy
where a premium is placed on problem-solving, occupational flexibility, innovation and creativity in
teaching and learning and active participation in democracy. Incentives for teachers and managers to
learn new pedagogical or management skills are absent and this in turn encourages the perpetuation of
the rigid, hierarchical and inefficient system. However, in recent years there have been adjustments in
curricula accompanied by attempts to introduce choice in compulsory education. In short, there is a
growing internal potential for change in the education system which is hampered by a severe shortage of
funding for the development of curricular innovations and their dissemination.
1.16   Teachers As has been already noted, teachers have suffered badly in the transition by having
their salaries devalued and frequently paid several months in arrears while other job benefits (e.g.housing)
are also disappearing. In spite of notable loyalty and commitment to their chosen vocation, it is evident
that teachers are becoming increasingly demoralized. There is also concern about the quality of teacher
training which often permits entry to those with a low level of educational attainment and fails to preserve
professional standards through adequate retraining policies.
1.17   Examinations: As elsewhere, examinations in Russia strongly influence what is taught in schools
and, to a large extent, determine the opportunity for further study and employment. The current
mechanism for selection to higher education is inefficient and unfair. Entrance examinations are
administered differently by each department in each of 535 institutions scattered across the country. Since
there are about nine different departments in each higher education institution, there are in effect over
5000 different entrance examinations.  Students are required to appear in person.  In general,
examinations in all institutions are administered at about the same time thus preventing candidates from
2/ Teacher-student ratios vary from 1:8 to 1:16 for the primary and secondary education sectors and average
1:10 for higher education.



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                    Page 5
applying to more than one program in a given year. Except for Russian and mathematics, examinations
are generally oral. Students have no guarantee that the level of difficulty of their test is equivalent to any
other test in the same field or whether scoring criteria are comparable. Tests are designed by isolated
tradition-bound faculty and departments which may have little understanding of the new knowledge and
skill requirements of emerging labor markets. In a market economy, the pressure to enter higher
education will increase, particularly in fields of high demand. In these circumstances, the need for an
efficient, high quality, and fair method of selection to higher education will increase.
1.18   Educational Materials: A survey in schools which was carried out as part of project preparation
reveals problems of supply, "age" and content of books. The implication of the survey is that over the
next one to two years, textbooks will have to be replaced on a mass scale throughout the Russian
Federation(RF) rather than at the normal rate of 25 % per annum. The absence of competition and of
information hampers the development of new textbook content to meet new curriculum objectives and to
support economic and social reform. The current estimated need for the publication of new textbooks,
new editions and reprints of existing textbooks is difficult to estimate. However from existing data on
books supplied through the MOE in former years and the under-funding of the system since 1993 there
is now an estimated need for up to 400 million textbooks if the system is to be supplied to the specified
level. At current prices this would cost upwards of $500 million equivalent. There remains a lack of
clarity between various levels of government (and the schools) on textbook funding. In addition there
is, in some cases, a separation of the final funding agencies (the oblasts) from control over contractual
arrangements with the publishers and distributors. Placing orders through the MGPE, whether or not
against the Ministry of Finance (MOF) debits, is costly and inefficient. Over 80 % of textbook production
is still handled by the State monopoly publisher, Prosvescheniyie. There is a resulting inadequacy of
choice and sometimes of quality of books in the school system. The continuance of this monopoly, in
part dictated by the sheer size of the market and the working capital needs implied, is an obstacle to the
development of a full market-oriented system. These factors discourage the further development of a
potentially healthy private sector educational publishing industry. The current financing gap for textbooks
is only marginally assisted by emergency funds from the MOF (for the poorer regions) and is
interconnected with the MGPE's wish to reduce past indebtedness.
C. Higher Education Sector
1.19   The Higher Education sector is under pressure because of the general economic situation, the
reduction in federal budget financing and the need to modernize the curricular content and teaching
methods of HEIs. Important indications of efforts to adjust to the changing needs of the general public
for education and the needs of employers for human resources are changes in distribution of admissions
and graduations by areas of specialization, increase in the number of new private colleges which provide
training in the most wanted areas, changes in standards and the content of education. Some changes
occurred in the system of governance and management of HEIs, reflected in the consolidation of the
central structure of higher education management, the increase of academic freedom, and the introduction
of the system of election of rectors. The system responded to reduced federal budget funding by drawing
increasingly on the extra-budgetary and local budget sources. However, the reports on the Governance,
Management and Funding of Higher Education which were completed as part of the project preparation
process, demonstrate that the sector continues to suffer from a lack of clearly defined responsibilities
between governing agencies together with an incomplete legal framework, insufficient transparency in
the allocation and use of public funding and a need to modernize Higher Education course content and



6                                                                                 Chapter I
set standards for the teaching of the social sciences (particularly economics).
D. Government Objectives and Strategy
1.20   The Government is committed to strengthening the education system to ensure that all children
have access to high quality education so that each will have the opportunity to participate fully in and
contribute to Russia's economic and social development. Achieving this objective requires an education
system that is more flexible, more responsive to market signals, and more efficient in its use of resources
than at present. The strategy for education is embodied in the 1992 Education Law and the 1993 Federal
Program  for Educational Development.  The 1992 legislation emphasized curricular diversity,
decentralized finance and management of compulsory education to the regions; and diversified sources
of education finance including the legalization of private schools and institutions. The main intention
of the 1993 federal education reform were to:
*     ensure implementation of the legal and regulatory enactments to make the 1992 education law
effective;
*     develop regional capacity to finance and manage the education system;
i     adapt curricular content and pedagogy to respond to the needs of the individual, society, and
emerging local labor markets;
e     diversify the types of educational institutions and sources of finance, especially private sources,
in particular user charges in higher education and private sector participation at all levels; and
*     develop mechanisms to monitor the quality of educational inputs and outputs and to enforce
educational standards, in particular the establishment of a Federal Testing and Assessment Center
and development of Education Statistical Indicators to set national standards for educational inputs
and performance, assess students/graduates learning achievement and skills, license teachers, and
accredit and evaluate institutions and programs.
1.21   Since 1993, considerable progress has been made. A gradual decentralization of governance and
management functions has been underway. New types of education are emerging; elements of new
funding principles are being discussed. Renewal of the content of education is accelerating. Work has
been started to revise minimum standards for compulsory education. Direct ministerial administrative
control of the education system is declining. Institutional autonomy is increasing in areas of curriculum
development, selection of teaching methods, and budget management.
1.22  In August 1996, there was a reorganization of the Government in which the former State
Committee for Higher Education was combined with the former Ministry of Education into the new
MGPE. This reorganization will mean that policy making for the education sector will be unified and
strengthened. A Deputy Minister with special responsibility for the provision of textbooks and other
educational materials on a federal level was appointed.
1.23   Also in August, 1996, the Government introduced a new law on Higher and Post-Graduate
Education which clarified some ownership rights, and provided for tax-free and freehold use of land by



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                     Page 7
HEIs. User fees for Higher Education are permitted for up to 25 % of students in public HEIs. Selection
criteria for these students are different from those who do not pay for tuition. The most capable students
theoretically can be enrolled in programs financed by public funding and so an implicit subsidy for lower
income students is in place.
1.24   However, the lack of clarity about federal, regional and sub regional roles together with the
diffusion of responsibilities between federal and local authorities are weakening the capacity to drive
initiatives forward. Areas requiring continuing further reform are:
*     The financing system will need to be reformed for all levels of education, to ensure transparency,
sustainability, responsiveness to changing student demands and enhanced competition among both
old and new educational institutions.
*     Governance capacity at all levels will need to be strengthened by the introduction of measures
to consolidate the education system and to preserve consistency. Policy making capacity should
be supported through the development of educational statistics and indicators and through the
promotion of transparent financing systems. Both of these measures will lead to greater public
accountability.
*     It will be necessary to develop the accountability of compulsory education  at local levels,
including choice of curricula and educational materials. Work has been started to revise minimum
standards for compulsory education. However, lack of funding has impeded progress in this
area. There are still no approved policy guidelines to increase authority for regional governments
for curriculum and choice of textbooks.
*     The most important objectives for Vocational and Higher Education are improved quality, greater
flexibility, more involvement of regional governments and the reduction of administrative over
head costs. It is also essential to integrate better research with education. The most capable
students theoretically can be enrolled in programs financed by public funding and so an implicit
subsidy for lower income students is in place. However, there is still no system of student loans
or special supplements for low income students.
Achieving these objectives will involve considerable restructuring and consolidation over a long period
of time.
1.25   The proposed project, through its focus on the promotion of efficiencies in the teaching of social
sciences in participating HEIs and on the revision of minimum standards for compulsory education
together with the development a national program of textbook publishing reform, would constitute a
strategic first step on the part of the Bank to support key reforms in the sector.



Page 8                                                                            Chapter II
II. BANK STRATEGY AND LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS BANK EXPERIENCE
A. Bank Strategy
2.1    The objectives of the proposed Education Innovation Project (EIP) are consistent with the current
Country Assistance Strategy for Russia (October 1996) and with the framework of action envisaged for
the education sector in the Social Sector Strategy Note which would be to promote the:
(a)    clarification of responsibilities for policy development and implementation at various
levels of federal and regional government;
(b)    development of financing mechanisms,like capitation, which would relieve underfunding
in poorer regions and in non-salary expenditures, and help to link content of education
more closely to student needs;
(c)   development of curricula, teacher training, career counselling, learning materials and
other support systems more in line with the needs of the market economy and a
democratic society; and
(d)    consolidation of facilities in higher education through the establishment of demand driven
mechanisms. Meeting these reform objectives will require assistance to: (i) strengthen
policy making and strategic planning at the federal level and (ii) to stabilize education
finance, rationalize expenditure allocation, support new knowledge and skill development,
and rationalize institutional structures and functions at the regional, district, and
municipal levels.
2.2    The broad objective of education lending to Russia is to support Government efforts to: (a)
maintain essential service levels, (b) increase the efficiency and equity of service delivery, (c) develop
appropriate knowledge and skills critical for economic transition and social development, and (d) ensure
the financial sustainability of the education system.
2.3    There are currently three projects with education and training components in the lending program
that support these objectives. The Management and Financial Training (Ln. 3824-Ru.) (MFT) and the
Employment Services and Social Protection (Ln. 8822-Ru.) (ESSP) projects address the development of
human capital in Russia and emphasize adult training in short-cycle courses, where labor market needs
could be readily identified. The MFT Project introduced the concept of demand-led training through the
creation of the National Training Foundation (NTF) to define training strategies, identify priorities, and
allocate training funds on a competitive basis. The third project, the Community Social Infrastructure
Project (Ln. 4009-Ru.) (CSIP), which was approved by the Board in April 1996, addresses urgent social
expenditure issues including education. It includes compulsory schools as a high priority for project
finance and focuses on the need to rehabilitate and improve school facilities. It is a pilot project in two
regions, with the expectation of eventual replication on a wider basis through further Bank lending
projects or Government financing.
2.4    These three projects reflect the alternative approaches to project design the Bank is pursuing in
social sector lending in Russia. These include: (a) institution building projects, (b) demonstration projects



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                   Page 9
at the regional level, and (c) development of federal/local systems of financial transfers. The ESSP and
MFT projects are institution building activities, although they both directly deliver programs and services
too. Both of these projects will provide practical experience on what kinds of institutional structures and
implementation arrangements work in Russia. The proposed Education Innovation Project would build
directly on the experience of the MFT by utilizing the National Training Foundation as an organization
to administer this project. The CSIP is a replicable, demonstration type activity and will provide an
information base on approaches to improving services at the regional level.
2.5    The Education Innovation Project would be the first Bank financed project devoted exclusively
to the education sector and will build upon the knowledge and experience gained in the previous Bank
financed social sector projects in Russia. It constitutes a limited first step in revitalizing the education
sector through the creation of an Innovation Fund (IF) to reform the teaching of social sciences and
through the reform of the current textbook publishing system.
B. Lessons from Experience
2.6   Past Bank experience indicates that effective implementation and longer-term sustainability of
education projects depend strongly on the improvement of educational management at all governance
levels as well as on the establishment of effective systems to manage sector and school level information,
project monitoring information, and procurement and delivery activities. In the Europe and Central Asia
(ECA) Region, projects in Hungary and Romania address many of the same issues and objectives as the
proposed Project and offer lessons for project design in the transition economies.
2.7    Higher Education Innovation Fund: The Bank has considerable experience in the use of
innovation type funds within higher education projects in Hungary, Indonesia, Tunisia, Brazil, Argentina.
Generic experience with funds indicates the importance of: (a) careful phasing to match the pace and
scale of the project; (b) building management capability; (c) building ownership and commitment through
beneficiary participation in the design of the project; (d) flexibility to respond to change at federal and
local level. One lesson of both Bank and European Union Education projects in Central and Eastern
Europe which is particularly relevant to the present project is that incentives, rather than direct control,
are the key to reform. Core budget funding, to be distributed to higher education institutions under an
objective and transparent system, encourages responsiveness to the changing market demand and provides
an ongoing incentive for efficiency improvement.
2.8    The Hungary Human Resources Project (Ln. 3313-HU, FY91) provided discretionary investment
funding to individual institutions through three competitive rounds between competing Higher Education
Institutes and launched a large number of new educational programs, including specific curricula and
changed teaching methods. However, the impact of the project was weakened through fragmentation of
much of the funding across institutions, resulting in small funding amounts and limited impact. In
addition, there was insufficient protection for preserving the integrity of the peer review process for
evaluating funding proposals. Guidelines relating to conflicts of interest were not well developed or
monitored nor were evaluation procedures designed to discourage wholesale reallocation of funding
recommendations, with the result that peer review had too little impact on decision making. These issues
have been addressed in the design of the procedures in the proposed Innovation Fund where the size of
the grants would be of sufficient magnitude to act as a catalyst to some reform and where the design of
the eligibility criteria and conditions of award, will be the subject of ongoing scrutiny by Expert



Page 10                                                                          Chapter II
Committees comprising at least one international expert as well as a broad range of Russian expertise.
2.9   School Textbook Reform Component: The textbook component of the Romania Education
project (Ln. 3724-RO, FY93) has similar broad objectives to the textbook component in this proposed
project, e.g. to reform textbook quality and to encourage private publishers to compete for the
development of new textbooks. The project encountered some initial problems related to the existing
monopoly of state publishers; the problem was addressed by privatizing state publishers and then
allowing them to compete for contracts on the same level as other private publishers which is a feature
of this proposed project
2.10   There are also several generic lessons from implementing Bank financed projects in Russia.
These include the importance of: (a) strong Government ownership; (b) consistent counterparts with
authority for preparation; (c) inter-ministerial coordination; (d) including local consultants and institutions
in all stages of project preparation; (e) setting up Project Implementation Units (PIUs) at an early stage
with experienced advisors to facilitate efficient project management; and (f) early detailed attention to
procurement and other implementation issues.
2.11   The proposed Project has closely followed each of the above generic lessons: (a) the Government
established a Working Group as the Bank's counterpart in project preparation; (b) the preparation process
has benefited from the same Government officials working as counterparts with the Bank and also from
the same team of experts working for the Bank in Russia; (c) the Working Group has been chaired by
the Ministry of Economy (MOE) and has had representatives from the MGPE and the MOF as well as
from potential beneficiaries; (d) preparation of this project to date has been highly participatory and the
fmal stages of project design were agreed in a workshop format where all counterparts and potential
beneficiaries were present; and (e) recent experience with the County Portfolio Performance Review
(CPPR) has been taken into account, specifically the lessons relating the need to strengthen institutional
capacity to manage projects. The Government has advised that the NTF would administer the project.
The project would therefore benefit from the NTF's experience with the Bank's procedures, including
handling of procurement and disbursement.



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                Page II
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
A. Project Background
3.1    Building on the dialogue of the last few years, and on previous Bank experience with educational
projects, the World Bank team, together with Russian colleagues developed a project which would impose
modest elements of reform and serve as the basis for future lending in the sector. The proposed project
would pilot reforms and would include a Higher Education component with a demand responsive
emphasis on improving social science teaching 3' through the creation of an Innovation Fund, and a
School Textbook Reform component which would support better quality and choice of textbooks. The
rationale for including these two components is that the Government of Russia (GOR) has consistently
requested support in these areas over several years of dialogue with the Bank and during two workshops
and these components would represent a first step on which future lending operations could be built.
B. Project Objectives
3.2   The objectives of the project are to:
(a)   improve, in selected Higher Education Institutions, the guality and quantity of social
science education and encourage better governance systems and efficiency in the use of
resources; and
(b)   improve the gualitv and availability of school textbooks as a major contribution to
educational reform.
C. Project Description
3.3   The proposed project would have three components: (a) Higher Education Innovation Fund; (b)
School Textbook Reform; and (c) Pilot Textbook Procurement Fund.
Part A - Higher Education Innovation Fund Component ($50 million)
3.4   This component would encourage the reform of selected Higher Education Institutes and would
demonstrate how to effect considerable savings to the federal budget without loss of quality by, for
example, amalgamating non-efficient institutions; improving teaching methods; encouraging reduced
teacher-student ratios, strengthening social science education, promoting greater efficiency in use of public
funds at HEI level through increased accountability and transparency.
3.5   The Higher Education system in Russia is a major consumer of resources and improved
governance and management of resources would significantly improve the quality of Higher Education
and use of resources in the sector. Social sciences teaching, as is currently understood in OECD
economies, is in urgent need of improvement and development, reflecting its absence in former times.
Target support for innovation in the content, planning finance and management of higher education
reflects the political prominence and importance of this sub-sector and its role in providing trained human
3/     See Annex A for definition.



Page 12                                                                       Chapter III
capital for the transition.
3.6   It was agreed at an early stage in project preparation with representatives of the GOR that the
focus of the Bank's intervention would be on the improvement of the quality of education within social
sciences and on the reform of the governance and management of HEIs. This decision was made by the
Government because social sciences are seen as key disciplines in need of in the transition to a market
economy and in education for a democratic society. It was recognized that these disciplines need a great
deal of development in qualitative terms. There was also a wish to improve the governance and
management of HEIs to benefit all aspects of higher education.
3.7   This component would establish an Innovation Fund focussing on international best practice
where applicable and on the development of social sciences and governance and management reform.
The IF would offer partly repayable grants based on the result of a competitive process between higher
education institutions. Conditions of application and selection criteria would be publicized and awards
would be determined in a transparent manner.
3.8   The Innovation Fund would be a non-profit making, grant dispersing body in which the main
stakeholder is the higher education sector of Russia which is fully represented at all levels of management
of the IF. Other major stakeholders (MGPE, MOE and MOF) are represented in the governance of the
IF. Grants from the Innovation Fund are to be used in a manner consistent with agreed principles (see
paras. 3.13, 3.14).
3.9   There would be three "windows" of support within the IF. Each of these windows addresses
certain aspects of reform in HE. Programs supported within these windows would not be considered as
separate. They would be complementary to each other and mutually supportive. Each of the three
windows would support sub-projects which would have a different focus and target group: Window I
focuses on sub-projects to improve the teaching of social sciences linked to improved governance and
efficiency of management in universities which major in teaching in these subjects; Window 2 focuses
on sub-projects to improve governance and efficiency of management and is available to selected HEIs;
and Window 3 focuses on sub-projects to improve academic linkages.
Window 1:   Social Science Institutions Capacity Building. This Window would support Social
Science Development Schemes (SSDSs) by partially repayable grants allocated on a
competitive selection basis for improvements in the teaching of social sciences linked to
reform of governance and management at the institutional level. Up to 70% of the total
fund would be allocated to this window.
Window 2:   Governance Reform. This Window would support Structural Reform Schemes (SRSs)
by partially repayable grants allocated on a competitive selection basis for governance
reform efforts. The proportion of the total fund allocated to this window would be up
to 22% of the total fund.
Window 3:   Social Sciences Academic Support. This window  would support Social Sciences
Academic Award Schemes (SSASSs), academic co-operation and co-ordination of
professional activity designed to support the development of structural reform and the
social sciences (seminars, visiting scholarships, the exchange of professorships, scientific



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                Page 13
journals, professional associations, the development of networks and lateral connections
in the social sciences supported in the project). The amount allocated to this window is
not to exceed 8% of the total amount of the fund.
3.10   The PIU would invite applications for partial repayable grants to finance SSDSs and SRSs,
priority would be given to schemes which contain the following features:
*     institutional development: the extent to which the schemes contribute to or require positive reform
of management and/or administrative structures and procedures;
*     devolved decision-making within the HEI could be a feature of each SSDS and SRS submitted.
This might show the extent to which the SSDSs and SRSs provide incentives and opportunities
for junior teaching staff to engage in effective decision-making;
*     efficient funding formulae: illustrating how the schemes allow or promote the development of
funding formulae (for example, staff salaries, library resources, course delivery) which are based
on measures of output;
*     basis for future reform and for the future academic development within the institution should be
present in any scheme;
*     flexibility which recognizes not only the numerical variable of supply and demand but also the
changing content of any discipline should be evident within the scheme;
v     a review of teaching methods, including a review of staff/student ratios and the use of appropriate
technology, (and its influence on the HEI's physical resources) would form an essential element
in a successful scheme.
3.11  It is anticipated that for Window 1, grants would range from US$ 80,000 to US$ 3.0 million;
approximately 10 to 15 of these awards would be between US$ 2.0 and 3.0 million and the remainder
of smaller size. For Window 2, it is anticipated that there would be about 55 awards with an average
value of US$ 150,000 and for Window 3 approximately 50 awards of up to US$ 100,000.
3.12  Implementation aspects of the IF: The Innovation Fund would be administered by the National
Training Foundation which would act as a PIU, empowered by the GOR to administer the Loan in
accordance with the objectives of the project (para. 4.3). The operation of the Innovation Fund would
be governed by the Board of Directors of the NTF which would represent the interests of the
stakeholders: that is, the MGPE, the MOF, the MOE and the academic community. Expert Committees
from appropriate disciplines would be established for the purpose of assessing and recommending awards
to the Board of Directors of the NTF. The Board of Directors would, inter alia, confirm proposals to
amend the operating principles of the IF; and confirm that awards made are consistent with the operating
principles of the IF and Loan Agreement. Procedures for the operations of the Fund would be agreed
and incorporated into Volume III of the Operations Manual of the NTF. The reorganized staffing plan
of the NTF would make available such technical advice and assistance as may be required to carry out
these extended functions.



Page 14                                                                        Chapter III
3.13 The essential award criteria to be applied to proposals from HEIs are listed in Annex A. The
objectives of the award criteria concern the worthwhileness of the proposed scheme against such measures
as: innovativeness, efficiency, transportability, value for money, additionality, market relevance. It is
anticipated that expenditures which would attract funding from the IF for improvements in the quality of
teaching in economics and social sciences would include: program development costs; consultancy
services; development of new textbooks; accreditation and certification arrangements; improvement of
libraries and of information technology facilities; staff training and retraining; and research expenditure.
3.14   Annex A contains additional detailed information on the IF, including proposed administrative
arrangements. Eligibility criteria for participating institutions, numbers and membership of the Expert
Committees, content of application documentation and award criteria were confirmed during appraisal.
The Applications Procedures Documentation, including eligibility criteria for the selection of HEIs and
draft Agreement between the participating HEIs and the MOF containing, inter alia, the cost recovery
scheme have been reviewed and will be finalized for inclusion in the Operations Manual (para. 4.6).
Part B - School Textbook Reform Component (US$20 million)
3.15   This component would be a modest step in addressing the complexities of supply and demand
in the textbook market in Russia. It would improve the quality and supply of textbooks through (a) the
provision of training and equipment for both the MOE and regional educational administrations to
strengthen educational standards and create new textbook titles; and (b) the establishment of electronic
information and book ordering systems which would provide equity of access to timely information on
new and improved textbooks throughout the RF for schools, parents and students.
Specific Project Objectives:
i     To establish a logical system of authority, responsibility and accountability of, respectively, the
Federal and Regional Education Authorities concerning the quality, choice, purchase and supply
of textbooks and other educational literature for second cycle schools;
*     To establish a system for textbook quality monitoring including Federal Set renewal and
replacement and extension consistent with increased choice of books and other educational
options;
*     To establish a nationwide market information infrastructure that would ensure directed and
rational decision-making in textbook ordering together with real time interaction between
customers and producers;
*     To train education managers and practitioners in the use of the textbook ordering and information
system.
3.16    These objectives would be accomplished through four sub-components:
Subcomponent 1: Textbook Quality Improvement
3.17   This subcomponent would finance:



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                 Page 15
(a)   the establishment of a valid set of National Education Standards and the testing of these
Standards as the essential long-term basis for the creation of the "Federal Set" of
textbooks; and
(b)   the evaluation and validation of textbooks and other educational materials through
structural, managerial and technical reform of the Federal Expert Council.  The
Government has agreed in principle with the Bank's recommendations on the
restructuring of the Federal Expert Council.
Subcomponent Two: Renewal of the Federal List
3.18  (a)    This subcomponent would finance an analysis of the Federal List of textbooks and
educational literature recommended for use in schools. This analysis would identify the
courses and disciplines currently not supported by textbooks or which urgently require
updating. It would permit re-evaluation of older textbooks and their possible exclusion
from the List as well as those which fail to meet modern requirements or are not
supported by the necessary teachers' and optional materials or do not comprise a
methodologically complete set within a discipline; and
(b)    This subcomponent would address the need for "new generation" textbooks through the
application of grants on a competitive selection basis for manuscript development by
authors and for pre-press and promotional/informational work by publishers. The
selection procedures and contract arrangements for the award of grants have been
reviewed and will be finalized for inclusion into the Operations Manual (para. 4.6).
Subcomponent Three: Textbook Information System
3.19   This subcomponent has two main elements aimed at improving textbook choice and would
finance:
(a)    a single database of all relevant educational books in print for the Russian school system
and the provision of an annually updated "Textbooks-in-Print" catalog in traditional and
electronic formats; and
(b)   the design and installation of a screen based information delivery service, initially for
textbooks and educational materials, covering the entire Federation at least to the level
of each Raion Education Department. The TOR for the feasibility study and systems plan
have been reviewed and will be finalized for inclusion in the Operations Manual (para.
4.6).
Sub-component Four: Training
3.20   This subcomponent would support training programs for regional and local education
administrators in new market-led textbook ordering and information systems.
3.21   Annex B contains an analysis of the reform and development needs for school textbooks in Russia



Page 16                                                                       Chapter III
together with additional detailed information on this component.
Part C - Pilot Textbook Procurement Fund Component (US$10.0 million)
3.22   The objective of the fund would be to assist selected oblasts to obtain textbooks in a manner
which would contribute towards: (a) overcoming barriers to entry by assuring payments to publishers and
by structuring payments in a manner that addresses working capital requirements; (b) the more
competitive selection of textbooks and the eventual demonopolization of the textbook publishing industry;
(c) speeding up the development and selection of new, more appropriate texts for secondary schools; and
(d) the creation of a sustainable system of funding for textbook supply for the secondary education
system.
3.23   School textbooks and learning materials would be procured through the Pilot Textbook
Procurement Fund. The MOF would on-lend the funds to participating oblasts with repayment to the
MOF through an agent bank. This would establish a revolving fund for future on-lending to oblasts by
the MOF. Annex C contains, inter alia, further details about this component. The procedure for the
selection of the regions and the on-lending arrangements including procedures for the future operation
of the revolving fund have been reviewed and will be finalized for inclusion in the Operations Manual
(para 4.6).
D. Environmental Aspects
3.24   This is a category "C" project. The proposed project has a focus on the reform of social science
teaching in Higher Education Institutions and on the improvement of textbook choice and quality to
include the development of new titles and selection processes. No adverse environmental consequences
are anticipated.
E. Participation, Poverty and Impact on Women
Participation
3.25    During the preparation of the Higher Education component over 130 individuals, including
students, were interviewed in a range of Higher Education Institutions. Equally, during project
preparation, numerous surveys and studies were carried out in a range of oblasts from the Far East to
European Russia to determine the needs of local administrations and parents groups for new and better
textbooks. Feedback from the surveys and interviews was used for project design. Project preparation
was highly participatory. Two residential workshops were held, one at project identification stage and
the other during the pre-appraisal mission. Approximately 60 key stakeholders from Moscow and the
Regions attended each workshop. In addition, there were numerous working groups composed of
potential beneficiaries whose recommendations about key sector issues were also factored into project
design. Competitive processes in both textbook selection and by the HEIs will ensure that the project
would remain relevant to the needs of the education sector during implementation.



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                               Page 17
Poverty
3.26  There is no overt focus on poverty in the proposed project. However, by improving the human
capital stock which will be necessary for sustainable long term growth, investment in education does
contribute to poverty alleviation.
Impact on Women
3.27   Access to education in Russia is not denied to any individual regardless of gender or of ethnic
background. However, the proposed project would help to ensure that access to high quality educational
materials and entry to HEIs is made available to all individuals in spite of geographical or material
disadvantages.



Page 18                                                                       Chapter IV
IV. PROJECT STATUS, ADMINISTRATION, EVALUATION AND SUPERVISION
A. Status of Project Preparation
4.1    Early establishment of an Education Working Group and support given to the Group by the MOF
has allowed the project to reach an advanced stage of preparation. Additionally, two Japanese financed
PHRD Grants (Grant TF023070 dated September 30, 1993, administrated by the World Bank and Grant
TF029679, dated October 18, 1996, administrated by the MOF) have advanced the process. Funds from
the Grants, included the preparation of an education sector study (Russia: Education in Transition,
December 1995) and its dissemination workshop, which in particular, helped to strengthen the overall
policy dialogue and working relationships with the MGPE, MOF, and other education agencies. In
addition, detailed preparation studies were produced which form the basis of project design. Recently,
another very productive two-day participatory workshop was held during the pre-appraisal mission. This
workshop was attended by about 60 participants, representing the MOF, MGPE, MOE, the Duma
Education Committee, Rectors of Universities, Representatives of Regional Governments, Publishers, the
Education Working Group, and World Bank (WB) staff. The workshop resulted in, inter alia, a review
and refinement of the design of the components of the project and proposed financing and
implementations arrangements.
4.2   To further advance project preparation, a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was approved on
April 26, 1997 in the amount of US$1.0 million to support, inter alia, the following essential preparatory
activities: Part A: (i) public information about the availability of Project funds, aimed at potentially
eligible HEIs in numerous regions of the Russian Federation; (ii) a pre-qualification exercise among HEIs
which would also assist with Grant Application Procedures through workshops and training; and (iii)
selection of members for the Expert Committees so that these committees would be in place, to begin the
process of awarding grants. Part B: (i) analysis of the current position on National Standards and Tests;
(ii) early development of principles and functions of the Federal Expert Council (FEC) to assist with
eventual restructuring of the FEC under the Project; (iii) an analysis of the Federal List and the selection
procedures for recipients of grants under the Project (authors and publishers) for the development of new
textbooks; (iv) initial data collection for educational materials catalog; and (v) a feasibility study to carry
out design of the computerized textbook information network. The appointment of additional staff to the
NTF to manage the project, technical assistance to strengthen organizational arrangements, and the cost
of essential administration costs would be funded from the PPF.
B. Project Administration
Project Administration
4.3   The NTF would administer the Project on behalf of the MOF. It would be responsible for
ensuring that the Agreement between the Government and the WB would be carried out in an efficient
and effective manner and would ensure a common and consistent approach regarding the implementation
of the project by all participating entities. The NTF would act on behalf of the MOF in all routine
matters pertaining to the administration of the project. It would, inter alia, act as the secretariat of the
Expert Committees, administer the Special Account, manage and monitor all procurement activities
including the signing of contracts (HEIs and Regions may be authorized to sign for tax exemption
purposes, etc.), submit requests for authorized payments and withdrawals from the Loan proceeds for the



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                Page 19
consolidation and for transmission of all reports and other applicable correspondence to the WB.
4.4   The NTF was originally developed with financing for the Bank's Management and Training
Project (Loan No. 3824-RU dated April 25, 1995) with co-financing from the Swiss Government. It was
established under a Founding Agreement, dated September 7, 1994, as a non-governmental, non-profit
organization and was registered by the Ministry of Justice of the Russian Federation on September 29,
1994 (Registration No. YuR-8)]. Its activities are governed by the Russian Federation laws; Russia's
inter-governmental agreements; the Founding Agreement and Charter; and the Foundation's internal
regulations, which have been reviewed by WB staff and found satisfactory. The NTF's original mandate
under the Management and Training Project is not expected to be affected by its role in the administration
of this project.
4.5    Key staff of the NTF required to assist the Executive Director in the administration of this project
are as follows: for Part A of the project: an Innovation Fund Senior Program Officer and three (3)
Program Officers; for Parts B and C of the project: a Senior Program Officer and three (3) Program
Officers. Also assistance would be provided by a Finance Officer and a Procurement Officer. Annex
D contains details of the NTF organizational arrangements. The Government has confirmed that: (a)
NTF would be legally authorized to administer the project and would present the draft agreement between
the MOF and NTF (for review by the WB) by not later than September 1997; and (b) MOF and WB
agreed on: (i) the NTF's organizational arrangements; it's terms of reference; and staffing; and (ii) that
the WB would be consulted on any changes in the organization that could affect timely implementation,
including any changes in the key staff of the NTF. A Condition of Loan Effectiveness would be that
the NTF would be fully operational which would include the legal establishment and authorization by the
MOF for the NTF to administer the project on MOF's behalf and appointment of the key staff (i.e., the
NTF Coordination Agreement has been duly executed by the Borrower and NTF).
4.6   The NTF would be responsible for modifying the existing NTF Operational Manual and
developing Volume III pertaining to the proposed project, containing eligibility criteria and appraisal,
approval and supervision rules and procedures for the grants and reimbursable programs, as well as other
administrative rules to be followed by the NTF in the carrying out of the project. Modifications to the
existing NTF Operational Manual reflecting changes required for this proposed project were reviewed.
Further review of, inter alia, the Sub-loan and Sub-project agreements as contained in Volume III would
be undertaken and would again be reviewed by the WB. In agreement with the WB, the Manual would
be updated by the NTF as may be deemed appropriate during the implementation of the project. A
Condition of Loan Effectiveness would be the adoption of the Operational Manual by the NTF.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
Project Monitoring
4.7    Annex E contains the key Performance Monitoring Indicators to be used in the monitoring and
evaluation of the project. Agreement has been reached on the indicators and methods to be used for the
monitoring and evaluation of the proposed project.



Page 20                                                                       Chapter IV
Quarterly Reports
4.8    Quarterly progress reports would be submitted to the WB by the NTF. Each participating agency
of the project would prepare its own report for consolidation by the NTF into a single report. These
reports would be submitted by not later than two (2) months after the end of each quarter of the calendar
year following Loan Effectiveness. The formats would be mutually agreed upon prior to the date of the
first submission and would be modified as deemed appropriate during the implementation of the project.
Mid-Term Report
4.9    A mid-term report would be prepared and submitted to the WB by the NTF. The report would
be submitted about March 2000 which would review, inter alia, the objectives and status of project
implementation as compared with the original plan.
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
4.10   An ICR would be submitted to the WB by the NTF upon completion of the project and in any
event not later than six (6) months after the final disbursement of the Loan proceeds. Each participating
agency would prepare its own report for consolidation by the NTF into a single ICR. Included in the
ICR would be: an assessment on the execution and initial operation of the project; its costs and benefits
derived or to be derived; the performance of the Borrower and the WB and other agencies involved,
regarding their respective obligations and accomplishments; and lessons learned. Included also would
be the plans for future operation of the programs which have been financed under the project and
indicators for the monitoring and evaluation of future operations.
D. World Bank Supervision
4.11   This is the first WB financed education project in the Russian Federation with the expectation that
it would have long term effects in improved efficiency and effectiveness in the operation of the Higher
Education system and in the upgrading and improved supply of textbooks for compulsory education.
Consequently, it is important that concentrated attention be given to supervision of the project in the early
stages of implementation. The first supervision is scheduled for June 1997, and would include a small
"Launch" workshop for those involved directly with project implementation. A larger "Launch"
workshop will be held in September/October 1997 to include the Educational community. Supervision
in the first two (2) following years would consist of missions approximately every four months, followed
by a mid-term review mission, and every six months thereafter, followed by a ICR mission. Annex F
contains the Supervision Plan which provides full details on the planned supervision requirements.
4.12   The Human Resource Staff of the WB Moscow Resident Mission would provide day-to-day
support on educational issues, inter alia, and other Resident staff would provide support dealing with
procurement and disbursements requests and other relevant matters during the project implementation
period.



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                     Page 21
V. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Project Costs
Summary of Project Costs
5.1    The cost of the project is estimated at US$87.0 million, net of duties and taxes. Duties and taxes
are estimated at US$9.6 million equivalent for a total project cost of US$96.6 million. The estimated
cost and foreign exchange by components are shown in Table 5.1 below. Annex G contains detailed
project cost estimates by type of expenditures.
Table 5.1 Estimated Cost by Components
US$ Million
Proiect Components          Local         Foreign        Total         % Foreign     % of
Cost          TOtI Ccst
Part A. Higher Education Innovation Fund:
1. Social Science Reform   18.85         16.15         35.00         46%            40%
2. Governance Reform       6.35           3.65         10.00          37%           12%
3. Social Sciences
Academic Support      2.30          1.20         3.50           34%            4%
4. Expert Committees       0.80           0.70         1.50           47%           2%
Sub-Total Part A     28.30         21.70         50.00          43%           58%
Part B. School Textbook Reform:
1. Textbook Quality
Improvement           1.11          0.29          1.40          21%            1%
2. Renewal of Federal
List                  3.66          0.44          4.10          11%            5%
3. Textbook Information
System                5.29          8.21          13.50         61%           15%
4. Training                0.90           0.10          1.00          10%            1%
Sub-Total Part B     10.96          9.04         20.00          45%           22%
Part C. Pilot Textbook Procurement Fund
9.00          1.00          10.00         10%           12%
Project Administration:      5.60          1.40          7.00          20%            8%
TOTAL (net of duties
and taxes)                  53.86         33.14          87.00          38%          100%
Duties and Taxes:     9.60          --            9.60          0%             10%
TOTAL (including duties
and taxes)                  63.46         33.14          96.60         34%



Page 22                                                                       Chapter V
Basis of Cost Estimates
5.2    Cost estimates for Civil Works, Goods (computers and related hardware and software;
teaching/learning materials including textbooks, inter alia) and for Services consisting of local and foreign
Consultants, Seminars, Workshops, Study Tours and Fellowship Training have been derived from recent
experience from ongoing WB financed projects and from similar projects financed by other development
agencies in the Russian Federation. Costs for consultants have been estimated on the basis of cost of fees
and, as applicable, accommodation and subsistence in the Russian Federation and including transportation
and translation and interpretation services.
Foreign Exchange Component
5.3   The foreign exchange component of US$33.1 million represents 38% of the project cost, net of
duties and taxes. The foreign exchange component was estimated as follows: (a) Civil Works, 10%; (b)
Goods, 40%; (c) Services: (i) foreign consultants, 100% and local consultants 10%; (ii) Seminars,
Workshops, 10%; (iii) Overseas Study Tours and Fellowships, 100%; and (d) Administrative Expenses,
20%.
Contingency Allowances
5.4    Contingencies are not included in the project cost as all components would be subject to an agreed
maximum allocation. The status of the allocations would be included as a part of the quarterly reports
and adjustments made between the allocations, as may be deemed appropriate, after review by the WB.
Duties and Taxes
5.5   The project would be subject to duties and taxes, estimated at US$9.6 million equivalent. For
imported goods, an average of 20% of the estimated cost has been used to calculate custom duties. VAT,
for both imported and locally procured goods, has been calculated at 20%. It is however anticipated that
the HEIs would receive some tax relief for instructional related goods. Project costs include an average
of 25% (maximum of 30%) for personal income tax for local consulting services (individuals). Tax on
consultants originating outside of Russia with contracts exceeding 183 days in a 12 month period, is
estimated at about 40% of total contract amount (20% VAT on contract amount plus 20% local income
tax). Income taxes on foreign consultants on short term assignments (less than 183 days per annum),
would not normally be applicable and has not been included. The Government has advised that each
participating entity would be responsible for the payment of all applicable duties and taxes and such
requirement would be clearly set forth in the sub-project and sub-loan agreements.
B. Project Financing
Financing Plan
5.6   The proposed Loan of US$71.0 million would finance 100% of the foreign exchange component
(US$33.1 million) and about 70% (US$37.9 million) of local costs, net of duties and taxes. The
Government, through participating entities, would provide US$16.0 million equivalent, representing
agreed local cost sharing and about US$9.6 million equivalent of duties and taxes. The financial plan
is shown in Table 5.2 below.



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                      Page 23
Table 5.2 Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Local         Foreign       Total   % of Total
Costs         Costs                 Project Costs
Government                                 16.00         ---            16.00      18 %
IBRD                                       37.86         33.14          71.00      82 %
Total PROJECT COSTS (net of duties & taxes):  53.86      33.14          87.00      100 %
duties & taxes                             9.60          ---            9.60       ---
Total PROJECT COSTS (inclusive of duties & taxes):                      96.60
Administrative Cost (Incremental Operating Costs)
5.7    The Administrative cost of NTF (i.e., incremental operating costs) would include staff salaries
and allowances and social charges for local staff; costs of consultants (including a procurement advisor,
if required) as deemed essential for the administration of the project. Included would be the costs of
annual project audits; bank charges and fees; training; office rent; renovation/maintenance of office
facilities, utilities; communication charges (including international telephone calls and facsimile
transmissions); miscellaneous office equipment and consumable supplies; maintenance of office
equipment; and local and international transport related to the project and other administrative costs as
may be agreed. Administrative costs of the NTF would be based on an annual budget reviewed by the
WB. All works, goods and services would be procured in accordance with the procedures for works,
goods and services described below and as set forth in the Loan Agreement. The NTF would include,
as a separate part of the quarterly reports, an update of its expenditures for review by the WB.
Recurrent Cost Implications and Sustainability
5.8    The project will provide incentives for improved efficiency in selected HEIs and will create the
basis for improving the quality and provision of textbooks to the compulsory education system. The cost
recovery system whereby competing HEIs would repay 20% of grants to the Ministry of Finance
introduces the incentive for these institutions to improve their internal efficiency, reduces the dependance
of project activities on the government budget, and contributes to the incremental operating costs of the
NTF (approximately $1.1 million per year for six years). However, there is no guarantee that project
related administration of the NTF would be financially sustainable beyond the life of the project.
Therefore, if at the Mid Term Review of the Project it is determined that project activities should
continue beyond the life of the Project, appropriate cost recovery measures would have to be instituted.
C. Procurement
5.9    The NTF would have administrative/oversight responsibility for all procurement activities for
works, goods and services financed from the proceeds of the Loan.



Page 24                                                                      Chapter V
Summary of Procurement Procedures
5.10  Procurement of works, goods and services would be in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines,
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995 (revised January and August 1996)
and "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" dated August, 1981. Works and Goods would grouped to the extent practicable to
encourage competitive bidding. Procurement procedures would be as indicated in Table 5.3 below.
Annex H contains the Project Implementation Schedule, including a Procurement Plan.
Status of Procurement Preparation
5.11   No major procurement of works or goods is expected in the first 9-12 months of the project. It
is expected that selection of consultants including, in particular, the establishment of the various
committees would proceed for which standard selection documentation would be used.



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                                                                  Page 25
Table 5.3 Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements 1/
(US$ Millions)
Project Element                            ICB                   NCB                   Other                 NBF 2/               Total
1. Works:                                  ---                   ---                   2.30       3/          1.23     4/         3.53
(1.60)               (0-00)                (1.60)
2. Goods:
(a) Computer Systems                       11.00      5/         ---                   1.00       6/                              12.00
(9.30)                                     (0.70)                                      (10.00)
(b) Teaching/Learning
Materials/Part B Textbooks             6.00       7/         3.15       8/         ---                    5.66      4/         14.81
(4.20)               (2.21)                                      (0.00)                (6.41)
(c) Office Furn./Equip.                    ---                                        0.15       9/          --                   0.15
(0.09)                                     (0.09)
(d) Textbooks (Special Fund)               3.00       10/        ---                   9.00       1i/        ---                   12.00
(2.50)                                     (5.50)                                      (8.00)
3. Services:
(a) Consultants                            ---                   ---                   19.19      12/        ---                   19.19
(18.40)                                    (18.40)
(b) Seminars/workshops/                    ---                   ---                   14.90      13/       7.74       4/         22.64
Study Tours/Fellowships                                                                (14.90)               (0.00)               (14.90)
(c) Grants for
Authors/Publishers                    ---                   ---                   3.78       14/        ---                   3.78
(3.80)                                     (3.80)
4. Administrative
(operational costs)                    ---                   ---                   6.80       15/        0.70       16/       7.50
(6.80)               0.00                  (6.80)
5. PPF:                                    ---                   ---                   1.00       17/        ---                   1.00
(1.00)                                     (1.00)
TOTAL PROJECT                              20.00                 3.15                  58.12                 15.33                96.60
(TOTAL IBRD)                               (16.00)               (2.21)                (52.79)              (0.00)                (71.00)
note:     Figures have been rounded in the Loan Agreement and in the description of procurement categories on the following pages.
1/        Figures in parentheses are representative amounts to be financed by the Loan.
2/        Not Bank Financed.
3/        Procured by Small Works procedures.
4/        Represents local cost sharing.
5/        ICB (US$11.0 rn-about 2-3 bid packages).
6/        IS (US$1.0 m) for about 10 bid packages for computers, related equipment and for materials, equipment for installation of computer systemus).
7/        ICB (US$6.0 rn-about 10 bid packages).
8/        NCB (US$3.15 m-about 15 contracts) for teaching/learning materials for about HEl's sub-projects receiving partial repayable grants over a four year
period and for teaching and learning materials for Part B of the project.
9/        NS (US$ 0.15 m) for about 8 bid packages for misc. office furniture and equipment.
10/       ICB (US$3.0 rn-about 3 bid packages).
11/       LIB (US$3.0 m) for about 4 bid packages and DC (US$6.0 m) about 12 bid packages (textbooks).
12/       Procurement according to Bank's Guidelines (USS$19.99 m less $0.8 m for PPF).
13/       For Seininars/Workshops/Study Tours/Fellowship Training please refer to paras. 5.21 & 5.22.
14/       For selection procedure for Grants please refer to para. 5.20.
15/       Administrative Expenses of the NTF as described in para. 5.7 would be procured following Bank Guidelines (US$7.0 m less $0.20 m for PPF).
16/       Represents taxes for operational costs.
17/       PPF would be used for consulting services obtained in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Use of Consultants, dated August, 1981 (Part A-$0.50
m; Part B-$0.30 m & Project Administration-$0.20 m).



Page 26                                                                        Chapter V
Procurement of Civil Works
5.12   Civil works, consisting basically of minor renovation of existing educational facilities under the
Social Sciences Reform Component (Part A) and NTF office facilities, estimated at about US$2.3 million
equivalent, would be procures as follows:
5.13   Small Works: Civil works estimated to cost less that US$100,000 equivalent per contract (total
of about US$2.3 million equivalent) would be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded
on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation.  The invitation would include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the World Bank,
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award would be made to the contractor who offers the
lowest price quotation for the required works, and who has the experience and resources to successfully
complete the contract. It is anticipated that this procedure would involve about 50 contracts over about
a four year period.
5.14   Civil Works estimated at US$1.2 million consisting of numerous small renovations required
basically for the upgrading of existing facilities under Part B of the project (School Textbook Reform)
for the installation of new computer systems and related equipment and for new teaching/learning
equipment would be procured following local procurement procedures. This work would be ineligible
for financing from the proceeds of the Loan and, subject to review by the WB, the non-tax portion may
be considered as a part of the Government's local cost sharing requirements.
Procurement of Goods
5.15   Goods (US$38.9 million---US$31.6 million excluding duties and taxes) would consist of, inter
alia, teaching/learning materials including computers and related equipment and software, office furniture
and miscellaneous consumable supplies, and textbooks. The following procurement procedures would
be utilized:
(a)   International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures would be utilized for contracts above
US$300,000 equivalent for a total of about US$20.0 million (51% of total goods). This would
involve about 22 bid packages over a three year period (2-3 for computers and about 10 for
teaching/learning material and about three (3) for textbooks).
(b)    Limited International Bidding (LIB), US$3.0 million (8% of total goods), procedures would be
used to purchase teaching/learning materials and equipment. LIB would be used for specialized
purchases where few potential suppliers are available (i.e., suppliers of specific goods would
participate by invitation rather than in response to an advertisement). About four (4) bidding
packages are anticipated.
(c)    National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures would be permitted for goods (teaching/learning
materials, office furniture and equipment, inter alia, that are locally available and would be
unlikely to attract foreign competition) that cannot be grouped in packages above US$300,000
equivalent (i. e., for packages less than $300,000) for a total of US$3.2 million (8% of total
goods). This would involve in excess of 15 bid packages over a four year period. Advertisement



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                Page 27
will be in local newspapers. Interested foreign suppliers would be eligible to participate.
Standardized bidding documents, developed by the ECA Region, would be used.
(d)   International and National Shopping (IS and NS) procurement procedures estimated at about
US$1.2 million would be used for readily available off-the-self goods of standard specifications
that are small in value. IS procedures would be used for goods valued at less that US$250,000
up to an aggregate of about US$1.0 millon and NS procedures would be used for goods valued
at less that US$50,000 up to an aggregate of about US$0.2 million (IS and NS approximately 3 %
of total goods). It is expected that miscellaneous office equipment and supplies, non-proprietary
spare parts and certain teaching/learning materials/equipment for the HEIs would be procured
using IS and NS procedures. IS procedures would require quotations from a least three (3)
suppliers from two different countries and for NS procedures, quotations from at least three (3)
local suppliers would be required. For IS, about 10 bid packages and for NS, about eight (8) bid
packages are anticipated.
(e)    Direct Contracting (DC) (US$6.0 million-about 15% of total goods) where the required goods
are proprietary and obtainable from only one source may be used for certain textbooks and other
teaching/learning materials, subject to prior review by the WB. About 12 bid packages are
anticipated.
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
5.16   For contracts for goods to be awarded on the basis of ICB, the Borrower may, as set forth in the
Loan Agreement, grant a margin of preference in the evaluation of bids of up to 15% or the amount of
applicable custom duties, whichever is lower, to qualified domestic manufacturers of goods.
Procurement/Selection Procedurefor Consulting Services
5.17  Included in the Project would be consulting services for about 150 staff-years of experts. These
services would consist of specialists for the Expert Committees; the Federal Expert Council; and the
Expert Commissions and include, inter alia, study groups for curricula and textbook development. Also
included would be staff of the NTF as required for the administration/implementation of the project.
Because of the short term and diverse nature of many assignments required by the project, it is anticipated
that a majority of the consulting contracts would be awarded to individual consultants through competitive
selection. Where practical, efforts would be made to group assignments into larger packages to be
awarded through short listing of firms.
5.18   Consultants would be hired on terms and conditions (including review of their qualifications), in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the WB on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" dated
August, 1981 and Standard Forms of Contract, where applicable, would be utilized. Standardized forms
of contracts, which set forth agreed conditions would be included in the Operation Manual (para. 4.6)
and would be utilized for specialized local services with payment based on an agreed standard pay scale.
The majority of the local short term experts would come from the local education community and re-
numeration would be in the form of an honorarium (based on the agreed standard pay scale).



Page 28                                                                       Chapter V
Selection Procedure for Grants for Textbook Publishers
5.19   A competitive selection procedure would be used for manuscript development by authors and for
pre-press and promotional information by publishers. The agreed selection procedure is to be set forth
in the Operational Manual (para. 3.18 and Annex B).
Seminars/Workshops
5.20   The NTF would develop an initial plan for the carrying out of seminars and workshops which
would be submitted for prior review by the WB. This plan would include, inter alia, the content,
audience, schedule, and estimated costs. The status of the plan would be included as a part of the
quarterly reports and would be updated and/or modified as may be mutually agreed between the NTF and
the WB.
Overseas Study Tours and Fellowship Training
5.21   The NTF would develop an initial plan which would include for Overseas Study Tours the
purpose, names/titles of participants, along with itinerary and estimated costs; and for Fellowship
Training, the qualifications of candidates along with their course and length of study; proposed training
institution; and costs. This plan would be submitted for prior review by the WB. The status of this plan
would be included as a part of the quarterly reports and updated and/or modified as may be mutually
agreed between the NTF and the WB. Overseas Study Tours and Fellowship Training would normally
be limited to short term tours and training programs (about four weeks for tours and about three months
for training).
Notification of Business Opportunities
5.22   A General Procurement Notice will be published in the May 18, 1997 edition of the UN
publication "Development Business" and, as appropriate, would be updated and published annually
thereafter. For Goods to be obtained by ICB, individual bidding opportunities would also be advertised
in a major local newspaper thirty (30) days prior to availability of bidding documents and transmitted to
potential bidders who expressed interest in bidding in response to the published General Procurement
Notice. The local advertisement procedure would be repeated for all bidding packages utilizing ICB (at
least 30 days in advance of availability of bidding documents). The local advertisements would be in the
English language and at the option of the Borrower, also in Russian.
Review By World Bank of Procurement Decisions
5.23   Procurement Planning: Prior to the issuance of any invitations for bidding (for each part of the
project including Project Administration), the proposed procurement plans shall be furnished to the WB
for review, in accordance with the provisions of para. 1 of Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with the procurement plans with corrective
actions taken where necessary as indicated in para. 1 of the mentioned Appendix. The Implementation
Plans would be included as a part of the quarterly reports and updated periodically as appropriate.



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                Page 29
5.24   Prior Review:
(a)    Works and Goods: Prior review of bidding documents for works and goods (including textbooks)
and review of evaluation and recommendations for award of contracts, would be carried out for
all procurement utilizing ICB, LIB and DC procedures. Contracts to be awarded using NCB,
IS, NS, and Small Works procurement procedures would require prior review of the list of the
proposed works and goods, including estimated costs. Standardized NCB, IS, NS and Small
Works bidding documents and proposed contract awards, in a sufficient number (minimum of 5
each) to ensure compliance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, would be subject to prior
review by the WB. Accordingly, about 60% (by cost) of procurement transactions would be
subject to prior review by the WB;
(b)    Consultant Services: The selection/contracting procedures for consulting services would be
subject to prior review as set forth in the Guidelines for those contracts greater than US$50,000
for individuals and US$100,000 for firms, except that: (a) terms of reference; (b) qualifications
of individuals/firms; (c) single source selection of consulting firms; and (d) assignments of critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the WB, would be subject to prior review by the WB.
Accordingly, about 42% (by cost) of procurement transactions would be subject to prior review
by the WB;
(c)    Seminars, Workshops, Fellowships and Study Tours: As described in paras. 5.20 and 5.21 above.
(d)    Authors/Publishers: The selection procedure for the award of Grants for authors/publishers
would be reviewed following the agreed procedures as contained in the Operational Manual and
as outlined in Annex B.
(e)    Textbooks: List(s) of textbooks would be submitted to the WB for prior review including the
estimate of costs and proposed method(s) of procurement.
5.25   Post Review:
(a)    The documentation for all procurement transactions, not covered by prior review, would be
subject to post review in accordance with paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines for
Procurement and would be subject to review during the WB's periodic supervision missions; and
(b)    After award of contract, should any material modifications or waiver of the terms and conditions
of a contract for works and goods (including textbooks) and/or services result in an increase
above 15% of the original contract price, the WB would reserve the right to the prior review of
such modifications. In addition, prior review by the WB would be required for: (i) amendments
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to US$100,000
equivalent or above, or (ii) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants
raising the contract value to US$50,000 equivalent or above.
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR)
5.26   A CPAR has not been prepared for the Russian Federation. For this Project, the Government



Page 30                                                                                                      Chapter V
would follow agreed WB procurement procedures as described above and as set forth in the Loan
Agreement.
D. Disbursement
Schedule
5.27    The proposed Loan is expected to be disbursed in six (6) years which includes six months for the
finalization of accounts and submission of withdrawal applications and other reports. Annex I contains
the disbursement forecast which is based on a work program prepared by the Education Working Group
and staff of the WB which is considered to be realistic. Loan Effectiveness (90 days after loan signing)
would be in September 1997. However, based on previous experience in the Russian Federation, a date
of December 1997 has been used for planning purposes. The project is scheduled to be completed by
June 30, 2003 (Project Completion Date) with a Loan Closing Date of December 31, 2003.
Disbursement Percentages
5.28    The proceeds of the Loan would be disbursed as shown in Table 5.4 below.
Table 5.4: Disbursement Categories and Percentages
Category                             Amount of Loan
(US$ Millions)              % of Expenditures to be financed
Part A:
(1) Goods:                                     11.00             100% of foreignexpenditures, 100% local expenditures(ex-factory
cost) and 70% of local expenditures for other items procured
locally.
(2) Civil Works:                                1.60             70%
(3) Services:
(a) Consultants                      13.00              100%
(b) Seminars/Workshops               13.90              100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local expenditures.
Study Tours/Fellowships
Part B:
(4) Goods:                                      5.50             100%offoreignexpenditures, 100%localexpenditures(ex-factory
cost) and 70% of local expenditures for other items procured
locally.
(5) Services:
(a) Consultants                       5.40              100%
(b) Seminars/WorkShops                1.00              100% of foreign expenses and 80% of local expenditures.
Study Tours/Fellowships
(c) Grants for Authors/Publishers:              3.80             100% of amounts disbursed.
PART C:
(5) Goods (Textbooks)                           8.00             100% of foreign expenditures, 100% local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 70% of local expenditures for other items procured
locally.
(6) Incremental Operating Costs:                6.80             100%
(7) PPF refmancing:                             1.00             Amounts due pursuant of Section 2.02 (C) of the Loan Agreement
Total Loan                                    71.00



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                 Page 31
Statement of Expenditures
5.29   Disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditures for: (a) works and goods
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each contract; (b) services for contracts for (i) individuals
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; and (ii) firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each;
(c) seminars, workshops, fellowships and study tours costing less than US$25,000 each; and (d)
incremental operating costs. Detailed documents evidencing these expenditures would be reviewed and
retained by the NTF and made available for the required audit as well as to WB supervision missions.
Disbursements against contracts for works, goods and services exceeding the above limits would be made
against normal documentation.
Special Account
5.30   To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower may establish, maintain and operate,
under condition acceptable to the WB, a Special Account in US dollars in a commercial bank. The
selection process and criteria for selection of the commercial bank would follow the WB standard
selection procedures. During the early stage of implementation of the project, the initial allocation of the
Special Account would be limited to US$0.2 million. However, when the aggregate disbursement under
the Loan have reached the level of US$2.0 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the
authorized allocation of US$3.0 million by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal.
Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled
bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
5.31   The minimum application size for payments directly from the Loan Account or for issuance of
Special Commitments is 20% of the current Special Account authorized allocations.
5.32   A separate Project Account for the NTF would not be required under this project since the
participating entities would be responsible for the local cost sharing requirements and for any applicable
duties and taxes. It was determined that a separate NTF Project Account, under prevailing Russian Law,
would likely result in the loss of any duty and tax free exemptions by, in particular, the HEIs. For non-
WB financed items, which would qualify under the cost sharing arrangement, each participating agency
would maintain separate accounts/records, following agreed acceptable accounting methods for those local
funds, which would be submitted to the NTF for inclusion into the annual audits.
E. Financial Management
Accounts and Auditing
5.33   The NTF would be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the funds provided under the
Loan and by the Borrower (Project) in accordance with internationally accepted accounting procedures,
and for reporting on the use of these funds, and ensuring that audits of the financial statements or reports
are submitted to WB in a timely manner. A computerized accounting system has been established in the
NTF for these activities. The NTF would maintain consolidated accounts for the project and would
prepare monthly financial reports.
5.34   All project records and accounts, including in particular those for the Special Account and for
Statements of Expenditures, would be audited annually in accordance with the WB Guidelines for
Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects financed by the World Bank dated March 1982. Auditing



Page 32                                                                        Chapter V
would be performed by independent auditors, acceptable to the WB. Audit reports would be submitted
to the WB within six months after the end of each Government fiscal year in such scope and detail as the
WB may reasonably request. Funds have been included in the Project for the services of auditors.



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                 Page 33
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.1    The proposed project is designed to improve the quality, quantity, governance and efficiency
of Russian education.
6.2    With respect to Higher Education the project will:
*     Enhance quality through incentives designed to make it comparable with international education
in social sciences;
*     Increase quantity by increasing the number of appropriately trained social scientists through
project investment in facilities, equipment, libraries and software;
*     Improve governance through the development and use of instruments that facilitate transparent
and accountable management of Higher Education; and
*     Encourage efficiency through better use of available resources and through an incentive scheme
for the preparation of graduates.
6.3    The School Textbook Reform component will:
*     Enhance quality through the further development of nationally established educational standards
and tests, the encouragement of more relevant and better quality textbooks;
*     Increase quantity and efficiency through better information systems which will permit choice and
timely ordering of school textbooks.
*     Increase significantly the role of the private sector in the supply of new educational titles.
6.4   The Pilot Textbook Procurement Fund will contribute towards:
*      overcoming barriers to entry and encouraging more competitive selection of textbooks
*     the demonopolization of the textbook publishing industry;
*      the creation of a sustainable system of funding for textbook supply for secondary education
6.5    There will be savings in educational costs as a result of:
*     more efficient use of resources in HEIs;
*     incentives for more transparent management and accounting practices within HEIs;
*     introduction of competition into textbook production.
6.6   There will be some direct cost-recovery from the HEIs but it will be less than complete. It is



Page 34                                                                          Chapter VI
anticipated that some of the HEI cost-savings will permit some overdue maintenance of HEIs. Any cost-
savings in the supply of textbooks could have a direct impact on local budgets.
6.7    Although the IF will provide only a modest amount of support towards reform, experience
elsewhere has shown that the effects of similar mechanisms provide a positive model for change which
may be taken up by non-participating institutions which recognize the benefit of such an approach. This
demonstration effect is an important feature of the sustainability of innovative approaches such as the IF.
This component would also provide better and more accurate information on individual educational
institutions which would benefit the next operations in the sector.
6.8   Increased efficiency is expected to lead to savings in expenditure on higher education, increased
numbers of graduates in social sciences and improved quality of graduates. However, it is not feasible
to calculate economic rates of return to these expenditures. In part this is because in such a pilot project
it is extremely difficult to predict the precise outcomes. Second, the scarcity of graduates with training
in modem economics and finance has been so acute in Russia in recent years that their current salary
levels would probably exaggerate the apparent economic returns from the project. Third, while there is
no doubt that the availability of textbooks is a critical element in the educational effectiveness of schools,
there is no information that can be used to estimate the economic impact of this improved effectiveness.
6.9    Without this project, Higher Education in Russia would continue to suffer from a shortage of
graduates in economics and other social sciences disciplines and would have to rely on more costly
solutions to the need for well trained graduates in these disciplines. Similarly, without the initiatives
which will be piloted in the School Textbook Reform component and without the Pilot Textbook
Procurement Fund, the spread of new learning materials and the reform of the textbook publishing
industry would be delayed.
Risks
6.10  It is difficult to be certain of the eventual demand for the Innovation Fund. Since participating
HEIs will have to make some repayments, there may be reluctance on the part of some of the most
deserving HEIs to apply for grants. This might result in under use of the funds, or their use only by
institutions which rely heavily on fee-paying students. Since, even with some cost-recovery, there will
be some implicit subsidies, this could mean that the project was being inequitable. The participatory
nature of project preparation, with sustained involvement of individuals representing a geographically and
structurally diverse set of institutions, suggests that this risk is small. However, a further related risk
that high rates of repayment would provide incentives for participating HEIs to engage in dubious
commercial activities in order to repay the grants will also be taken into consideration. There will be
careful monitoring of these potential risks, and the project design offers considerable flexibility to alter
the incentives for application and/or condition of awards if the initial outcomes suggest that this would
be desirable. It is also possible that HEIs will not continue with courses once the grants to initiate them
have been fully used. Since the project will finance start-up rather than recurrent costs, this risk seems
to be small.   The cost recovery system whereby competing Higher Education Institutions would
guarantee to repay 20% of grants to the Ministry of Finance introduces a powerful incentive for these
self selected institutions to achieve their own internal efficiency and improves the sustainability of the
reform elements of the project.
6.11   The Pilot Textbook Procurement Fund poses the risk that there might be limited demand from
oblasts for loans to procure textbooks, given the stringent fiscal situation in Russia. Another risk,



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                      Page 35
associated with the textbook related components of the project, is that the barriers to entry for new private
publishers will remain too high, and the project will not succeed in promoting competition for school
textbooks. Current high real interest rates are a potentially severe deterrent to private publishers, and
some observers have argued that without interest subsidies, demonopolization of the textbook publishing
industry will be limited. Others feel that this is too pessimistic, and that the development of clear and
open mechanisms for establishing educational standards and evaluating and approving textbooks, grants
to develop new titles and more efficient methods for disseminating information about textbook availability
and ordering will be adequate. These components will be carefully monitored and evaluated. The pilot
nature of the Textbook Fund component and the overall cautious scope of the project will provide
important lessons for future Bank projects in the education sector in Russia.



Page 36                                                                     Chapter VII
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.1   At Negotiations, the Government:
(a)    Presented a draft of Volume III of the Operations Manual (para. 4.6) which contained the
following documents:
(i)   the Applications Procedures Documentation, including eligibility criteria for the
selection of HEIs, number and members of Expert Committees, and draft
Agreement between the participating HEIs and the MOF containing, inter alia,
the cost recovery scheme (para. 3.14);
(ii)   the competitive selection procedures and contract arrangements for the award of
Grants to Textbook Authors and Publishers (para. 3.18 (b));
(iii)  the TOR for the feasibility study and systems plan for the Textbook Information
System (para. 3.19 (b)); and
(iv)   the draft procedures for the selection of the oblasts and the on-lending
arrangements, including procedures for the future operation of the revolving fund
under the Pilot Textbook Procurement Fund (para. 3.23);
(b)   agreed in principle with the Bank's recommendations on the restructuring of the Federal
Expert Council (para. 3.14(b));
(c)   confirmed that if the Operations Manual were to be updated by the NTF, as may be
deemed appropriate, during the implementation of the project, the WB would be
consulted (para. 4.6);
(d)   agreed the indicators and methods to be used for the monitoring and evaluation of the
proposed project (para. 4.7);
(e)   confirmed the budgetary process and procedures for the financing of all applicable local
duties and taxes (para. 5.5); and
(f)   reviewed the procedures and agreed on the authorized allocations for the Special Account
(para. 5.30);
7.2   Conditions of Loan Effectiveness would be:
(a)   that the NTF Project Coordination Agreement has been duly executed by the Borrower
and NTF (para. 4.5); and
(b)   the adoption and clearance by the NTF Board of Directors of the revised Operational
Manual (para. 4.6).



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                 Page 37
B. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.3   Subject to these agreements and conditions, the proposed project would be suitable for a WB Loan
of US$71 million to the Government of the Russian Federation for seventeen (17) years including a five
(5) year grace period, at the WB's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US Dollar single currency
loans.



Page 38                                                                          Annex A
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Education Innovation Project
ANNEX A
HIGHER EDUCATION INNOVATION FUND
PROJECT BACKGROUND
INTRODUCTION
1.    In 1993 staff of the World Bank (WB) together with colleagues from a wide range of institutions
within the Government of Russia (GOR), including the State Committee for Higher Education (SCHE),
universities and other educational institutions, began work on a review of the education sector. The results
of that initiative was the report entitled Russia: Education in the Transition'. Subsequently, in December,
1994, the main conclusions of the report were discussed at a seminar attended by high level officials from
the GOR together with the authors of the report and representatives of the WB. Following discussions
between the GOR and the management of the World Bank it was agreed that initial steps should be taken
towards identifying a project for WB financing. Accordingly, from May 1995, the WB and the GOR have
worked intensively on project identification and design.  At a pre-appraisal mission held at Golitsyno
in September, 1996 an early version of this document was discussed with representatives of the Ministry
of Education, the Rectors and the working party. It was subsequently revised and agreed during the
appraisal mission in December, 1996.
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN HIGHER EDUCATION
2.    The higher education system of the Russian Federation is currently under strong outside pressure.
The most important factors of outside influence are as follows:
a.    changes in the general economic situation and reduction of federal budget financing;
b.    changes in the needs of the general public for education;
c.    changes in the needs of employers for human resources produced by the higher education
system;
d.    expansion of Russia's international contacts and the need to bring education standards in
Russia in line with the best international patterns.
3.    Over the last 3-4 years the higher education system has seen substantial improvements which
indicate gradual adaptation to the above factors. New laws on education with amendments have been
adopted 2, Important indications of efforts to adjust to changing needs of the general public for education
and needs of employers for human resources are changes in distribution of admissions and graduations
by areas of specialization, increase in the number of new private schools which provide training in the
I     World Bank, Russia: Education in the Transition, December 1995.
2     Law of the Russian Federation on Education (Vedomosti Syezda Narodnykh Deputatov Rossiiskoi
Federatsii I Verkhovnogo Soveta Rossiiskoi Federatsii) July, 1992, No.30, Article 1797 and Amendments &
addenda to the Law 'On Education' No. 12-FZ, January, 1996; Federal Law on Higher and Postgraduate
Professional Education, 22 August 1996.



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                   Page 39
most wanted areas, changes in standards and the content of education.3 Some changes occurred in the
system of governance and management of higher education institutions (HEIs), reflected in the
consolidation of the central structure of higher education management, the increase of academic freedom,
and the introduction of the system of election of rectors. 4 The system responded to reduced federal
budget funding by drawing increasingly on the extra-budgetary and local budgets sources 5.
4.    Yet the pace and nature of the response to the external pressure remain clearly inadequate. The
regulatory legal framework is incomplete; different HEIs are governed by different government agencies;
there is little reliable information on how the system operates so it is hard to take decisions; multiple-
source financing is slow to develop; management systems are flawed; regional and professional
(disciplinary) co-ordination is weak. However, it would be misleading to present higher education as
unreformed or unreformable. Within the higher education community, many institutions are oriented to
reform, or at least to modernization, and experience frustration at their incapacity to achieve their reform
objectives. A key element is the need to overcome the consequences of intellectual isolation from the
international professional academic community.
LESSONS FROM WORLD BANK EXPERIENCE
5.    The World Bank has considerable experience in the use of innovation type funds within higher
education projects, for example in Hungary, Indonesia, Tunisia, Brazil, Argentina and the Bank's first
operation in higher education in Romania.
6.     The lessons which are particularly relevant to the present project are that in the field of higher
education reform and management of higher education, incentives are to be preferred to compulsion.
Core budget funding, to be distributed to higher education institutions under an objective and transparent
system, encourages responsiveness to changing market demand and provides an ongoing incentive for
efficiency improvement. With commitment of the government to continue the process, the system can
be sustained long after the initial investment of the World Bank.
PROJECT CHARACTER AND REQUIREMENTS
7.    The relative smallness of the envisaged WB Educational Loan compared to the scale of
existing higher education expenditure imposes modest targets on what it seeks to achieve in terms of
reform. Taking into account the situation in Russian higher education and previous Bank experience with
educational projects, the WB team, together with Russian colleagues and following WB management
advice, agreed on the development of a project which would have the following characteristics:
a.    the project is of a pilot type;
b.    the project has two major objectives:
3      The report by Davies, Poletayev and Tate, Higher Education in Russia with Special Reference to
Economics and the Social Sciences summarizes the main features of institutional development in higher
education.
4      The nature of these influences are described in detail in the report by Green, Legal. Governance and
Management Aspects of Higher Education in Russia.
5     The report by Papps & Tipenko, Costs & Financing of Higher Education in the Russian Federation
summarizes the main features of the funding and financial aspects of higher education.



Page 40                                                                           Annex A
i.    to improve the quality of education;
ii.   to introduce a modest element of refonn;
c.    the project has the following features:
i.    an investment focus but with a reform agenda within it;
ii.    a simple implementation structure;
iii.    a design which does not depend for its success upon the introduction of an
overall 'grand' reform strategy;
iv.    a design which could withstand changes of government.
v.    sustainability of the outcomes.
FOCUS and ORGANIZATION of the PREPARATORY WORK
8.    For the purposes of project preparation more focused information was required than that available
in the report Russia: Education in the Transition. Therefore, following the completion of the initial steps
of project identification in September 1995, further studies were commissioned from Russian and
international experts who worked on the following topics:
a.    Higher Education in Russia with Special Reference to Economics and the Social Sciences6
b.    Legal, Governance and Management Aspects of Higher Education in Russia
c.    Costs and Financing of Higher Education in the Russian Federation
9.    During the field work on which these studies are based the international experts interviewed over
130 senior academics and administrators in more than 40 HEIs and 5 Government departments involved
in the education sector. Other studies which were also commissioned were:
a.    International Assistance to the Social Sciences Education
b.     Case studies of six Higher Education Institutions (HEls), namely:
i.    St. Petersburg University of Economics and Finance
ii.    Nizhny Novgorod State Linguistic University
iii.    Rostov State University.
iv.    Novosibirsk State University
v.    Institute for the Development of Entrepreneurship (Moscow)
vi.    Samara State Technical University.
10.   Where possible a team comprised of an international expert, a Russian expert and a local mentor
drawn from a senior position in Government to provide advice on the direction of the work.
THE INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURE of PROJECT PREPARATION
11.   As is normal in relationships between the World Bank and individual countries several
interlocutors have different roles in shaping a project. In the case of the Education Innovation Project the
6      For the purposes of establishing the frame of reference for Window 1, "Social Sciences" has been
defined as the disciplines of: economics, sociology, and political sciences.



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                   Page 41
principal interlocutor with respect to the nature and scale of financing is the Ministry of Finance. On
technical matters two ministries have been closely concerned namely, the Ministry of Economy and the
Ministry of General and Professional Education (MGPE). The MGPE has been particularly involved in
the technical aspects of the project.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES WITHIN THE CONTEXT OF REFORMS
THE MAIN ISSUES
12.   Since 1990 the Russian higher education system has been rapidly changing. A lot of progress in
reforming the system has been achieved both at the governmental and the grass-root levels. Many
innovations and initiatives have been undertaken to meet the challenges of the transition from centrally-
planned economy and authoritarian society to the market economy system and democratic political system.
At the same time the reports show that at the moment the higher education is characterized by many
imbalances, distortions and imperfections, which are partly inherited from the old system, partly reflect
transitional processes. The main issues identified are:
a.    Structural-functional imbalances & distortions. Underdevelopment of social sciences still
persist which influences the whole educational system. In many HEIs education is
oriented towards excessive specialization. Focus on inputs (number of staff, formal
qualifications of staff, length of courses and the hours a student spends on each course
etc.) rather than outputs is still dominating. Standards are frequently equated with initial
amount rather than final quality and the search for more efficient and effective methods
of teaching is inhibited. Responses of HEls to the market demand for educational services
and particular types of human capital bears short-term character. In the absence of the
long-term strategy on the governmental level this leads to the new structural-functional
distortions, reflected in the professional structure of enrolment, contents of education and
curriculum.
b.    Imbalances in centralization/autonomy proportions. HEIs have little real autonomy over
the use of budgetary funding, but at the same time there is no real accountability for
funding from other sources. They are constrained by norms and standards relating to
aspects such as staff-students ratios, teaching loads, etc. At the same time HEIs obtained
an extremely high degree of academic autonomy with insufficient guidance of the
contents of education, curriculum, etc., either on the side of the Government, or of the
academic community.
c.    Imbalanced relationship between administrative and academic responsibilities and
decision-making power within HEIs, accompanied by ineffective management system.
Academics have little decision-making power over the allocation of resources. In reality
this is under complete and unchallenged control of senior management. Administrative
decisions very rarely become subject of revision or approval by autonomous stake-holders
of HEIs. Quite often trivial decisions are taken at very high levels. This results in
slowness of decision-making and, perhaps more serious, a split between the decision and
its impact. Formal decision-making responsibility is in the hands of a relatively few
number of people. Most of the staff in Russian HEIs seem to have little real power to
make decisions and, as a consequence, bear little responsibility.



Page 42                                                                        Annex A
d.    Imbalances of public/private elements in the system  of HE. Introduction of
commercialized elements in HE (connected with short-term orientation on current demand
for educational services and new human capital) undermines public roots of HE, leads
to unnecessary neglect of fundamental education and general knowledge. Also this
preserves low level of public accountability and transparency, opposes participation of
non-university members in HEIs governance. HEIs are drifting toward being profit-
making centers instead of a non-profit providers of the educational services. This is
worsened by the absence of clearly specified property rights (laws, charters, rules), which
opens a possibility to "spontaneous privatization" of the public HEIs.
THE DIRECTION OF REFORM
13.   The reports imply, therefore, that the WB project should support institutional changes which
would lead to the reform of the system. These reforms are expected to, inter alia, contribute to:
a.    elimination of structural-functional imbalances, particularly by improvement of the quality
of education in social sciences with special emphasis on the educational outputs;
b.    correction of centralization/autonomy imbalances; support of the prospective initiatives
and innovations in HE at the grass-root level; development of academic co-ordination and
monitoring of the quality of education;
C.    development of the separation of administrative and academic responsibilities;
improvement of the system of management;
d.    increase of various stake-holders' involvement in the governance of HEIs; increase of
accountability and transparency of HEIs management.
PROJECT DESIGN
THE INNOVATION FUND
14.   Guided by the above mentioned objectives and constraints, and following intensive discussions
in Russia and within the WB (in which the lessons of the WB experience were carefully reviewed) it was
decided to prepare an investment project within a Fund structure. An Innovation Fund (IF) would be
established for the purpose of promoting an improvement in the quality of education and reform in higher
education in Russia. The IF would focus on the development of economics and social sciences in a way
which supports reform initiatives. Grants would be made based on the result of a competitive process
between higher education institutions. Conditions of application and selection criteria would be approved
by the WB and then publicized and awards would be determined in a transparent manner on an efficient
basis. The amount of the fund will be approximately US $50 million.
SCOPE of the FUND
15.   It was agreed at an early stage in project preparation with representatives of the GOR that the
focus of the IF would be on the improvement of the quality of education within economics and social
sciences and on the reform of the governance and management of HEIs. This decision was made by the
GOR because social sciences are seen as a priority sector to support economic restructuring and need a



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                 Page 43
great deal of development in qualitative terms7 and there was a wish to improve the governance and
management of HEIs to benefit all aspects of higher education.
WINDOWS WITHIN THE FUND
16.   There would be three windows of support within the Innovation Fund. Each of these windows
addresses certain aspects of reform in HE. Programs supported within these windows should not be
considered as separate. For example, the development of professional linkages with international partners
to ensure comparability of standards is an integral element of each window. They are complementary
to each other and mutually supportive.
Window 1:   Social Science Institutions Capacity Building. This Window would support Social
Science Development Schemes (SSDSs) by partially repayable grants allocated on a
competitive selection basis for improvements in the teaching of social sciences linked to
reform of governance and management at the institutional level. Up to 70% of the total
fund would be allocated to this window.
Window 2:   Governance Refonn. This Window would support Structural Reform Schemes (SRSs)
by partially repayable grants allocated on a competitive selection basis for governance
reform efforts. The proportion of the total fund allocated to this window would be up
to 22% of the total fund.
Window 3:   Social Sciences Academic Support. This window  would support Social Sciences
Academic Award Schemes (SSASSs), academic co-operation and co-ordination of
professional activity designed to support the development of structural reform and the
social sciences (seminars, visiting scholarships, the exchange of professorships, scientific
journals, professional associations, the development of networks and lateral connections
in the social sciences supported in the project). The amount allocated to this window is
not to exceed 8% of the total amount of the fund.
FEATURES OF SOCIAL SCIENCE DEVELOPMENT SCHEMES (SSDS) AND STRUCTURAL
REFORM SCHEMES (SRS)
17.   The project will invite applications for grants to finance SSDSs and SRSs. Priority in funding
would be given to schemes which contain the following features:
a.    institutional development: the extent to which the schemes contribute to or require
positive reform of management and/or administrative structures and procedures;
b.    devolved decision-making within the HEI could be a feature of each SSDS and SRS
submitted. This might show the extent to which the SSDSs and SRSs provide incentives
and opportunities for junior teaching staff to engage in effective decision-making;
c.    efficient funding formulae: illustrating how  the schemes allow  or promote the
7     See the report by Davies, Poletayev and Tate, Higher Education in Russia with Special Reference to
Economics and the Social Sciences.



Page 44                                                                         Annex A
development of funding formulae (for example, staff salaries, library resources, course
delivery) which are based on measures of output;
d.    basis for future reform and for the future academic development within the institution
should be present in any scheme;
e.    flexibility which recognizes not only the numerical variable of supply and demand but
also the changing content of any discipline should be evident within the scheme;
f.    a review of teaching methods, including a review of staff/student ratios and the use of
appropriate technology, (and its influence on the HEI's physical resources) would form
an essential element in a successful scheme.
GOVERNANCE of the INNOVATION FUND
18.   The Innovation Fund will be administered by the National Training Foundation (NTF) which will
act as a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), empowered by the GOR to administer the Loan in accordance
with the objectives of the project (Annex D). The operation of the Innovation Fund will be governed by
the Board of Directors of the NTF which will represent the interests of the stakeholders: that is, the
Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy and the academic community.
Expert committees from appropriate disciplines will be established for the purpose of assessing and
recommending awards to the Board of Directors of the NTF. The Board of Directors will inter alia
confirm proposals to amend the operating principles of the IF; and confirm that awards made are
consistent with the operating principles of the IF and Loan Agreement. Procedures for the operations
of the Fund will be agreed and incorporated into an Annex to the Operations Manual of the NTF. The
reorganized staffing plan of the NTF will make available such technical advice and assistance as may be
required to carry out these extended functions.
WINDOWS OF THE INNOVATION FUND
SOCIAL SCIENCE INSTITUTIONS CAPACITY BUILDING (WINDOW 1): (GRANTS up to
$3,000,000)
19.   The purpose of this window is to develop the capacity of HEIs to teach social sciences in an
efficient and effective way and to undertake governance and management reforms at the institutional level.
Awards for SSDSs are conditional upon satisfactory proposals to undertake such reforms. Those HEIs
applying for Window 1 grants must also submit at the same time proposals on this subject. Awards will
be made on the basis of the combined merit of the proposed SSDS and SRS.
QUALIFYING ENTITIES
20.   A frame of reference (Attachment 1) has been developed on the basis of qualifying criteria namely
those HEIs teaching social sciences. The frame of reference produces 121 State HEIs with a wide
geographical spread, a substantial difference in sizes and provides a range of types of HEIs including
Technical Institutions and Pedagogical Institutions. Additionally, the frame of reference also contains
those HEIs which are acknowledged centers of excellence in the field of social science. Should such
HEIs submit schemes for funding and are successful in the competition the IF will strengthen strategic
points of growth in the Russian higher education sector. Private HEIs will be introduced into the frame



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                    Page 45
of reference using the same qualifying criteria.
APPLICATION PROCEDURES
21. Each HEI in the frame of reference will receive a copy of the Application Procedures Document
(APD) which will outline the application procedures to be followed, the terms and conditions of grant
awards, the criteria of awards, the timetable, information required in proposal submissions, payment
conditions, monitoring and evaluation arrangements. Applications received will be judged initially on their
compliance to the conditions of the competition, and secondly, using the criteria and conditions specified
below. All applications will be judged on a competitive basis by the criteria listed below.
22.   Detailed guidelines for applications procedures and other relevant information are contained in
the Operational Manual for the project.
AWARD CRITERIA FOR SSDSs
23.    The essential general criteria are listed below and are those which will be applied to the selection
of Social Science Development Schemes (SSDSs). The object of the criteria in this section is to ensure
that the social science development schemes are of intrinsic value. Social science development criteria
concern the worthwhileness of the proposed scheme against such measures as: innovativeness, efficiency,
transportability, value for money, additionality, market relevance. Criteria against which applications
will be judged are listed below.
a.    innovativeness: assessors will expect the SSDSs to demonstrate an ability to introduce and
develop new ideas and materials in curricula and degrees comparable with internationally
recognized social science education currently offered by leading universities around the
world;
b.     efficiency: schemes should show the extent to which the methodology produces the
largest impact of the lowest cost;
c.    transportability: to maximize the value of the SSDS it should illustrate how the lessons
learned in its execution will be transferred to other parts of the HEI and, if appropriate,
to other Russian HEIs;
d.     value for money: the ratio of applicants to the number of places available;
e.    additionality: the extent to which the SSDS is dependent on finance by the IF such that
it would not be undertaken without this funding;
f.    market relevance: the contribution of the output of the scheme to the satisfaction of
market needs;
g.     evaluation: successful SSDSs will make provision for pre-scheme and post-scheme testing
to facilitate objective evaluation designed to show the influence of Pilot Project inputs in
relation to variables selected by the HEI.



Page 46                                                                         Annex A
CONTENT OF SUBMISSIONS
24.   The APD will require applicants to submit inter alia, information on the project proposal
including a project description, action plan, project budget, and proposed project management. Profile
information on the applicant institution will also be required. Submissions would include:
a.    An EXPENDITURE BUDGET TIMETABLE showing the projected estimate of quarterly
costs in each year of the SSDS shall be submitted for each scheme. The budget shall also
show the schedule of payments proposed by the HEI. Any financial contribution which
the HEI is proposing to make to the cost of the scheme should also be detailed. Standard
budget forms will be part of the Applications Documentation.
b.    A TIMETABLE must be submitted with each scheme showing dates when each element
of the scheme will be completed. This timetable could also make provision for an annual
review which must satisfy the Board of Directors before subsequent grants are released.
c.    INFORMATION about the institution, including:
*     curricula and academic programs;
*     experience of participation in international retraining programs for lecturers and
effectiveness of such participation;
*     creation of own textbooks in socio-economic disciplines;
*     use of PCs in educational process, availability of modern socio-economic literature in the
library;
*     functioning of retraining structures in socio-economic disciplines;
*     list of Russian and international grants obtained by the faculty;
*     affiliations and departments, located in other regions;
*     participation in the academic exchange;
*     age structure of the faculty in socio-economic disciplines;
*     masters and Ph.D. programs in socio-economic disciplines;
*     publications of the faculty in socio-economic disciplines;
*     analysis of the graduates' employment.
d.    DESCRIPTION of the proposed Social Science Development Schemes (SSDSs) and
reform schemes designed to meet the objectives of the Project, including:
*     a detailed plan of action including a timetable with a clear statement of target dates for
each element of the scheme;
*     a detailed costing of the proposed schemes.
e.    Upon submitting of application for participation in the program, a HEI declares officially
its further principles of activity, including:
*     a statement of any financial contribution from the HEI towards the scheme(s);
*     publication of financial reports;
*     periodic independent auditing;
*     transparency and accountability to the public.



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                    Page 47
AWARD PROCEDURE
25.   There will be four Expert Committees, one for each of the three academic disciplines supported
under the project (economics, sociology and politology) and a fourth committee to cover institutional
reform. Each committee will include at least one international member. HEIs will be invited to submit
applications for awards from the Fund by a date published three months in advance of closure. Should
the total amount allocated to any window not be fully expended after the first competition further
opportunities for HEIs to apply will be given until the fund is exhausted. The result of each competition
will be published nationally. All schemes will be subjected to assessment against the criteria in this
document by the appropriate Expert Committee. The Expert Committee will recommend awards to the
Board of Directors and grant awards will be processed according to the agreed procedures in the
Operations Manual.
ELIGIBLE EXPENDITURES
26.    Expenditures which would attract funding from the IF for improvements in the quality of
teaching in economics and social sciences include:
a.     program development costs (it is anticipated that within this category new courses might
be mounted which involve new styles of teaching and new approaches to learning.
Experimental programs of learning and teaching could also be encouraged such as inter-
disciplinary studies);
b.     consultancy services (which might be available from a wide range of sources within
Russia and from within higher education, commerce and industry in other countries);
c.     development of new textbooks (allowing research by potential authors; the training of
new writers; innovative approaches to the future style and content of textbooks and
consideration of institutional publication. It is also suggested that the 'textbook' concept
might, with advantage, be expanded to include professional 'journals');
d.     accreditation and certification arrangements (allowing a wide range of inter-institutional
co-operation and the investigation of degree validation by established Universities within
the pilot project);
e.    improvement of libraries (could include the further training of librarians; the expansion
of technology to advance methods of information storage and retrieval; the improvement
of physical facilities in addition to the increase of texts available for loan and reference);
f.    improvement of information technology facilities (would include such items as access to
the Internet, e-mail facilities between HEIs within the proposed pilot project, portable
equipment for social science research, institutional development of audio-visual aids for
teaching, learning and research and video recording);
g.    staff training and development (is a natural concomitant of other categories and proposals
would be expected to show their relationship with other elements of the SSDS submitted);
h.    the retraining of staff made redundant through SSDSs to allow personnel to change



Page 48                                                                        Annex A
disciplines or engage in new occupations;
i.    research expenditure related to a SSDS (it is suggested that this might cover travel,
specialized texts and services in addition to other elements covered in the above
categories).
j.    other expenditures may be allowed provided they are essential to the successful
completion of any scheme and are consistent with the procedures laid down in the Annex
to the Operations Manual.
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
27.   To monitor the progress of the project, an annual review of the schemes it is funding will be
undertaken by independent advisers including international experts who will report to the Board of
Directors of the NTF. This review will be based on standardized reports prepared by the beneficiaries
themselves on the progress of the project using, inter alia, the indicators listed in Annex E.
GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT REFORM (WINDOW 2) (GRANTS up to $300,000)
28.   The purpose of this window is to facilitate the reform in the system of governance and
management of public HEIs, increase the efficiency of their operations and provide public accountability
and transparency.
APPLICATION PROCEDURES
29.   Each qualifying HEI will receive a copy of the Application Procedures Document (APD) which
will outline the application procedures to be followed, the terns and conditions of grant awards, the
criteria of awards, the timetable, information required in proposal submissions, payment conditions,
monitoring and evaluation arrangements. Applications received will be judged initially on their
compliance to the conditions of the competition.
AWARD CRITERIA FOR SRSs
30.   It is anticipated that the following features would be contained in all submissions of a SRS:
a.    development of accounting systems; accountability of funds; SRSs submitted by HEIs
will be expected to show how dual accounting responsibility for financial expenditure will
be incorporated into the management structure;
b.    schemes to increase the transparency in use of resources;
c.    schemes to improve the management of HEls;
d.    schemes to improve the financial controls in HEIs;
e.    measures to improve the governance and management of the institution to include a
division of the academic and the administrative activities;
f.    arrangements to introduce non-university participation in the governance of HEIs.
31.   Acceptable schemes might include measures to:
a.    develop a strategic development plan;



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                 Page 49
b.    introduce standardized accounting procedures;
c.    introduce auditing in accordance with standardized accounting procedures;
d.    provide retraining programs for administrative and accounting staff;
e.    modernize administrative procedures
f.    prepare annual audited accounts covering all income and expenditure to be submitted to
the Board of Directors. Suggestions within each SRS on how these accounts might be
made public would be an advantage to the application for funding from the IF;
g.    publish an annual report on university activities;
CONTENT of SUBMISSIONS
32.   The APD will require applicants to submit the following types of information according to the
forms provided:
a.    Information about their institution;
b.    An expenditure budget timetable showing the projected estimate of quarterly costs in each
year of the SRS shall be submitted for each scheme.
C.    A timetable should be submitted with each SRS showing dates when each element of the
SRS is expected to be completed. This timetable should make provision for an annual
evaluation which must satisfy the Board of Directors before subsequent grants are
released.
AWARD PROCEDURE
33.   The award procedure will be as for Window 1 (see para. 25)
ELIGIBLE EXPENDITURES
34.   Types of expenditure which may attract funding include the following:
a.    development costs of new institutional structures (such as the training of potential 'non-
university' members of the University Council and Trustees);
b.    training in management and financial management (could also cover the cost of temporary
staff hired while permanent staff are retraining);
c.    training in administration (covers additional temporary staff costs);
d.    training in procurement (could cover internal and external costs, secondments to
commerce and industry, absence cover);
e.    information technology related expenditure (access to other HEIs through the Internet,
e-mail facilities between HEIs within the proposed pilot project);
f.    consultancy services (national, international, commercial, industrial and educational);



Page 50                                                                         Annex A
g.    development of management information systems;
h.    development of accounting systems;
i.    development of funding formulae;
j.     development of a monitoring and evaluation system (covering cost of staff and supporting
facilities to establish frequent assessment of development within the HEI);
k.    refurbishment of physical resources associated with new working practices;
1.    the retraining of staff made redundant through a SRS to allow personnel to change
disciplines or engage in new occupations;
m.    installation of efficient communication systems (institutionally, nationally and
internationally).
n.    transition costs of integration of several HEls (will be many and varied and this category
offers wide scope for those HEIs wishing to benefit from the advantages of integration
under Window 2; it is suggested that because of its importance this category could cover
the cost of staff specially designated to implement integration);
o.    Other expenditures may be allowed providing they are essential to the successful
completion of any scheme and are consistent with the procedures laid down in the Annex
to the Operations Manual.
MONITORING
35.   As per Window 1 (see para. 27).
SOCLAL SCIENCE ACADEMIC SUPPORT SCHEMES (SSASSs) WINDOW 3 (GRANTS up to
$100,000)
36.   The purpose of this window will be to fund SSASSs which provide improvement in the quality
of social sciences education, academic mobility, inter-institutional flow of knowledge and the
dissemination of best academic practices. The Window is intended to develop the academic component
of social science education and promote the development of the academic community.
QUALIFYING ENTITIES
37.   The entities which can apply for participation in this Window are:
a.    informal specialist academic groups within or with access to any HEI;
b.    professional journals in social sciences;
c.    academic associations and professional organizations in social sciences;
d.    projects developed by the NTF which cross EIP supported disciplines.



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                Page 51
APPLICATION PROCEDURES
38.   Information on this Window will be distributed across all HEIs, scientific journals and
professional associations in social sciences. Qualifying HEIs, journals and associations applying for a
grant will receive a copy of the Application Procedures Document (APD) which will outline the
application procedures to be followed, the terms and conditions of grant awards, the criteria of awards,
the timetable, information required in proposal submissions, payment conditions, monitoring and
evaluation arrangements.
CRITERIA
39.   Applications received will be judged initially on their compliance to the conditions of the
competition, and secondly, by criteria and conditions to be defined in the documentation agreed at
negotiations by the Borrower and the World Bank and included in the Annex to the Operations
Manual.
CONTENT of SUBMISSIONS
40.   As specified in the APD, applicants are required to submit the following types of information:
a.    Information about their organization;
b.    Description of their proposed Social Science Academic Support Scheme (SSASS),
including:
i.    a detailed plan of action including a timetable with a clear statement of target
dates for each element of the scheme;
ii.    a detailed costing of the proposed schemes.
AWARD PROCEDURE
41.   The grants under this Program will be awarded according to the general criteria contained in
the documentation agreed at negotiations and laid down in the Annex to the Operations Manual. The
grants may also be available for the pursuit of particularly creative ideas which may carry a higher
degree of risk than could reasonably be accepted within Windows 1 and 2.
42.   A specified report on realization of the project and financial report are to be provided upon
the finalization of the project.
ELIGIBLE EXPENDITURES
43.   In principle, eligible expenditures include those items listed under Windows 1 and 2. On the
recommendation of the Board of Directors, and with Bank approval, additional categories of
expenditure may be considered.
MONITORING
44.   To monitor the progress of the scheme, full payment of the grant will be subject to a
satisfactory report on the activity as per Window 1 (see para 27).



Page 52                                                                            Annex A
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
45.   HEls involved in this project will be assisted in the implementation of the program by a series
of workshops to which the PIU and other experts will contribute acting on behalf of the Board of
Directors. At this stage four main types of assistance are envisaged:
a.     Training
i.   initial assistance in preparing submissions;
ii.   training in grant management;
iii.  training in report submissions;
iv.   assistance with public relations;
b.    Advisory services
i.    assistance with locating providers of the services required;
ii.    a central Program Office located in the PIU  to which participating HEIs can
refer;
iii.   arrangement and conduct of seminars;
iv.    an information service for the HEIs in the pilot project;
V.    the provision of a central coordinating service;
vi.    advice on managing grants;
vii.   help with the recruitment of 'non-university' personnel for Trusts and
Councils.
c.    Manuals and documentation
i.    writing and distribution of sample applications documentation;
ii.   the writing and provision of other documentation as may be required and
which will be defined in the Annex to the Operations Manual.
d.    Dissemination of project outcomes
i.    preparation of materials for dissemination relating to project outcomes;
ii.    publication of the results of the pilot project;
iii.   the holding of a conference to review project outcomes and review
experiences.
PREPARATION OF PHASE TWO PROJECT
46.   The PIU will organize preparatory studies of a follow-on project building on the essence of
the experience gained under this project with a view to seeking further World Bank funding.
47.   It will be expected, and an assurance sought from those HEIs who express interest in
participating in the Pilot Project, that full use will be made of the services and facilities listed above.
This participation would be especially important during the preparatory period.



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                    Page 53
Attachment 1
DRAFT FRAME OF REFERENCE FOR WINDOW 1
1.    According to the existing official disciplinary classification, higher education in Russia is
organized at two levels. In the first level (4-5 years) students can obtain "specialist diploma" or bachelors
degree in one of "directions"; in the second level (an additional 1-2 years) students can obtain "specialist
diploma" or masters degree in one of "specialities". Not all of these specialties exist in reality and
existing ones often have little resemblance to specializations with similar titles in Western universities.
2.     Classification used in Russia treats economics/management and social sciences/humanities as two
separate groups (see Tables 1 and 2). As for the higher education in social sciences and humanities, it
can be divided into four large disciplinary groups: philosophy and theology; philology and linguistics,
history and social sciences, and a group of a more applied social disciplines (social work, psychology,
law, regional studies) (see Table 2).
3.     Following formal disciplinary classification and taking into account the results of the qualitative
analysis of the contents of education in social sciences, provided by the World Bank experts' and the
Working Group of the Russian Government, the following eligibility criteria for participation in the
Window 1 of the Innovation Fund are established.
4.    In economics HEIs must satisfy one or more of the following criteria:
a.     enrolment and education of day-time students in the master degree program in economics;
b.    enrolment and education of day-time students in specialty 5216 "Economics";
c.    enrolment and education of day-time students in specialty 5223 "Information Systems in
Economics";
d.     enrolment and education of day-time students in specialty 0606 "World Economy;
e.    enrolment and education of day-time students in specialty 0601 "Theoretical economics";
f.     enrolment and education of day-time students in specialty 0607 "National economy";
g.     enrolment and education of day-time students in specialty 0618 "Mathematical methods
and operational research in economics";
5.    In sociology HEIs must satisfy one or more of the following criteria:
a.     enrolment and education of day-time students in the master degree program in sociology;
b.     enrolment and education of day-time students in specialty 0203 "Sociology";
c.    enrolment and education of day-time students in direction 5212 "Sociology".
6.    In political science HEIs must satisfy one or more of the following criteria:
a.     enrolment and education of day-time students in the master degree program in political
science;
b.     enrolment and education of day-time students in specialty 0202 "Political science";
s      See the report by Davies, Poletayev and Tate, Higher Education in Russia with Special Reference to
Economics and the Social Sciences.



Page 54                                                                                     Annex A
c.     enrolment and education of day-time students in direction 5209 "Political science".
7.     Preliminary lists of HEls matching at least one of these criteria in each discipline (as of December
1996) are given in Tables 3-5.
8.     The list covers all major HEIs providing education in social science in Russia. The list also has
a broad geographical coverage, including HEIs from all major educational centers all over the country.
The list includes HEIs of different types: classical universities, HEIs specializing in social sciences,
pedagogical HEls and even some technical universities providing social sciences education. HEls included
in the list also represent a different size groups, from relatively small regional HEIs to the largest national
universities.



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                              Page 55
.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Table 1. CLASSIFICATION OF ECONOMICS AND MANAGEMENT EDUCATION BY SPECIALITY
Bachelor (4 years) or specialist (4-  Code of   Specialist (4-5 years) or master (2    Code of
5 years)               direction    years for those with bachelor's    speciality
degree)
Economics                             5216    Theoretical economics                    0601
Information Systems in Economics    5223    World economy                              0606
National economy                       0607
Mathematical methods and               0618
perational research in economics
Agricultural economics                5221    Agricultural economics and               0609
l management
l Environmental economics               0603
Mangem__ nt                           5215  Management                                 0611
Industrial economics and               0608
management (by industry)
l Finance and credit                    0604
I X X 0= <01 fIX |~~~International economy                         XX0606
DocumState and  municipal management   0610
I __________________________        l _______   support  ofmManagem ent   in    social  sector  0612
Source:      E0602
|Commnerce                         |5220    Couec                                       0614
~~~~~~~~~~~~Mrketing                                                        0615
I                      r           F~~~~~~~~~~Comunodity research           0616
rStatistics                        r 5222  llStatistics                                 0617
r                      1           1l ~~~~~~~~~Accounting and audit         0605
l                      l           || ~~~~~~~~~Documentation and documentary  0613
l                      l           ll ~~~~~~~~support of management
Source: MGPE



Page 56                                                                                              Annex A
.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Table 2. CLASSIFICATION OF SOCIAL SCIENCES AND HUMANITIES EDUCATION BY SPECIALITY
Bachelor (4 years) or specialist (4-   Code of    Specialist (4-5 years) or master (2    Code of
5 years)                  direction      years for those with bachelor's       speciality
l__ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __   ___degree)
Philosophy                                5204      Philosophy                                  0201
Theology                                  5202
Religious studies                         5224      _
Philology                                 5203      Philology                                   0217
Literature studies                         0219
Linguistics                               5205      Linguistics                                 0218
Journalism                                5206      Journalism                                  0214
Book studies                              5207      Book studies                                0216
Publishing and editing                     0215
History                                   5208      History                                     0207
Archives                                   0208
Art studies                                0209
l Museums                                   0210
Cultural studies                          5201      Cultural studies                            0206
_________    Social anthropology                         0205
Political science                         5209      Political science                           0202
Intemational relations                     0212
Sociology                                 5212      Sociology                                   0203
Social work                               5211      Social work                             _     _0221
Public relations                       | 0220
Psychology                                5210      Psychology                              |_0204
Law                                       5214      Law _                                       0211
Regional studies                          5213      Regional studies                        l _0213
Source: MGPE



Table 3. Number of Students in Economics Programs                                                                                                                                                             Page 57
Masters degree
in progran of                             Speciality 5223 *Infoniation  Speciality 0606 'World    Speciality 0601 'Theoretical    Speciality 0607 "National   Speciality 0618 'Mathematical
_ _______________    Economuca    Specialit  5216 'Economics'    Systems in Economics'                   Econ                       Economics'                   Econam                Methods in Economics'
_ ____________ _                   ___       Aa pted       Total        Aa pte         Total       A    ted        Total       Ac pted        Total        Aa oted        Total       Accepted        Total
Day-         Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-         Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-
_ ______________    Allt                   All   dme   All             All  time   All  time   All  time   AAll timAll A                      lll time                 AAlltimeeAll                 All    me
1 Alta State University                         10    10    40       40 __                              
Alty State Technical
2 Univmrsity                                                                50    50    52    52    37    37    110   110
3 Amur State University                ===                                =26    26    50    50 =
4Bashkir State University                      112    92   222    163                                                              70    50   362    149  -                                           _
Blelgorod Co-Operative
5 Academy                                                                                              57    57   101   101
6 Volgograd State University                                                                           45    45    128   119    32    32    61    56
Volgograd State Technical
7 Universit                                    216   216   6581  658
All-Russian Academy of
8 Foreign Trade                -21    21    114   114                                                                                                                                                       - _
Volga State Academy of
9 Water Transport                              192   192   340   340                          _                                                                           _
10 Voronezh State University                    130   100   611   490
All-Russian Finance and
11 Economics Insdtute                                                                                                                                           50-         233-
12 Higher School of Economics     381   247   466   328   864    589                                                 _            _                                                                    _
13 State Oil and Gas Academy    _                42 -          42- 
State Academy of
14 Management                    ___65    65   332   332                                                                                -                     108    67   204      1 8    60    39   416   214
15 Dageata State University          _                                                                  37    37    195   195   146    118   348   253
Far East State Institute of
16 Technology                                                                  I _                      49    49   142   142                    _                                          17    17    60    60
17 Far East State University                    _                                        _              80    75   262   256                                                           I
18 Far East Commercial Institute  ____45    27    137    94 
19 Ivanovo Stat University                                                               __                  ===                                              20    15    87    47
lzhevsk State Technical
20 University                                    103   103   103   103                                 -
trkutsk State Academy of
21 Economy                                                                                              86    63   150   110    96    56   545   315
22 Irutik State University                       53    53    53    53                                   20    20   201   2011                                                              57    57   213   213
Irkutsk State Technical
23 Univcrsity                                                                                           57    57   101   101             _                                  _
KabsrdinoBalkariya State
24 UniversityBarySt                               12    12    12    12
Kraanoyarsk State Non-
25 FerauMetalsAcademy                                         _48    48   313   313                                                                                       _      _
Kazan State Technical
26 University                                    43    43    174    174    17    17    78    78                                   _                          _                                                _
27 Kazan State Universityq                                                                                   __                                                                           40    40    184   184
Kazan Finaner and Economic
28 Institute                                    360   360  1756   1756                                                              50-         2491-



Table 3. Number of Students in Economics Programs                                                                                                                                                                 Page 58
Masters degree
in program of                              Speciality 5223 HInfomation    Speciality 0606 "World    Speciality 0601 'Theoretical    Speciality 0607 'National   Speciality 0618 "Mathematical
Economics    Speciality 5216 'Economics'    Systems in Economics"             Economy"                    Economics'                   Economy'              Methods in Economicsa
_ ________________                 ___       Accepted        Total       Acc eted        Total       Accepted        Total       Accepted        Total       Acc ted         Total        Acrepted       Total
Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-           Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-
_ __All_dme_All_tiAll                       All           All                          ll All        ll All  Al AllAllltme   Ale All                         All  time   All  time   All  time   Al    t
Kemerovo Commercial
29 Institute                                     234      57    554    177                                 58     58     83     83
Kemerovo Technological
30 Instittte of Food Industry                     55      55    110    110                                                                                                               _
Komsomolsk-on-Amur State
31 Technical University                            26     26     261    26                                                           _                    _
32 Krasnoyarsk State University                    50     25     80    40                                  30     30    139    1391
33 Kuban State University                                                                                  36     36     78     78     40    20   206    91
Kuzbass State Techrical
34 University                                     118    118   333   333                          _                                                    
Kuzbass Institute of Economy
35 and Law                              _          181    18     181    18                                                                                                                           _
36 Kurgan State University                         85     85    305   305
International Institute of
37 Economics and Law          5_           _              51    172    172                                             _                   
Intemational Environment &
38 Human Resources University                     73      73    112    112                                                                                _                                    39     39    160    160
Moscow Agricultural
39 Academy                                                                                                                                                                                     77     77    220   220
Moscow State Inst. of
40 Electronics & Mathematics                                                                                                                                                                   26     26    152   152
Moscow Inst. of Economics
41 & Statistics                                                                                            33     33    166    166
Moscow State Academy of
42 Motor-Car & Tractor                             80     66    175   161
IMoscow Academy of Water
43 Transport                                       6      64    30     307
Mosc. State Academy of
44 PrindngArt _A                                  160    30   522       98
Moscow State University of
45 Mining                                          67     67    307   3071
46 Moscow State University         209    136   545   454   1474   1273             _                                                  20-          1061-
Moscow Commercial
47 University                       58    58   919   340  4536  1560                    1                 67     67    550    476
Moscow State Extra-Mural
48 Insttute of Food Industry                                                                                                           20-           71      8                                           1 _
Moscow State Institute of
49 International Relatons                                                                                  87     87   774    774
Moscow State Open
50 University                                                                                            178    113   533   420
_Moscow State University of
51 Forest Engeneering                                                                                     75     75    318    318
Mosocw University of Co-
5 2 Operation                                                                                            242    242   776   776
Nizhny Novgorod State
53 University                                    100    60   515   305                                                                IC       5     38     16    34      34    102    36                  _      _
Novosibirsk State Academy
54 of Economics & Management,                    261   261    945   945



Table 3. Nurnber of Students in Econonmics Programs                                                                                                                                                               Page 59
Masters degree
in program of                              Speciality 5223 "Infomation    Speciality 0606 "World    Speciality 0601 "Theoretical    Speciality 0607 'National   Speciality 0618 "Mathematical
Econo ics    Speciality 5216 'Economics"    Systems in Economics'             Ecor ny                     Economics"                   Economy'              Methods in Economics'
_ ________________                 ____    Accepted         Total        Acceisted      Total        Accepted        Total       Acc pted        Total       Accepted        Total        Accepted       Total
Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-           Day-          Day-
_                            All   time   All   time        All  time   All  time   All  time   All  time   All  time   All  time   All  time   All  time   All  time   All  time   All  time
55 Novosibirsk State University     57     57    193    193   618   618                                                                                                                        47     47    180    180
Novosibirsk Water Transport
56 Engeneering Institute                          54     54    110   110
Novocherkassk State
57 Technical University                                                        70    70    175    175                                                                                          32     32     98     98
Obninsk histitute of Nuclear
58 Power Energetics                               42      42    169    169                                             _
59 Omsk State University              _                                                                                                42     32    181    117   =
Omsk Engeneering Institute
60 of Railway Transport                                                                                   160    160    156    156
Penza State Technical
61 University                                                                                                                               _                                                  26     26     26    26
Penza Civil Engeneering
62 Institute   Eer                                             __                                                                                                                              25     25     25    25
63 Perm State University                                                                                                   I__         90    90    157    145                                  75     75   267   267
Russian State Humanitarian
64 University                                     65      65   341    341
Russian Academy of
65 Economics                                                                                               50    50    194    194 __20                                    20    40    40    74        49   434   256
Russian State Pedagogical
66 University                                                                                                                          55    55   278    278
The Russian People's
677 Friendship University           49    49       63     63   467   467
Russian University of
68 Chemistry and Technology    _____
Rostov State Academy of
69 Economics                                                                                               81     53    345    233                                215     16   601    211
70 Rostov State University                                                                                                            102    69   528   332                                    33     33    223    223
Ryazan State Academy of
71 Radioengineering                                                                                                 I _                                                                        21     21     21     21
Rybinsk State Aircraft
72 Technological Academy                                                       28    28    55    55
Samar State Academy of
73 Economics                                      24      24    47      47                                                             26    26    51    51        82    42   366   232
Samara State Technical
74 University                                      39     39    90      90
Saint-Petersburg State
75 Academy ofAerospace                   _                                     72     72   219   219 _                                                                                _
St.Petersburg State Academy
76 of Engineering Economics                        38     38     38    38 _____
StPetersburg Academy of
77 Forestry Engineering                            60     60   290   290
78 St.Petersburg State University  _____                                                                   57     35   357    175    119    67   475   238                                     74     54   282    188
St. Petersburg Institute of Fine
79 Mechanics and Optics                           60      60    147    147 
St. Petersburg State Technical
80 University                  _    _106    56   299    155    40    23   122                       79    70      50    119    49O



Table 3. Number of Students in Economics Programs                                                                                                                                                                 Page 60
Masters degree
in program of                              Speciality 5223 'Infomation    Speciality 0606 'World    Speciality 0601 "Theoretical    Speciality 0607 "National   Speciality 0618 "Mathematical
Economics    Specialiy 5216 'Economics"    Systems in Economics'              Economv                     Economics'                   Economy'              Methods in Economics'
_____   Accepted          Total       Acce ped        Total        Ac-epted       Total        Acce ted       Total        Accepted        Total       Accepted        Total
Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-          Day-           Day-          Day-
All   time   All  time   All  time   All   t             Al   time   All  time   All  time   All  time   All  time   All  timc   All  time   All  time   All  time
St.Petersburg State
81 Techooligical Institute                         271   27      27     27 __
St.Petersburg State Water
82 Transport University                            30     30    11I   111    30    30        87     87
St.Petersburg University of
83 Economics & Finance                                                                                     80     80   509   437                                   80     80   342   342       30     30    151    151
St.Petersburg State Water
84 Transport University
St.Petersburg Academy of
85 Economics and Finance                                                                                                               56     30    289    159
St.Petersburg State Marine
86 Technical University
Saratov State Academy of
87 Economics                                                                                               31    31    167    167    20       20     40     40
88 Saratov State University                                            _       25     25    58      581
Ssratov State Technical
89 University                                      17    17    32    32 
North-Ossetian State
90 University                                                                                              53    53      91    91                                                            _              _
Siberian State Academy of
91 Railway Transport                                                                                       25     25     26     26       1                    1                     1
ISiberian State Academy of
92 Telecommuications and lnf.                      32     32    57    57 
_Siberian State Academy of
93 Mining & Metallurgy                             77    27    105    55
_Sochi Resort Business &
94 Tourism Institute                                                                                       35     35    185    185
9   Stavropol State Technical
95 University                                     35 -           35 -
96 Surgut State University     _                  571   57    1931   193                                                             _                                                             ..
97 Syktyvkar State University         _          260    166   502    319 _1_
Taganrog State Radio
98 Technical University                            29    29      29    29    61       611  212    212
99 Tatarstan-Americal College            _        29    29    146   146                                  _      ___
Tver State Technical
100 University                                                                  97    42   278    147 1                                                           _                    __
101 Tomsk State University                     I                                                            68     60    199    166    13    13    66    66                                     64     64    125    125
Tomsk Polytechnical
102 University q                                    77     25    114    62                                                                                                                    _
103 Tula State University                           20    20      34     34    20      20     89     89                             _
104 Tumen State University                 =        46    46      46    46
1 05 Udmurt State University                                               .                                35     28     35     28             _          _                           _      _  
Ulyanovsk State Technical
106 University                                                                  38    38    83       83 1
Urals State Academy of
107 Mining and Geology                             46      45    164    162         _              _ 



Table 3. Number of Students in Economics Programs                                                                                                                                                                     Page 61
Masters degree
in program of                               Speciality 5223 'Infomation    Speciality 0606 "World     Speciality 0601 "Theoretical    Speciality 0607 'National   Speciality 0618 'Mathematical
Economics    Speciality 5216 'Economics'    Systems in Economics'               Economy'                    Economics"                   Econo                  Methods in Economics'
_________________                             A     ed        Total        Accepted        Total       Accepted        Total        Accepted        Total        Accepted        Total        Accepted        Total
Day-          Day-          Day-           Day-          Day-          Day-           Day-          Day-           Day-          Day-          Day-           Day-          Day-
_     _     _    _    _      All   time   All  time   All          time     All         All     time    All   time     All  time    All    time    All  time    All                I Al     time   All   time   All  time
Urals State Technical
108 University                                       28     14    29       15                                 76     52    184    138                                                               38      38     38     38
_   Urals State Professional
109 Pedagogical University                                                                                                                139     71    271    203
_   Urals State Economical
110 University                                                                                                55     55    243    243                                  119     93    409    285
111 Urals State University                           76     76    341    282                                                               15     15    45      45
Ufa State Aviation Technical
112 LLnive,rsig     _                                74     74    322    322     58      58    179    179
under the Russian federation
113 Government                                                                                _              110     86   597   485
Khabarovsk State Academy of
114 Economy and Law                                                                                           50     50    242   242
Khabarovsk State Technical
115 University                                                                                                             _                                                                        23     23      23     23
116 Khakassian State University                     160    91    241    149
Chelyabinsk State Technical
117 University                        _              70     39    186    122     25      25     67     67                                                                                                            1 _
118 Chelyabinsk State University                                                                              63     31    343    140 _       _        =__
119 Chuvash State University                                                                                  43     43    145    145    174      61    612   285
Chuvash Agricultural
120 Academy                                                                                                                                                            23            168-
121 Yakut State University                                                                                    29     29    110    110 IC                                   _
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 4=~                                                                                                          - -    



Page 62                                                                                       Annex A
...................................................................................................................................................................... ..................................................................................................... ..... ....................
Table 4. Number Of Students In Sociology Programs
Speciality 0203 "Sociology"         Direction 5212 "Sociology"
Acce ted           Total           Acce pted            Total
All     Day-    All    Day-    All         Day-       All      Day-
time            time               time               time
1 Altai State University          83       28    433    220            5        5         10      10
2 Amur State University            28       28      28      28               _
3 Bashkir State University         80       51      80      51        30       30         60      60
4 State Academy of                 26       26     178    178
Management
5 Ivanovo State Energetics         17       17      57      57
University                _
6 Irkutsk State Technical           7        7      18      18
University
7 Kazan State University           29       29     120    120
8 Kuban State University           59       29     237    103
9 Lipetsk State Technical          17       17      28      28
University         =   x
10 International Pedagogical         34       34      34      34
University
11 Moscow State Pedagogical University                                 91       91       431      431
12 Moscow State University        216       168     909    720
13 Moscow State Social              55       49     359    237
Institute                         _                 _
14 Nizhny Novgorod Sate             29       29      55      55        55       55         55      55
l    University                                      l
15 Novosibirsk State                                                   33       33        115     115
University                                           l
16 Perm State Technical              29      29       91      91
University                                           l
17 Russian University of            18       18      18      18
,Chemistry & Technology                                       _
18 The Russain People's Friendship University                          37       37         84      84
19 Rostov State University          27       27     133    133_
20 St.Petersburg State              11       11      69      69
Academy of Culture        l          l               l
21 St.Petersburg State              63       63     177    177
Institute of Marine
Technology                l          l               l
22 St.Petersburg State             110       59    479    289
University                L         l                l
23 Samara State University          55       28     269    129



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                                                                                    Page 63
.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Speciality 0203 "Sociology"                             Direction 5212 "Sociology"
____________________                            Acce pted                   Total                   Accented                         Total
All    Day-    All   Day-    All    Day-                                           All    Day-
time                     time                        time                          time
24 Saratov State Academy of                            20            20    106    106
Economics
25 Saratov State University                            30            30           57          57
26 North-Assetian State                                 18                        29
_University
27 Tver State University                               30            30           58          58
28 Tomsk State University                               19           19           85          85
29 Udmurt State University                             37            37           98          98
30 Ural State Professional                             31            31           70          56
Pedagogical University                                                           I
31 Urals State University                               29               1   195              28             46            46             145          145
Source: MGPE



Page 64                                                                                       Annex A
...................................................................................................................................................................I.....................................................................
Table 5. Number Of Students In Political Science Programs
Speciality 0202 "Politology"        Direction 5209 "Politology"
Ac epted           Total            Acc  ted        Total
All    Day-    All  Day-time   All    Day-            All      Day-
time                                time               time
1 Altai State University                                          55        27        80       27
2 Baltic State Technical      29        29      29        29
University
3 Bashkir Academy of          18                18
Management
4 Volgograd Academy of        20        20      42        42
Management                                                         I
5 Far Eastern State           42        12    223        123
University                                                _
6 Irkutsk State               28        28      791       79
Pedagogical Institute  |       I  _     I___L
7 Moscow State                24        24      65        65       48       48       188      188
University            L__ 1               L         L
8 Nizhny Novgorod             23        23      55        55       27       27        27       27
State University                _                                   _         ___
9 Russian State               17        17      17        17       33       33        33       33
Humanitarian
Universityi
|10Rostov State                58        28     137       107
University             I       I        I        I
1 1 St.Petersburg State        42        21    141         77       38       38        58       58
University                                _      |_                                     _______
12 Tomsk State                 20        20      61        61
University
13 Urals State University      22        22      22        22      144       52       306      136
14 Shuya State                  12       12      12        12
Pedagogical Institute
15 Yaroslavl State             25        25     117       114
University
Source: MGPE



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                 Page 65
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Education Innovation Project
ANNEX B
SCHOOL TEXTBOOK REFORM COMPONENT
1.    The following description of the current situation in Russian textbook creation and supply is based
on a series of studies which were carried out under the Project (the analysis of textbook procurement
funding in 26 Regions, availability of textbooks in 8 Regions, analysis of the composition and formation
process of the Federal list of textbooks etc.). Discussion of preliminary results at a representative
conference in Golytsino (November 1995), at a seminar for the heads of Regional Education Authorities
(Kaliningrad, February 1996), as well as meetings with selected education system workers, publishers
and experts have made it possible to draw an accurate picture of the current situation in textbook creation
and supply in Russia.
Availability of Textbooks in Second Cycle Schools
2.    A selective survey of the availability of textbooks in schools in various regions in Russia has
shown that schools are generally well-provided with the necessary number of textbooks with the exception
of certain individual disciplines (e.g., foreign languages). Despite this there are immediately underlying
factors presenting very serious threats to the quality of education offered to Russian children in the public
education system.
3.    A systemic undersupply of "Federal List" textbooks ordered by schools over the past three years
has resulted in a drastic increase in the average Me of textbooks which is now approaching the upper
limit of permitted and feasible use. Stocks are old and are now rapidly depleting. The implication is that
in the next one or two years textbooks will need replacing on a much heavier scale than at the old
optimum annual rate of 25 per cent. Further, the technical characteristics (especially binding) of some
recently published textbooks prohibit use for the full four year period. Such new textbooks are bound
to "paperback" standards, glued rather than sewn, thus reducing classroom durability and adding to
textbook needs.
4.    The need for a large scale replacement of textbooks is determined by qualitative as well as
quantitative factors. The content of some textbooks included in the Federal List is not consistent with
modern methodological requirements. This applies not only to human and social sciences. There are many
cases when there is a lack of continuity between different textbooks within a single course of study and
between courses. Many textbooks published over the past few years are not supported by the necessary
teachers', supplementary and resource books. Most textbooks are poorly illustrated and the quality of
printing is far below that of established foreign textbook systems. This is underlined by the conclusions
of the Project's analysis of the Federal list and with the results of an opinion poll conducted among
teachers in various regions.  These findings underline the need for greater choice and for more
coordinated publishing and evaluation programs.
5.    Research indicates a current requirement for new textbooks, new editions and reprints of available
textbooks at over 300 million units, at least double the "normal" annual need for textbook renewal. The
cost of materials and printing alone, of such a number, is of the order of $400 - 500 million at current



Page 66                                                                          Annex B
prices excluding new textbook creation and promotion costs.
Funding Textbook Provision for Second Cycle Schools
6.    The MGPE estimates the optimum requirement for the Federal List of textbooks for schools in
the 1996/7 academic year at approximately R 1.5 trillion ($300 million). The differential between this
figure and that above is the result of conceptual difference - the Ministry is concerned only to replace
redundant stock while the total figure includes replacement of inappropriate, unsatisfactory and badly
produced titles.
7.    Textbook procurement will now be funded from the budgets of the Regional Education
Authorities. The Federal budget for 1996 includes R 500 billion ($100 million) of financial assistance
to the Regions for these purposes, which has been confirmed by Government Resolution. The
fundamental change in 1996 was that funds were provided directly to the Regions instead of the old
practice of channeling the budgetary loan (provided to the Regions) through the MGPE for the payment
of the centralized order. The new procedure makes it possible for any Region to order textbooks directly
or on a centralized basis through the MGPE if it finds this arrangement convenient and transfers the funds
to the MGPE.
8.    Regions raise funds variously, but primarily from their own budgets, debiting respective amounts
to Rayon budgets. In 1995, the ratio of Regions' own resources to loans from the Federal budget was
1:1. In 1996, the ratio was weighted heavily towards Regional budgets.
9.    Other financial sources are few. Contributions from sponsors and parents are difficult to estimate
because they are not centralized (contributions from parents are accumulated and remain at the school
level). Surveys indicate that from 20 to 40 per cent of parents could afford to pay for the set of textbooks
and individual regions (Kabardino-Balkaria for one) make successful use of this source. Loan schemes
for parents (where textbooks are lent for a small charge) or buy-back from parents at the end of the
academic year are not practiced.
10.   Sponsor contributions from international charity organizations, primarily the Soros Foundation,
are used to develop new textbooks rather than procure textbooks for schools. Most, perhaps the majority,
of recently published new textbooks have been created with the financial support of the Soros Foundation.
Institutional and Economic Description of the Textbook Publishing Sector
11.   As with nearly all Central and Eastern European countries Russia is in the early and most
traumatic stage of the transition from a centralized education and textbook supply system. The main
characteristics are:
*     A switch from a single-source to multichannel (central, regional, local, parents and sponsors)
financing of textbook procurement and delivery. Financing is already transferred from the
MGPE;
*     Development of decentralized ways of ordering textbooks. Direct contractual relations between
regions and publishing houses are gradually replacing the system of centralized orders
implemented by the MGPE;



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                    Page 67
*     An increase in the choice of textbooks and education programs;
*     Reduction of the textbook monopoly held by PROSVESCHENIYE and rapid reduction in
dependence on the State distribution monopoly of ROSKNIGA (with real and potential cost
benefits). There is a growing number of independent publishers. However, with one exception,
they still provide only a small percentage of the Federal list of textbooks.
The State of the Educational Book Market
12.    The textbook publishing sector has been substantially liberalized over the past few years as
follows: participation of independent publishers in the Federal List; availability of a choice within the
Federal List; multichannel funding; opportunities to sign direct contracts with publishers instead of the
system of centralized orders through the MGPE; open market prices for textbooks available in the
marketplace. As a result of general economic and MGPE reforms textbook publishing has become
substantially market-oriented.
13.   At the same time the education book (and related materials) market is still only at a formative
stage. The education market remains restricted, first of all, by the financial frailty of most of its major
participants (neither publisher nor customer have sufficient financial resources to ensure regular and stable
delivery of textbooks to schools), and secondly, by the lack of a well-developed market information
infrastructure permitting the consumer to access up-to-date information on textbooks published or in
preparation ,thus permitting the adequate consumer choice.
14.   The majority of education publishers are recently established with inadequate working capital
for the production of very large printings of textbooks. This is a particular problem for Russia in
comparison with East and Central Europe. Russia has a school population in excess of the total population
of any of those countries except Poland.
15.   High interest rates and low levels of collateral make the financing of the massive printings of
books in the Federal list especially daunting. Unless this is redressed there will remain a serious threat
of either continued monopoly or a proliferation of smaller regional publishers working on smaller
printings. In either case choice and quality standards will suffer in the medium term. Currently
prepayment covering the cost of paper and printing is the only way for publishing houses to produce long
print runs. Lack of funding resources in the Regions and the stressed financial position of most publishing
houses, arrears of payment and the need to maintain low prices do not permit publishers to earn the added
value necessary to build up working capital and to effectively promote their textbooks on the market.
16.   What is now by far the largest customer group, the Regional Education Authorities, also has
problems of resourcing and timing the funding for textbooks. Some, in the Moscow and Petersburg
Regions for example, are well funded, others are not. Funds for the procurement of textbooks are not,
in most cases, allocated on a systematic basis. In the absence of a clear regulatory framework defining
responsibilities and specifying the financial source for the provision of textbooks to schools, regional
administrations sometimes wait for subsidies and centralized loans from the Federal Budget before
allocating funds for textbooks from their own budgets. Given the seasonal nature of the textbook market
and the production cycle that implies (particularly if prepayment must be made) the present system does
not guarantee sustainable provision of textbooks. There is some evidence that at least some regions are
aware of this and are taking measures which may partially redress this situation.



Page 68                                                                            Annex B
17.   The financial weakness of all the major market participants (publishers, printers, Regions and
schools) makes it very difficult to develop an infrastructure capable of furnishing the consumer with the
required information on the availability of existing and forthcoming textbooks. The increasing variety of
textbooks and methodological approaches and the opportunity for informed selection have created demand
for much more information on which to base orders for textbooks. Information on price, terms of
delivery and payment, series continuity, teachers', supplementary and resource materials etc. all needs
to be available in a consolidated and accessible form.
The Role of the Federal Authorities in Managing the Development of the Textbook Publishing System
18.   The transformation of the textbook publishing system is not a controlled process. The MGPE
has neither the resources nor the leverage necessary to manage educational materials development or
quality control:
*     There is no legislative framework ensuring that schools use books consistent with approved
programs and required technical standards. Publishers entering the market rarely have experience
of publishing textbooks for schools incorporating these requirements. Roskompechat and
(theoretically) the Bureau of Sanitary Epidemiological Surveillance are nominally responsible for
maintenance of standards but there is no legislative framework for such monitoring. Neither the
Federal Expert Council, charged with maintenance of textbook standards, nor the MGPE has
clear authority to do this. Under the Law on Education teachers are free to select education
literature for teaching his/her subject. Even the Federal list can be imposed only through central
purchase or the traditional respect in which it is held.
*     A methodological framework is not in place. Neither National Education Standards nor testing
systems have been applied. The procedure for the creation and updating of the Federal List is
insufficiently transparent and objective. The Federal list is not an integrated system, but merely
an order form for the centralized supply of textbooks to be supplied in the current the year. The
compilation of the Federal list is unsystematic. The Federal Expert Council does not have an
objective basis for selecting textbooks (National Education Standards) and makes
recommendations to approve (or disapprove) textbooks without clear connection to the whole
education literature package in a given discipline. Nor does it apply consistent criteria or numeric
scoring to ensure objectivity and comparability or evaluate design and production quality and
price. It is common for a teacher who starts using a new textbook to find no consistent follow-up
textbook for the next academic year encouraging conservative choice of well-tried but outdated
materials with consequent constraint on educational development;
*     There is no sustainable financial basis for resolving these problems. If the responsibility for
improving the quality of educational materials is vested in the Federal Authorities then the federal
budget must have provisions for the effective formation of the Federal List, including preparation
of innovative textbook programs, the issue and testing of pilot and trial editions, retraining of
teachers and so on. Such funds are not available.
Implications and Dangers
19.   On the basis of the above analysis it can be seen that without the legal, institutional and financial
means to enable the Federal Government to influence development of a market based educational
materials supply sector there are numerous potentially negative implications.



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                  Page 69
*     Potential deterioration of the quality of education and of the common education space as schools
turn to "local" or cheaper low-quality textbooks inconsistent Federal education and hygienic
standards;
*     Deterioration of the quality of textbooks and course materials. Retention of out-dated and inferior
materials in the absence of tested, innovative new materials;
*     Intensification of uncontrolled blackmarket trends in the textbook publishing sector (piracy,
spurious recommendations, hijacking of authors and other typical negative features of
uncontrolled change);
*     Lowering of standards of production and design and of durability. Use of inappropriate materials
and printing machinery. Eventual increase in total system cost and adverse effect on children's
wellbeing;
*     Inability to achieve National Education Standards on a consistent, nationwide base due to poor
textbooks;
*     Encouragement of diverse and centrifugal curricula and textbook content undermining the high
common standards of school education;
a     Continuation of the central monopoly because only one real competitor to the State Publishing
House has emerged
Summary Conclusions and Recommendations
20.   In order to speed up the reform of the textbook publishing sector, improve the quality of
education and avert the dangerous consequences of uncontrolled transition processes it is necessary to:
*     Strengthen and improve the role of the Federal authorities in the process of directing the
development of market based textbook publishing as a common national resource center ensuring
the development of the methodological basis of education, improvements in textbook quality, the
awareness of national standards and compliance with these;
*     Create improved economic conditions for the operation and development of the textbook
publishing market by facilitating the formation of market infrastructures and strengthening major
participants;
*     Take urgent steps to ensure mass replacement of worn-out and/or outdated textbooks.
21.   Additional expenditure from the Federal and Regional budgets will be required during the
transition period that will permit:
*     Establishment of a market information infrastructure;
*     Renewal of the content of education by developing and publishing textbooks consistent with
contemporary requirements;



Page 70                                                                          Annex B
*     The formation of an institutional and methodological basis for preserving the common education
space in the textbook field thus providing a nationwide impact on the quality of education;
Project Objectives and Tasks
22.   The proposed Education Innovation Project would have a component which would be a modest
step in addressing the complexities of supply and demand in the textbook market in Russia. The School
Textbook Reform Component would improve the quality and supply of textbooks through: the provision
of electronic information and book ordering systems; training and equipment for both the MGPE and
regional educational administrations. The project would, in addition, strengthen educational standards
and create new textbook titles; and equity of access to timely information on new and improved textbooks
throughout the RF for schools, parents and students.
Specific Project Tasks
*     To establish a logical system of authority, responsibility and accountability of, respectively, the
Federal and Regional Education Authorities concerning the choice, purchase and supply of
textbooks and other educational literature for secondary schools;
*     To establish a system for textbook quality monitoring including Federal list renewal and
replacement and extension consistent with increased choice of books and other educational
options;
*     To establish a nationwide market information infrastructure that would ensure directed and
rational decision-making in textbook ordering together with real time interaction between
customers and producers.
*     To train  education managers and practitioners in the use of the textbook ordering and
information system.
Subcomponent One: Textbook Quality Improvement
23.   The improvement and development of the system of National Education Standards is a key
Subproject whose principal task in the context of general textbook reform is to establish a basis for a
consistent development of the education content, an objective system of textbook quality assurance and
a purposeful updating and extension of the Federal list of Textbooks.
24.   The subcomponent aims to further the work on Standards already initiated by the Russian
Government.  It is directed towards the solution of: (a) the key conceptual issues; and (b) the
experimental trialling of major mechanisms to establish, put in place and periodically review and update
national educational standards and the examinations/tests related to them. The subcomponent is expected
to provide a plan for the establishment and institutional framework for a nationally acceptable system of
standards and tests.
25.   The project would analyze the current status of the National System of Standards and Tests and
would formulate ways to improve and develop the National System of Standards and related Tests. Based
on international experience, it would help to prepare and pilot models for standards and associated tests
for selected disciplines and education levels. The project would also seek to identify user requirements



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                 Page 71
in for both secondary and higher education products, as well as the requirements of education literature
creators (authors, publishers) of the system of standards and tests. Procedures for the development,
approval and periodic updating of the system of standards and tests would be developed.
26.   The other part of this subcomponent would address the evaluation and validation of textbooks and
other educational materials through the managerial and technical reform of the Federal Expert Council.
This reform would focus on the development of revised functions for the Federal Expert Council which
would create a more effective and nationally respected and understood Approved list. This Approved
List would, in turn, provide the basis for the Federal List and, eventually, become the only list from
which schools could obtain guidance in choosing their textbooks. It is assumed that the Federal Expert
Council would resume its developmental role in textbook and curriculum innovation; and that the Council
and the Ministry of General and Professional Education would have complementary functions in the
creation and dissemination of information on textbooks approval and the structure and use of the
Approved List.
27.   The project would address the restructuring of the Council to include: the introduction of a Board
of Management with improved operational methods and equipment; the revision and enhancement of the
evaluation methods of the Council to ensure more transparent, objective and comparable standards of
evaluation;the introduction of specific procedures for the selection of evaluators; the introduction of
numerically based weighted criteria for evaluation; the evaluation of design and production standards and
of prices; and substantial training in all these areas;
Subcomponent Two: Renewal of the Federal List
28.   The analysis of textbooks recommended by the Ministry of General and professional Education
(the Federal list of Textbooks) will permit identification of courses and subjects which lack textbooks
and/or are in need of renewal. It will also provide for the revision of the Federal list of Textbooks with
potential to exclude those textbooks which are outdated and do not correspond to modern requirements,
textbooks which are not supported by the requisite methodological and supplementary materials, textbooks
which prevent the development of methodologically integrated curricula on given subjects, and of
textbooks which are not coordinated with the other textbooks at the same levels.
29.   In addition to the main objective, the analysis of the Federal list of Textbooks will also facilitate
certain functions in terms of the project implementation as a whole. First, the analysis is intended to
identify a list of textbooks which are in the greatest need of being replaced, and of subjects which need
a more varied choice of textbooks within the limits of the Federal list. These lists will be used in the
process of a competition to develop new educational literature. Second, in the course of the analysis, a
methodology will be tested for a comprehensive evaluation of textbooks with a potential for subsequent
use in practical activities of the Federal Expert Council.
30.   This subcomponent would address the need for "new generation" textbooks through the
application of a competitive selection process for grants for manuscript development by authors and for
pre-press and promotional/informational work by publishers. Following this selection, competitive bidding
to produce the new titles would be organized for publishing houses selected on experience and merit.
Successful bidders would obtain the right to publish the new textbooks and receive grants for the
preparation of final film, additional materials, issue and dissemination of pilot printings and/or promotion
of the new books on the market (advertisement, seminars, etc.).



Page 72                                                                          Annex B
31.   The competition for the development of new textbooks will:
*     provide for a significant updating and extension of the Federal list (tentatively, 4 cycles of 30-40
titles each; 150 new titles upon the completion of the Project);
*     develop a model for interaction between the Ministry, authors, publishers and Federal Expert
Council to develop textbooks and to improve the quality of education literature;
*     accelerate authors' and publishers' experience in working in market conditions in both the
textbook development and distribution sectors;
*     test, on a pilot basis, new methods for integrated evaluation of textbooks to be developed in the
course of the project;
*     promote demonopolization of the textbook publishing market through assisting new publishers
to establish themselves on the market.
Subcomponent Three: Textbook Information System
32.   This subcomponent has two main elements aimed at improving information and choice. It would
ensure that teachers have access to new textbooks and programs, and that regions have an opportunity
to make reasonable selections and orders for textbooks.
33.   One of the most essential element of the textbook market development is the creation of an
information infrastructure providing the consumer and the contractor with complete and trustworthy
information about the educational literature available in the market. The need for the development of such
a data base and for its associated catalog is especially pressing as the textbook ordering function is
being transferred from the MGPE to the regions.
34.   At present, there are large numbers of databases and catalogs on education literature. They are
developed by governmental and non-governmental organizations including libraries, publishing houses,
and education establishments. However, there is no Master Catalog or Database containing the description
of all education books and the results of the evaluation reports of the Federal Expert Council. As a result
of the transition to a decentralized scheme of textbook order formation, the need for such publication is
great.
35.   The subcomponent would include the initiation and dissemination of a catalog of educational
materials in traditional and electronic formats. The development, publication and dissemination of the first
edition only (software and database development for the electronic version) would also be included.
Subsequent editions would be self-repaying, and designed to make a profit from advertising by publishers
and education materials suppliers.
36.   The project would finance:
*     the collection of information and the creation of a data base, including the development of
software and equipment of a center to deal with the data base;
*     creation of data base updating system;



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                 Page 73
*     development, commercial production and circulation and the first edition of the "Catalog of
textbooks available for sale".
37.   The second part of this subcomponent would be the development of a National Textbook Ordering
Network, a computer network created to link education authorities starting from, the Rayon level, to
disseminate and exchange information on textbooks and education literature. Publishing houses, libraries
and pedagogical education institutions would be encouraged to join the network. The system would
increase teachers' access to new textbooks and programs, and provide the regions with an opportunity
to make reasonable selections in placing textbook orders.
38.   The project would finance:
*     A review of the current technological conditions of regional communication networks, identifying
the amount and nature of information transmitted, etc.;
*     Selection of optimal technological decisions. Tentatively, it seems better to divide information
flows into two channels. In this case information from the center to the regions could be delivered
using teletext technologies which would make it economically and technologically accessible
throughout Russia. The counterflow of information from users to the center and exchange of
information could be arranged using conventional telephone lines on the basis of a Russian
telecommunication system.
*     Selection of hardware and software;
e     Development of a time schedule for the establishment and introduction of the system;
3     Development and formation of the system's institutional structure, including the establishment of
a Data Center to collect, process, store and transmit information;
3     Project implementation proper, including equipment procurement and installation, personnel
training, etc.
Sub-component Four: Training
39.   This subcomponent would support  training programs for regional and local education
administrators in new market-led textbook ordering and information systems. It would concentrate on
exchange of experience and dissemination of information on resolving the problems of textbook provision
for schools (contractual relations, use of additional resources, ways to reduce textbook prices, delivery
and dissemination costs, use of local capacities etc. together with methods of fund raising).  Some
indication of the number of personnel who would require retraining can be obtained from the number
of Rayon Education Departments (2500), together with Central and Regional Education Departments and
Ministries, Teachers' Retraining Centers and Pedagogical Universities and Departments and by the size
of the country.
Commitments by Government Necessary for Project Implementation
40.   The projects described in this memorandum can not be successfully implemented without the
commitment in principle by the GOR to a number of measures related to the preservation and



Page 74                                                                         Annex B
enhancement of nationwide standards of school education. These are:
*     Clarification of the respective roles of the Federal and Regional Governments in textbook
creation, evaluation and supply. The regions are now responsible from their own budgets
(whether or not centrally supported) for the purchase and supply of school textbooks. The
maintenance of all-Russian textbook quality can only be effected through institutions which are
centrally based - specifically the MGPE and the Federal Expert Council. Without prejudice to the
content of local curricula or the submission of local materials for evaluation this should be agreed
between the central and regional authorities and made clear to schools.
*     Re-structuring of the Federal Expert Council: To ensure nationwide acceptance of quality
standards of textbooks approved and recommended for use in schools both the status and
operational basis of the Federal Expert Council require reform and the Council's work to have
a much higher public profile.
Expected Outputs and Efficiency of the Project
41.   The School Textbook Reform Component of the Education Loan has an integrated and
multipurpose nature. Its implementation should also have an integrated impact on the current problems
of supply, quality and financing of textbooks in the Russian compulsory education system. In assessing
project efficiency it is necessary to consider:
X     it is a pilot project (bearing in mind the size of Russia and the loan) which is mainly aimed at
developing new market related models and schemes in the textbook publishing sector;
*     The Project is not expected to revolutionize the textbook publishing sector but, within the sector's
existing trends, to speed up an already initiated process. It is designed to reduce the negative
aspects of the transition period and make the it more controllable and efficient.
Institutional Changes
*     A new scheme of textbook ordering for schools will be established under which customers/regions
have direct contractual relations with producers/publishers;
*     A modern information infrastructure is established for the textbook publishing market under
which customers have complete information on educational books and related materials available
on the market and an opportunity to maintain real-time contact with producers.
*     The process of new textbook development and approval restructured to guarantee openness and
textbook quality monitoring by the education community. This will increase the authority of the
Approved and (if retained) Federal Lists as a major component of the common education space.
Social (Educational System) Effects
*     A new model for Approved List creation, monitoring and updating is tested which meets present-
day conditions and the requirements of the democratic society which will:
*     facilitate the preservation of the common education space despite differences in school type and



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                 Page 75
national and regional diversity;
*     guarantee the quality of education despite many variables and the free choice of teaching methods;
*     form the basis for the elaboration and development of curricula and provide objective assessment
of new textbooks and the Approved List.
*     improve the objectivity of the textbook and manuscript evaluation procedure on the basis of a
more formal set of criteria;
*     guarantee the integrity of the textbooks included in the Approved List and increase the publishing,
variety and availability of new methodological and supplementary materials;
*     Strengthen the means whereby the Federal education authorities and the wider education
community can contribute to creating a methodological center responsible for maintaining and
improving the quality of education.
*     The process of outdated textbook replacement and increase in the choice of educational options
will be accelerated (it is assumed that 150 new textbooks would be created and issued over 4
years within the framework of the project). This will form the basis for a fundamental
improvement in the quality of education.
Economic Effects
*     The devolution of customers' functions to oblast education authorities simultaneously with
implementation of a nationwide retraining program will facilitate reduction of both financial and
time costs associated with textbook provision for schools by:
*     professional compilation of orders and contract-making between regions and publishers;
*     use of market mechanisms to reduce the cost of delivery and attract additional financial
resources;
*     Make economies through more efficient use of local structures and capacities.
Project Administration
42.   The management of the School Textbook Reform component has two features: firstly it is an
integrated project which assumes a coordinated implementation of five relatively independent
subcomponents. Therefore, the availability of a specialized structure for operational project management
is critical to its successful implementation; secondly it is a pilot project which requires analysis of project
progress and mid-term results, together with continuous intensive monitoring of the project in relation
to changing Russian conditions.
43.   The project assumes several competitions and/or sets of bidding. Results of most subcomponents
will be subject to review and general discussion and comment within the education community.



Page 76                                                                            Annex B
Institutional Functions and Tasks
a.     Preparation of documents defining competitions and bidding conditions, selection
principles and criteria, expert and selection committee formation and operation
procedures;
b.     Organization of bidding: establishment of expert and selection committees, publication
of bidding information, collection of bids and materials, routine work with bidders,
expert committee support, etc.;
c.    signing contracts with the executors of individual subcomponents and supervision of their
implementation: timing, compliance with TORs, quality (based on reviews);
d.     Holding seminars to discuss the results of individual subcomponents;
e.     Organization of the implementation of the retraining program;
f.     Coordination and synchronization of activities conducted within individual sub-projects.
44.   Analytical Functions and Tasks
a.     Assessment of progress in the implementation of the project and its individual parts,
preparation of reports and analytical notes for a Strategy Committee (or any other body
to be established by Governmental Resolution to manage the project);
b.    Analysis and forecasting of the situation in textbook publishing, institutional and
economic conditions affecting project implementation and machinery for project
adjustments.'
45.   Financial and Economic Functions and Tasks
a.     Management of funds allocated for individual project components;
b.     Analysis, audit and reporting under the budget of the project and its components;
c.     Analysis of estimates and budgets submitted by executors under individual project
components and search for ways to reduce costs;
d.    Compliance monitoring of the schedule of interest payment and loan repayment from
internal project sources;
The need for such a function is dictated by the rate of changes in the secondary education system, as
well as economy and legislation as a whole which is typical of the transition period.



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                    Page 77
Technical Functions and Tasks
46.   One of the project elements, the establishment of the computer network to disseminate and
exchange information on available textbooks and order education literature, includes the procurement of
a large quantity of equipment. Such a large-scale procurement of technologically interrelated versatile
machinery requires special attention to avoid technical omissions with potential serious financial losses,
or vice versa, where professional solutions might deliver significant savings and quality improvement.
Similar, smaller scale, situations may affect other components.
"External Political" Functions and Tasks
a.     A number of project components assume decision-making at the federal level (national
education standards and testing, Federal Expert Council). The preparation and timely
adoption of such decisions requires intensive work in collaboration with responsible
governmental departments;
b.     One of the project's major objectives is to assist the democratic reform of education in
Russia. Therefore, it is necessary to maintain close contacts with the education
community in the course of project implementation, involving the widest circles of the
community in project implementation.



Page 78                                                                         AnnexC
RUSSLAN FEDERATION
Education Innovation Project
ANNEX C
PILOT TEXTBOOK PROCUREMENT FUND
Textbook Publishing - Background
1.    The decision that the Federal Budget would no longer finance centralized procurement of textbook
publishing and a gradual devolution of funding responsibilities to the regional level has brought about
institutional changes in the purchasing and financing of new textbooks for secondary schools. The MGPE
previously selected books to be published and distributed to schools, based upon the aggregation of
orders from school systems nation-wide, and organized the publication of these books by placing direct
orders to particular publishing houses. This system led to a lag of two years between the selection of texts
at the school level and the delivery of textbooks. Today, regions have assumed responsibility for selecting
and paying for secondary school textbooks and they now select titles and place orders for these texts
directly with publishers. While the time gap between ordering and delivery has been reduced, there
remain several serious impediments to both textbook updating and the development of a competitive
publishing industry. These include (inter alia) barriers to entry of new publishers and a general lack of
incentives to develop, publish and purchase new textbooks.
Issues
Textbook Supply
2.    Prosveschenie Publishing House, a state-owned company which published 100% of education
literature for secondary schools before 1993, still holds a near-monopoly in the Russian textbook
publishing market. Moreover, now that public control over textbook publishing is reduced, the
underdeveloped market allows Prosveschenie to issue outdated education literature rather than new books
which would incur additional costs in order to comply with international standards and stricter
requirements concerning textbook printing design. The ability of Prosveschenie to issue old textbooks,
for which it has sole copyright, at relatively low prices still gives it substantial market power . This
situation deters the development of new textbooks and therefore inhibits curriculum reform.
3.    Some regions have sought to break this monopoly by directing business to a new single publisher
at the local or oblast level so as to capture the local education literature market with a local company.
Often these companies are interested only in gaining a foothold in the market not in improving textbook
quality or in developing new textbooks; therefore they prefer to "buy over" authors of existing
textbooks.
4.    On a national level, one large private publishing house has begun to compete with Prosveschnie.
These two houses together dominate the market and own the copyrights for about 90 % of all textbooks
included in the Federal Set. The other 10% are published by small independent firms specializing in
education literature. The success of these publishers in issuing high-quality textbooks at relatively low
prices indicates the possibility of change but a much greater effort is necessary to bring about sustainable
reform.



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                   Page 79
Lack of Working Capital for Publishers
5.    The development of competition is impeded by the financial inability of new independent
publishers to publish mass print-runs of their textbooks, since the time gap between the payment of
materials and printing costs (which constitute 80% of the textbook cost) and payments by customers is
at least 4-6 months. Moreover, many regions do not pay promptly. These publishers find it difficult to
borrow working capital. Interest rates are generally in excess of 48 % in rubles or about 25% in hard
currency while inflation was approximately 22% in 1996. Even at these rates, publishers face difficulty
in obtaining loans due to: (i) a lack of assets which could be used as security for loans taken to issue a
mass print-run; (ii) delays in customers' payments, particularly where the customer is a regional
administration; and (iii) a lack of interest by the banking sector in financing Russian enterprises in general
due to more favorable opportunities, at least until recently, to earn high rates of return buying
government securities. The reduction of the bank interest rate for commercial loans that is expected in
the coming year due to the greater macroeconomic stabilization and the opening up of the government
debt market to foreigners, may help somewhat. However, access of small publishers to loans would still
be limited by their lack of assets for collateral.
Demand for Textbooks
6.    Regions are also constrained in the purchase of new textbook titles by a general lack of finance.
Even when federal funds have been made available for textbooks, anecdotal evidence suggests that such
funds are used for other purposes such as salary payments to teachers. Less than half of the funds
allocated to the regions were actually transferred to publishers as payments for textbooks. No mechanism
exists which could guarantee a "fair" distribution of the funds between the regions.
Summary
7.    While the prerequisites for establishing a competitive textbook market (education liberalization,
an opportunity for users to select textbooks and programs, transition to direct relations between customers
and producers, etc.) are theoretically in place, the market is actually split between two companies. This
situation inhibits textbook updating (and, hence, curricular reform), restricts choice, has a detrimental
effect on the quality of printing design and threatens unwarranted price increases for textbooks.
Pilot Textbook Procurement Fund
8.     This component would finance the purchase of textbooks for any region desiring such assistance.
The objective of the fund would be to assist selected regions to obtain textbooks in a manner which would
contribute towards: (a) overcoming barriers to entry by assuring payments to publishers and by
structuring payments in a manner that addresses working capital requirements; (b) the more competitive
selection of textbooks and the eventual demonopolization of the textbook publishing industry; (c) speeding
up the development and selection of new, more appropriate texts for secondary schools and (d) the
creation of a sustainable system of funding for textbook supply for the secondary education system.
Operation of the Pilot Fund
9.    Under the proposed scheme, regions wishing to purchase textbooks funded by the IBRD loan
would engage in a Sub Loan Agreement (SLA) with the MOF. All loans to regions would be guaranteed
by the oblast under the terms of an SLA (Attachment 1). It is proposed to allow interested regions to



Page 80                                                                         Annex C
borrow from the fund on the basis of SLAs available and ready for execution.
10.    It is anticipated that 70% of the fund would be allocated to depressed or needy Regions. Criteria
for the selection of regions will be included in the Operations Manual. It is expected that all participating
regions would have available: (a) a regional program/plan for the supply of textbooks; (b) a local
infrastructure for textbook supply to include a system of data collection about school needs and a local
distribution/delivery system; (c) a history of direct contracting with publishers in 1995-1996; and (d)
some availability of budgetary funds for textbook purchases in 1996. Detailed selection criteria will also
include the oblast's credit history with the Ministry of Finance.
11.   The purpose of the fund is to encourage the entry of new firms and develop new mechanisms of
book selection, marketing and purchase but not to provide so much finance as to create a dependence on
public finance. If the fund finances 2 textbook runs per year at a cost of $2.50 per book, it would only
finance approximately 4 million books per year and, over 5 years, 20 million books. This would represent
about 1 % of the total requirement estimated by the MGPE.
12.   In order to ensure that budgetary support for textbooks is actually spent on textbooks and to
continue encouraging new publishers, the MOF intends to deposit funds repaid by regions from the US$
10 million component into a designated account and continue funding textbooks from it. In this way, it
will function as a revolving fund. It is expected that MOF will operate this fund for about 4 to 5 years.
Thereafter, the US$ 10 million equivalent fund can be replaced by the funds of commercial banks and/or
donor agencies.
Selection and Procurement of Textbooks
13.   In order not to delay purchasing textbooks during the first two years of the project (while awaiting
the development and updating of textbooks under Component B: School Textbook Reform), participating
Regions would select textbooks from the existing Federal Textbook List approved by the project analysis.
14.   The procurement procedures to be used to obtain the textbooks would follow the Bank's
established procedures and as set forth in the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of
Textbooks dated January 1994 and\or other agreed procedures which are described in the Bank's
Procurement Technical Note (PTN 4.4.1) of the same date (note: please refer to Corrigenda dated March
17, 1995). Although the Bank's Standard Bidding Document is intended for International Competitive
Bidding, the PTN discusses a number of different approaches to textbook supply contracts, some of which
would be expected to be used in this proposed project. The type of procurement would depend on, inter
alia, the size of proposed contract(s) and type of textbooks selected. Bank guidelines would introduce
competition into the selection process - where copyright problems exist the procurement process would
at least require negotiation with publishers to reduce prices and/or require regions to choose between 2
or 3 similar textbooks from the existing Federal List concerning certain specified subjects. The Textbook
Project in Romania provides useful lessons from experience in exactly this kind of selection and
procurement exercise.
Administration of the pilot Fund
15.   The NTF will work with regions to ensure that they follow Bank procurement guidelines and
develop contracts eligible for financing. To collect payments from regions and re-lend funds in the future,
MOF will appoint an agent bank. The agent bank will handle all financial details of the "revolving fund".



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                               Page 81
The NTF will prepare documents and select an agent bank through a competitive bidding basis on behalf
of the MOF. An agreement would be signed with the selected agent bank which would determine the
functions, rights and responsibilities of the parties involved; the level, source and procedures for
remuneration; and the agent bank's reporting obligations to the MOF.
Cost of Pilot Fund for Textbooks
16.   The financing of this proposed US$10 million component would follow the Bank's normal
arrangements with the Bank financing up to 80 % of the cost of the component, with the Government local
cost sharing representing 20% and applicable duties and taxes.
Cost Recovery
17.   The interest rate to be charged to the regions would be established by the MOF at a rate which
would cover the World Bank Loan servicing, the fund's administration costs (bank's services) and, if
necessary, loan securities. It is tentatively estimated that the annual interest rate of such loans would be
10% in hard currency.
18.   The regions would repay the MOF as specified in the Sub Loan Agreement. To the extent
possible, repayment would be timed to coincide with release of budget funds which would be desirable
from the regions' point of view.
Monitoring
19.   To monitor the progress of the project, an annual review of the Fund will be undertaken by
independent advisers, including an expert nominated by the Bank. This review will be prepared by the
beneficiaries themselves on the progress of the project using inter alia the indicators listed in Annex E.



Attachment 1
Terms and Conditions of the Sub-Loans
Part 1: Principal Terns and Conditions of Sub-Loan Agreement
The following principal terms and conditions shall apply for purposes of this Sub-Loan Agreement
entered into pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of the Loan Agreement:
Section A:    Terms
1.    The principal amount of Sub-Loan to a Region shall be denominated and be the equivalent in US
Dollars (determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
of the Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid on account of
goods or services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
2.    The amount of the Sub-Loan would not exceed US$ 2 million representing the cost of the goods to
be financed from the proceeds of the Loan.
3 .    The Region shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Sub-Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate equivalent to ten percent (10%). The amount of the Sub-Loan shall be repaid
by the Region over a term not to exceed eight (8) months, inclusive of a grace period of not more than four
(4) months.
Section B:    Obligation to Carry Out Project Activities
1.    The Region shall declare its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2
to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out, with the Borrower's assistance, the activities
related to the Region as described in Part C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services or other resources required for its part of the
Project.
2.    The Region shall duly perform all its obligations under this Sub-Loan Agreement. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Region shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving this Agreement or any provision thereof.
3.    (a)    The Region shall, at the request of the Bank through the NTF, exchange views with the
Bank with regard to the progress of its respective part of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of this Sub-Loan.
(b)    The Region shall promptly inform the Borrower and the Bank through the NTF of any
condition which interfered or threatens to interfere with the progress of its respective part of the Project, the



accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the Region of its obligations under this
Agreement.
Section C:    Financial Covenants
I.    (a)    The Region shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices and operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of its respective part of the Project.
(b)    The Region shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)   furmish to the Bank, through the NTF, as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditors, or such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Bank, through the NTF, such other information concerning such
records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section D:    Implementation Conditions
The Region shall establish and maintain a liaison person or persons with full authority of the
Region to officially act on their behalf in carrying out all of their obligations under this Agreement; and
Part II: Principal Terms and Conditions of Sub-Loan
1.    No expenditures for goods or services under this Sub-Loan shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless the Sub-Loan shall have been approved by the NTF and reviewed by the Bank.
2.    The selection of the Region of the Sub-Loan shall be in strict accordance with the agreed selection
procedures as outlined in the Operation Manual of the NTF and presented to the Bank for its prior review.
3.    The NTF would have the right to:
(a)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, if the Bank shall so requested,
such goods and services, including works qualifying under the local cost sharing arrangements and included
in its respective part of the project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;



(b)    obtain all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing,
and to the administration, operation and financial condition of the Region and to the benefits to be derived
from its respective part of the project; and
(c)    suspend or terminate the right of the Region to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon
failure by such Region to perform its obligations under this Sub-Loan.



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                 Page 85
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Education Innovation Project
ANNEX D
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION- ORGANIZATION OF THE NTF
1.    The NTF would administer the Project on behalf of the MOF. It would be responsible for
ensuring that the Agreement between the Government and the WB would be carried out in an efficient
and effective manner and would ensure a common and consistent approach regarding the implementation
of the project by all participating entities. The NTF would act on behalf of the MOF in all routine
matters pertaining to the administration of the project. It would, inter alia, act as the secretariat of the
Expert Committees, administer the Special Account, manage and monitor all procurement activities
including the signing of contracts [HEI's may be authorized to sign for Innovative Funds with NTF
monitoring], requests for authorized payments and withdrawals from the Loan proceeds and the [Project
Account] and the consolidation and transmission of all reports and other applicable correspondence to the
WB.
2.    The NTF was originally developed with financing for the Bank's Management and Training
Project (Loan No. 3824-RU) with co-financing from the Swiss Government. It was established under
a Founding Agreement, dated September 7, 1994, as a non-governmental, non-profit organization and
was registered by the Ministry of Justice of the Russian Federation on September 29, 1994 (Registration
No. YuR-8)]. Its activities are governed by the Russian Federation laws; Russia's inter-governmental
agreements; the Founding Agreement and Charter; and the Foundation's internal regulations, which have
been reviewed by WB staff and found satisfactory. The NTF's original mandate under the Management
and Training Project is not expected to be affected by its role in the administration of this project.
Proposed Structure of the NTF
3.    General Assembly: Membership of the General Assembly would be composed of equal
representation from Government and Non-Governmental organization. the General Assembly would elect
members of the Board of Directors and Board of Trustees and review and approve the NTF annual
reports.
4.    Board of Trustees: A Board of Trustees headed by the Minister of Education and Minister of
Economy would be introduced. The Board of Trustees would be elected by the General Assembly for
a period of four years and would consist of an equal number of representatives of Government and of non
governmental organizations. The functions of the Board of Trustees would be to: (a) agree strategy and
priorities of the NTF; (b) oversee allocation of funds; (c) appoint an independent auditor; (d) decide on
admission of new members of the Foundation or exclusion from the Foundation and (e) amend the
constitution and the legal documents of the Foundation as appropriate.
5.    Board of Directors: The Board of Directors would: (a) approve the NTF quarterly plans and
annual budgets; (b) approve the structure of the NTF and Technical Advisory Committees; (c) appoint
NTF Executive Director; (d) approve the appointment of the Deputies Executive Director and authorizes
Executive Director to sign contracts for them; (e) approve internal policies and regulations, including
Operational Manual, staffing tables and terms and conditions of employment; (f) approve criteria and



Page 86                                                                         Annex D
conditions of .selection of the projects; (g) approve projects over US$ 250,000.
6.    Specifically for the Higher Education Innovation Fund, the Board of Directors would: (a) ensure
that the uses of the Innovation Fund are in accordance with the Loan Agreement and Staff Appraisal
Report of the World Bank; (b) ensure that the correct procedures are followed in relation to receipt of
applications, review of applications, awards, and monitoring of projects; (c) supervise professional
decisions taken in relation to size, number and content of awards; (d) appoint members to the four
Expert Committees (in accordance with the procedures agreed with the World Bank and the Inter-
Ministerial Working Group); (e) establish criteria for awards under Window 3 of the Fund; (f) approve
all awards made under the Innovation Fund; (g) ensure appropriate monitoring and annual evaluation
of all schemes being funded is carried out.
7.    NTF Executive Director: The Executive Director would: (a) ensure the implementation of Board
decisions; (b) manage internal activity of the NTF and allocates responsibilities; (c) act on behalf of the
NTF without letter of entrustment; (d) represent the NTF as appropriate both nationally and
internationally; (e) execute contracts with all staff members of the NTF and with eligible entities on
behalf of the NTF; (f) sign agreements and other documents on behalf of the NTF; and (g) and delegate
authority to the Deputy Director, EIP as appropriate.
Organization of NTF
8.    In order to administer the Education Innovation Project, a new division, headed by the NTF
Deputy Director would be introduced. It would consist of 8 professional level staff in addition to the
Deputy Director as follows: for Part A of the project: an Innovation Fund Senior Program Officer and
three (3) Program Officers; and for Parts B and C of the project: a Senior Program Officer and three (3)
Program Officers (see Chart). Also assistance would be provided by a Finance Officer and a
Procurement Officer.
9.    Both the Management Training Project and the Education Innovation Project would have a
common Finance Department, headed by the Financial Director (including Accounting, Disbursement,
Financial analyses), Procurement department (including legal support), Administration Department
(including information support service, PR service and Office Management. In addition to the existing
staff of the NTF it is planned to have two Procurement specialists, one Disbursement Officer and one
accountant.
Expert Committees for Innovation Fund
10.   Membership: The Board of Directors would appoint would appoint four Expert Committees
(ECs) which will have national and international expertise in areas covered by the Innovation Fund,
including Structural Reform within Universities, teaching of economics, politics, sociology and
governance. In accordance with the procedures agreed at negotiations with the World Bank, it would be
the responsibility of the Board of Directors to ensure that members to the ECs of international standing,
including at least one international expert per discipline covered.
11.   Responsibilities of the Expert Committees: (a) the appraisal and review function of applications
to the Innovation Fund for Grant support following the guide lines laid down in Project Documentation
and agreed with the World Bank; (b) ongoing supervision of grantholders and individual projects; (c)
other functions of a professional nature as requested by the Board of Directors.



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                              Page 87
Project Awards Procedures
12.   Applications from HEIs would be received by the corresponding program officer, put in the
necessary format and sent to the Expert Committee. Following the procedures outlined in the Operational
Manual and agreed with the World Bank, the Expert Committee would make its recommendations, which
are processed by the Innovation Fund Senior Program officer and approved by the Innovation Fund
Senior Program officer if below $100,000, between $100,000 and $250,000 by the Deputy Director, EIP.
All applications exceeding $250,000 require approval of the NTF Board of Directors.
Organizational Chart on following page



Lu                   g~~~~~L
.5.~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.
.2EL                                                                                                                         E
co
C 
.2                 -             .1
0~~~
a,               .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .0I
*   (U             C                        *j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
w                                                                           E  ~~~~~~~ ~~C
CL
'U~~~~~~.........................................
0..                                                   ...    ............................................................



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                                     Page 89
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Education Innovation Project
ANNEX E
PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
DEVELOPMRNT             MECHANISM            1INDCATOR              YEAR    YEAR    YEAR   TARGU?r AT
OsJECrTIvE                                    I                     1        3       -5:       PKocr
PART A: HIGHER EDUCATION INNOVATION FUND
1. Increased uuality of    a) Creation of      a) Number of        0                           At least one for
all educational         informal accreditation    accreditation                                each discipline
components in Social    committees in           committees created
Sciences                economics, sociology    & functioning in
& politology with     these disciplines
participation of       with international
international bodies  input
b) Increased           b) Increased        5                          40
participation in       participation in
national &             national &
international networks   international
professional
meetings
2. Increased quantity of  a) New syllabi       a) Number of         .5                         40
provision of Social     developed &             reformed syllabi
Sciences                implemented            implemented &
recognised
b) Increased           b) Number of        0                          25
enrollment in new      places in relevant
relevant courses       programs increased
3. Improved             a) Published            a) Development      0                          20
governance of HEIs      Development Plan of    Plan published
HEIs
b) Creation of         b) Number of units   0                         20
functioning links with   created or
the outside world,    restructured
business               through the
circles,employers etc.   Innovation Fund
Windows
4. Improved efficiency    a) Published audit    a) Published        0                          20
in the use of resources    using a modern       audited reports
accounting system
b) Increased use of IT   b) Increase in    0                          50
in administration &    number of
teaching               computers &  their
productivity in
admin & teaching.
* Numbers are percentages.



Page 90                                                                                             Annex E
1:DEVElJPMENT*: i   FMECHAMXM,V:j0f   M ICATORMS  f:i YW. I If: i YEARIS:   WA I YER:M,   Yi40:  : Y:A5::  :Y6:
PART B: SCHOOL TEXTBOOK REF)oRM
Textbook uualitv    Accelerate       Agreed          Analysis    Pilot
improvement         establishment    strategy and   of issues    standards
of National     implementat-   and           tested.
Education       ion program;    approach-   Frame-
Standards and                   es to        work and
Tests (NEST);                   solution     develop-
ment
strategy of
NEST
approved
by
education
commun-
ity after
wide
discussion
and
participati
on of
internation
al experts;
Restructure     Autonomous    FEC            FEC         restructured    restructur-  restructur-  restruct-
Federal Expert   authoritive    charter      members    FEC             ed FEC       ed FEC      ured
Council (FEC)   body enabled    prepared;    democratic  operative      operative    operative    FEC
to produce     FEC          ally                                                 operat-
independent,   registered    elected;                                            ive
professional    as an       evaluation
evaluations    autonomou   system
s body;     approved;
election    FEC
process to   provided
the FEC     with
started;    necessary
draft       facilities;
evaluation   training
system      system of
developed.  FEC
members
and
adminis-
trative
staff
______________       ~developed. __ _ _  _ _ _  __ _  _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                                  Page 91
|  E oMENT        | MECHANISM       INDICATOh    f YEAt I      YR X         Y" 3          YI AR 4     Y"        Y     6
IORJECI1VE                                       I                                               :..        1 .. ..
Increase quantity   Analysis of     150 new titles   analysis of  first     40 new titles   70 new
through the renewal  Federal List   created for    the FL      competit-   developed      titles
of the Federal List   and grants for   revised     completed;  ive grants                 developed
of textbooks        new book        Federal List    Competit-   awarded;
development                    ion for      40 new
the         titles
develop-    developed
ment of
new titles
announc-
ed;
publishers
selected.
Encourage           Establishment    Database/cata-  Database    100,000    Procurement   network      network     network
efficiency through    of Books in  logue in hard   developed;  copies of   for            piloted in   for 2500    fully
development of      Print (BIP)     copy and on    feasibility   catalogue   information    10-20     users        function-
Textbook            Database        line; network   study      (hard        network       regions.    function-    ing
Information System   /catalogue and    provides BIP    complete;   copy)    competed;                  ing.
textbook        ordering       network      distribut-    database and
information/    system to      designed;   ed;          catalogue
ordering        raion level.    catalogue    software    system
network                        developed.  developed;  expanded.
technical
specificat-
ions
defined.
New system         Delivery of      Educational    organiz-    200 staff    800 staff     1000 staff
training of         training        Administrat-    ational    trained      trained       trained
Educational         through agreed   ors trained in   arrange-
Administrators     training         new systems    ments
modules                        made and
training
curriculum
I~ ~  ~   ~   ~ ________ _______                dueveilcoped  _____     ______        ______       _____        ____
PART C: PILOT TExTBooK PRocuREMENT FUND
Assist regions to   Pilot Textbook    Subsidiary   Purchase    Purchase
purchase textbooks   Procurement    Loan signed    800,000      3.2
Fund                           books        million
books



Page 92                                                                                   Annex F
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Education Innovation Project
ANNEX F
SUPERVISION PLAN
The Project would, on average, require between 35 to 45 staff-weeks of Bank supervision per
fiscal year during implementation. This estimate would include staff time at HQ and field visits as
reflected in the proposed supervision plan below. The estimate also includes staff time of Moscow
Resident Mission.
Approx.                                                  Stafiiig               Requirements
June 1997      Follow-up mission to review status of     Task Manager                  6
(post Loan     Project Effectiveness                     Implementation
Signing)                                                 Specialist
Project Assistant
Sept./Oct.     Project Launch Mission                    Task Manager                 12
1997           Project Launch Workshop                  Implementation Spec
Review of work program                   Project Assistant
Review of contract monitoring system     Textbook Specialist
Higher Educ. Spec
January 1998    Supervision Mission                      Task Manager                  6
(assuming      Review bid evaluations and                Procurement Specialist
Project        recommendations for contract awards       Project Assistant
Effectiveness)   Monitor progress
April 1998     Supervision Mission                       Task Manager                 6
Review bid evaluations and               Procurement Specialist
recommendations for contract awards      Project Assistant
Monitor progress
August 1998    Supervision Mission                       Task Manager                  6
Assess progress                          Implementation
Review procurement                       Specialist
Project Assistant
December       Supervision Mission                       Task Manager                 6
1998           Assess progress                           Project Assistant
Review procurement                       Educ. Specialist
Implementation
Specialist



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                         Page 93
Resource
Approx.                                                 StaMng                 Requirements
Dates          Activity                                 Requirements          (staff weeks)
1999           Supervision Missions, approximately every   Task Manager              20
4 months, timing and content determined by   Project Assistant
status of project implementation         Textbook Specialist
Higher Ed. Specialist
Implementation
Specialist
2000           Two Supervision Missions, (including Mid   Task Manager               4
Term Review below) timing and content    Educ. Specialist
determined by status of project
implementation
Mid 2000       Mid Tern Review Mission                  Task Manager                 12
Develop financial allocations, work program   Implementation Spec
and timetable for remaining project      Project Assistant
activities; Review audit arrangements    Textbook Specialist
Higher Educ. Spec
2001           Two Supervision Missions timing and      Task Manager                 12
content determined by status of project  Educ. Specialist
implementation
2002           Two Supervision Missions timing and      Task Manager                 12
content determined by status of project  Educ. Specialist
implementation
2003           Two Supervision Missions, including one    Task Manager               12
to prepare/review ICR                    Implementation
Specialist



Page 94                                                                                Annex G
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Education Innovation Project
ANNEX G
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
US$ Million
Proiect Components                          Local         Foreign        Total  % of project cost
Part A. HIGHER EDUCATION INNOVATION FUND:
1.     Social Science Reform:
(a)    civil works                   1.57          0.18           1.75
(b)    goods                        5.55           3.70           9.25
(c)    services
(i)    consultants           1.50           7.00           8.50
(ii)   seminars/workshops/
study tours/
fellowships           10.23         5.27           15.50
Sub-total A l(a-c)                   18.85         16.15          35.00          40%
2.     Governance Reform:
(a)    goods                        2.10           1.40           3.50
(b)    services
(i)    consultants           1.44           0.81           2.25
(ii)   seminars/workshops/
study tours/
fellowships           2.81           1.44          4.25
Sub-total A 2(a-b)                  6.35           3.65           10.00          12%
3.     Social Sciences Academic Support:
(a)    civil work-                  0.16           0.02           0.18
(b)    goods                        0.32           0.20           0.52
(c)    services
(i)    consultants           1.04           0.61           1.65
(ii)   seminars/workshops/
study tours/
fellowships           0.78          0.37           1.15
Sub-total A 3(a-c)                  2.30           1.20           3.50           4%
4.     Expert Committees:
(a)    services
(i)    consultants           0.35           0.65           1.00
(ii)   seminars/workshops    0.45           0.05           0.50
Sub-total A 4                       0.80           0.70           1.50           2%
TOTAL PART A                        28.30          21.70          50.00          58%



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                                 Page 95
Part B. SCHOOL TEXTBOOK REFORM:
1.     Textbook Quality Improvement:
(a)     Develop National Standards and Testing
(i)     Services
(a) consultants         0.80            0.07            0.87
(b) seminars/workshops 0.07             0.01            0.08
(c) study tours                         0.05            0.05
Sub-total B l(a)                        0.87            0.13            1.00             1%
(b)    Restructuring Federal Expert Council
(i)     Civil Works             0.01                            0.01
(ii)    Goods                   0.07            0.05            0.12
(iii)    Services
(a) consultants         0.08            0.06            0.14
(b) semninars/workshops 0.08            0.01            0.09
(c) study tours                         0.04            0.04
Sub-total B l(b)                        0.24            0.16            0.40
Sub-total B 1                           1.11            0.29             1.40            1%
2.     Renewal of Federal List:
(a)     Analysis of Federal List
(i)     Services
(a) consultants         0.05            0.02            0.07
(b) seminars/workshops 0.03                             0.03
Sub-total B 2(a)                        0.08            0.02            0.10
(b)     Development of New Textbooks
(i)     Services
(a) consultants         0.18            0.04            0.22
(b) grants              3.40            0.38            3.78
Sub-total- - -- B_2(b)_                 3.58_0_42-4.0
Sub-total B 2(b)                        3.58            0.42            4.00             5%
Sub-total B 2                           3.66            0.44            4.10             5%
3.     Textbook Information System
(a)     Educational Materials Database/Catalog
(i)     Goods                   0.03            0.14            0.17
(ii)    Services
(a) consultants         0.60            0.13            0.73
_----------
Sub-total B 3(a)                        0.63            0.27            0.90             1%
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - -- - -- - -- --_- - --_- -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -



Page 96                                                                                         Annex G
(b)     Textbook Information System
(i)     civil works             0.90            0.10             1.00
(ii)    goods                   1.60            6.40            8.00
(iii)   services
(a) consultants         2.16            1.44            3.60
Sub-total B 3(b)                        4.66            7.94             12.60           15%
Sub-total B 3                           5.29            8.21             13.50           16%
4.     Training:        (a) services
(i) consultants         0.04            0.01            0.05
(ii) seminars/workshops  0.86           0.09            0.95
Sub-total B 4                           0.90            0.10             1.00            1%
TOTAL PART B                            10.96           9.04            20.00            22%
Part C. Pilot Textbook Procurement Fund:    9.00                1.00             10.00
TOTAL PART C                            9.00            1.00             10.00           12%
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION ":                       5.60            1.40            7.00
TOTAL Project Administration            5.60            1.40            7.00 i/          8%
PROJECT COST (less duties & taxes)  53.86               33.14           87.00            100%
Duties and Taxes                        9.60            --              9.60
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      63.46           33.14           96.60
1/     Includes staff salaries/social charges of local administrative staff; office rent; renovation/maintenance; transport;
utilities; telecommunications; and misc. office equipment and consumable supplies. Include also would be the
costs of local and foreign consultants; annual audits; bank charges and fees; and misc. training, all related to
the project.



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                               Page 97
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Education Innovation Project
ANNEX H
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The proposed Education Innovation Project is designed to:
(a)   improve, in selected Higher Education Institutions, the quality and quantity of social
science education and encourage better governance systems and efficiency in the use of
resources; and
(b)   improve the quality and availability of school textbooks as a major contribution to
educational reform.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.    The proposed project would have three components: (a) Higher Education Innovation Fund; (b)
School Textbook Reform; and (c) Pilot Textbook Procurement Fund.
Higher Education Innovation Fund Component ($50 million)
3.    This component would encourage the reform of selected Higher Education Institutes and would
demonstrate how to effect considerable savings to the federal budget without loss of quality by, for
example, amalgamating non-efficient institutions; improving teaching methods; encouraging reduced
teacher-student ratios, strengthening social science education, promoting greater efficiency in use of public
funds at HEI level through increased accountability and transparency.
4.    This component would establish an Innovation Fund which would focus on the development of
social sciences and governance and management reform and would offer partly repayable grants based
on the result of a competitive process between higher education institutions. Conditions of application and
selection criteria would be publicized and awards would be determined in a transparent manner.
5.    The Innovation Fund would be a non-profit making, grant dispersing body in which the main
stakeholder is the higher education sector of Russia which is fully represented at all levels of management
of the IF. Other major stakeholders (MGPE, Ministry of Economy and Ministry of Finance) are
represented in the governance of the IF. Grants from the Innovation Fund are to be used in a manner
consistent with the principles outlined in the Loan Agreement and awarded in accordance with agreed
criteria.
School Textbook Reform Component (US$20 million)
6.    This component would be a modest step in addressing the complexities of supply and demand in
the textbook market in Russia. It would improve the quality and supply of textbooks through (a) the
provision of training and equipment for both the MOE and regional educational administrations to



Page 98                                                                       Annex H
strengthen educational standards and create new textbook titles; and (b) the establishment of electronic
information and book ordering systems which would provide equity of access to timely information on
new and improved textbooks throughout the RF for schools, parents and students.
Pilot Textbook Procurement Fund Component (US$10.0 million)
7.    The objective of the fund would be to assist selected regions to obtain textbooks tin a manner
which would contribute towards: (a) overcoming barriers to entry by assuring payments to publishers and
by structuring payments in a manner that addresses working capital requirements; (b) the more
competitive selection of textbooks and the eventual demonopolization of the textbook publishing industry;
(c) speeding up the development and selection of new, more appropriate texts for secondary schools; and
(d) the creation of a sustainable system of funding for textbook supply for the secondary education
system.
8.    School textbooks and learning materials would be procured through the Pilot Textbook
Procurement Fund. The MOF would on-lend the funds to participating regions with repayment to the
MOF through an agent bank. This would establish a revolving fund for future on-lending to regions by
the MOF.
C. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
9.    The NTF would administer the Project on behalf of the MOF. It would be responsible for
ensuring that the Agreement between the Government and the WB would be carried out in an efficient
and effective manner and would ensure a common and consistent approach regarding the implementation
of the project by all participating entities. The NTF would act on behalf of the MOF in all routine
matters pertaining to the administration of the project. It would, inter alia, act as the secretariat of the
various Committees, administer the Special Account, manage and monitor all procurement activities
including the signing of contracts (HEI's may be authorized to sign for Innovative Funds with NTF
assistance and oversight), requests for authorized payments and withdrawals from the Loan proceeds and
for the consolidation and transmission of all reports and other applicable correspondence to the WB.
10.   The NTF would be responsible for the developing and maintaining Volume III to the existing
NTF Operational Manual pertaining to the proposed project, containing eligibility criteria and appraisal,
approval and supervision rules and procedures for the grants and reimbursable programs, as well as other
administrative rules to be followed by the NTF in the carrying out of the project.
D. IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Gantt Chart (See following 6 pages)
E. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
11.   To monitor the progress of the project, an annual review will be undertaken by independent
advisers, including an expert nominated by the Bank. This review will be based on a standardized report
to be prepared by the beneficiaries themselves on the progress of the project using inter alia the indicators
listed in Annex E.
F. PROCUREMENT PLAN
See pages 105-109.



Russia: Education Innovation Project
1997           1998           1999            2000           2001           2002            2003
ID   Task Name                            Start    Finish  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr
1   Key Processing Tasks                 3/13/97   1/21/98
2        Negotiations                     3/13/97   3/1897 
3        Draft General Procurement Notice    3/25/97   3/25/97  *  3/25
4        Sign PPF                          4/1/97    411/97
5        Publish General Procure. Notice  4/15/97   4/15/97          4/15
6        Board Consideration               5/1/97    5/1/97       *51
7        Loan Signature                  6/10/97   6/10/97             6/10
8        First Supervision Mission       6/20/97    7/9/97
9        Project Effectiveness             1/1/98    1/1/98
10       Full Project Launch              1/15/98   1/21/98                   l
11                        _                                 '
12   Higher Education Component           1/21/97  11/13/01       .
13       Draft Application Document       1/21/97   2/25/97
14       Finalize Application Document    3/10/97   3/14/97
15       Establish Expert Committees       4/1/97   4/30/97
16       Appoint HE staff to NTF           4/1/97   4/30/97
17       NTF Admin. Arrangements in place    4/1/97   4/30/97
18       Round I (or Pre-Qualification)    511/97   9/22/00
19           Announce Round 1              5/1/97    5/7/97    .
20           Circulate Application Docume  5/1/97    5/7/97
21            Hold Information Workshops   5/8/97    8/5/97
22            HEIs prepare proposals       1/1/98    4/1/98
Task                                  Summary                                Rolled Up Progress
Date: 3/26/97                        Progress                               Rolled Up Task          M
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone X
Page 1 of 6



Russia: Education Innovation Project
1997          199S           1999           2000           2001     |     2002           2003
ID   Task Name                           Start    Finish  trtr t r t r tt       tr tr  tr tr       tr  tr tr  tr  tr  tr tr rt   tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr tr  tr  tr  tr
23           Closing date                 4/1/98    4/1/98                        4/1
24           Evaluation                   4/2/98   4/29/98
25           Expert comm. recommends     4/30/98    5/6/98      .
26           NTF Board to award grants    5/7/98    6/8/98
27           NTF Contracts Administration    6/9/98   8/31/98
28           Implementation               9/1/98   9/22/00
29       Round 2                          4/2/98   2/20/01    .  *                                                      iy
30           Announce Round 2             4/2/98    4/8/98      .
31           Circulate Application Docume  4/9/98   4/15/98
32           Hold Information Workshops    4/16/98   5/27/98
33           HEIs prepare proposals      5/28/98   8/28/98
34           Closing date                8/28/98   8/28/98                              8/28
35           Evaluation                  8/31/98   9/25/98
36           Expert comm. recommends     9/28/98   10/2/98    .
37           NTF Board to award grants   10/5/98   11/4/98
38           NTF Contracts Administration    11/5/98   1/27/99
39           Implementation              1/28/99   2/20/01
40       Round 3                         8/13/98    7/3/01                                I _
41           Announce Round 3            8/13/98   8/19/98
42           Circulate Application Docume    8/20/98   826/98   .
43           Hold Information Workshops    8/27/98   10/7/98
44           HEls prepare proposals      10/8/98    1/8/99
Task                                 Summary                              Rolled Up Progress
Date: 3/26/97                       Progress                             Rolled Up Task
Milestone                            Rolled Up Milestone
Page 2 of 6



Russia: Education Innovation Project
1997          1998           1999           2000           2001           2002           2003
ID   Task Name                           Start    Finish  tr  tr tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr I tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr
46           Closing date                 1/8/99    1/8/99
46           Evaluation                  1/11/99    2/5/99
47           Expert comm. recommends      2/8/99   2/12/99 
48           NTF Board to award grants   2/15/99   3/17/99
49           NTF Contracts Administration   3/18/99    6/9/99
50           Implementation              6/10/99    7/3/01                                                     -
51       Round 4                        12/24/98  11/13/01
52           Announce Round 4           12/24/98  12/30/98
53           Circulate Application Docume   12/31/98    1/6/99
54           Hold Information Workshops   1/7/99   2/17/99
55           HEls prepare proposals      2/18/99   5/21/99
56           Closing date                5/21/99   5/21/99                                        5/21
57           Evaluation                  5/24/99   6/18/99
58           Expert comm. recommends     6/21/99   6/25/99
59           NTF Board to award grants   6/28/99   7/28/99
60           NTF Contracts Administration   7/29/99  10/20/99
61           Implementation             10/21/99  11/13/01                                                           -
62
63   School Textbook Reform Componen    12/4/96  12/31/03
64       1. Textbook Quality Improveme    12/4/96   1/19/99
65           a. Nat'l Standards & tests   5/1/97   1/19/99
66               Analysis of current situati   5/1/97    9/2/97
Task                                 Summary                              Rolled Up Progress
Date: 3/26/97                       Progress                             Rolled Up Task
Milestone        *                   Rolled Up Milestone
Page 3 of 6



Russia: Education Innovation Project
1997          1998           1999           2000           20120II02                     200
ID   Task Name                          Start    Finish  tr  tr  tr  tr I tr   tr   tr   tr   tr   tr   tr   tr   tr   tr 0 trt trt r20tr0t3trt
67               Draft strategy           9/3/97   5/12/98
68               Pilot                   5/13/98   1/19/99
69
70           b. Federal Expert Council   12/4/96  12/28/98      _                         t
71               Draft org. changes and p   12/4/96   8/11/97
72               Eval. methods and proc.   12/4196  12/15/97
73               Official adaptation     8/12/97   4/20/98
74               Change work environmen   4/21/98  12/28/98
75               Training                4/21/98  12/28/98
76
77       2. Renewal of the Federal List   9/1/97    4/8/02                        -
78           a. Analysis of Federal List  9/1/97  10/23/98            _
79               develop LOI for consuRta  9/1/97  10/31/97
80               release LOI             11/3/97    1/2/98
81               evaluate consultant propo    1/5/98   2/13/98
82               consuftants carryout wor   2/18/98  10/23/98
83
84           b. Competitions for Dev. of    9/1/97    4/8102    .                                                                         _
85               draft bidding documentati   9/1/97    1/2/98
86               Expert Committee (EC) a   4/21/98   8/24/98
87               public announcement of   1/5/98   2/13/98     3.
88               evaluate publishers     2/16/98   3/27/98
Task                                 Summary                  _            Rolled Up Progress
Date: 3/26/97                       Progress                             Rolled Up Task
Milestone                            Rolled Up Milestone K
Page 4 of 6



Russia: Education Innovation Project
1997          1998           1999     ]     2000           2012002                       2003
ID   Task Name                           Start    Finish  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr
89               round 1 competition for a   3/30/98   6/19/98
90               round 2 competition for a   6/22/98   2/26/99
91               round 3 competition for a    3/1/99   5/21/99
92               EC meets/evaluates sub    5/24/99    7/2/99
93               Production of selected   7/5/99    4/8/02
94                   round 1              7/5/99  11/14/00
96                   round2              3/11/00   7/26/01
96                   round 3            11/14/00    418/02
97
98       3. Textbook Infoffnation System  7/11/97  12/31/03                I
99           a. Txtbks in print (database/    7/11/97   7/26/00            I
100              Develop LOI for feasibilit    7/1/97   9/22/97
101              Carry out feasibility study   9/23/97    6/1/98
102              Tender process for datab    6/2/98  11/16/98   .
103              Carry out database devel  11117/98   7/26/99
104              Organization of central sy  11/17/98   7/26/99
106              Design catalog          7/27/99  11/29/99
106              Hard copy catalog produ   11/30/99   7/26/00
107
108          b. Comnp. Txtbk ordering sy    7/1/97  12/31/03
109              Develop LOI for feasibilit    7/1/97   9/22/97
110              Carry out feasibility study   9/23/97   2/15/99
Task                                 Summary                               Rolled Up Progress
Date: 3/26/97                       Progress                             Rolled Up Task
Milestone                            Rolled Up Milestone 0
Page 5 of 6



Russia: Education Innovation Project
IL  1997          199        _ 1999             2000           20011 2002                    2003
ID   Task Name                           Start    Finish  tr  tr tr  tr  tr  trLtr tr  tr [ tr I tr I tr  tr tr tr  tr  tr  trtr   tr|tr    tr  tr itr  tr | tr  tr |tr
111              Tender process for netw    2/16/99    8/2/99
112               Design network          8/3/99   3/29/00
113              Pilot operation (10-20 obl   12/7/99   12/6/00
114              ICB procurement for equi   12/7/00   8/15/01
115              Full operation          8/16/01  12/31/03
116
117      4. Training                     3/30100  12/31/03
118          Develop program modules     3/30/00   12/6/00
119          Program phased according to   8/16/01  12/31/03
120
121  Textbook Procurernent Fund Compo     1/1/98  12/31/03
122      Selection of Participating Oblasts  1/1/98    4/1/98
123      Sign Sub loan agreements         4/V98    7/1/98
124      Procure Textbooks                7/2/98  12/30/98
125      Repay Minfin                   12/31/98   4/21/99
126      Min Fin Revotving Fund begins   4/22/99   7/21/99
127      Revolving Fund continues thru proj   7/22/99  12/31/03
128      Textbooks procured on revotving ba   7/22/99  12/31/03
Task                                 Summary                               Rolled Up Progress
Date: 3/26/97                       Progress                             Rolled Up Task
Milestone                            Rolled Up Milestone
Page 6 of 6



Russia: Education Innovation Proiect                                                Procurement Plan                                                                                Page 105
Major Activities Schedule
Estimated                          I                               Start
Procurement          No. of       Costs (US$                  Issue     Bid/Prop.  Contract   Date/Begin
Category of Procurement             Method           Contracts       millions)        NBF    Docs.    Recieved   Signature             Deliver
I    Civi Works
Part A - Higher Education Innovation Fund
Renovation of existing education  Proc. for Small
1 facilities                        Works                     13            0.60                       Jun-98      Aug-98        Sep-98          Oct-98
Renovation of existing education  Proc. for Small
2 facilities                        Works                     13             0.60                      Jun-98      Aug-98         Sep-98         Oct-98
Renovation of existing education  Proc. for Small
3 facilities                        Works                     12            0.55                      Nov-98        Jan-99        Jan-99         Jan-9
Renovation of existing education  Proc. for Small
4 facilities                        Works                     12            0.55                      Mar-99       May-99        May-99         May-9
Parr B - School Texbook Reform
Installation of Computerized Textbook
I Ordering system                         NCB                 10                            1.23      Apr-0l        Jun-01        Jul-01        Aug-01
11 Geood
Part A - Higher Education Innovation Fund
1 Computer Equipment for HEIs              ICB                5             3.00                       Jun-98      Aug-98        Sep-98          Oct-98
Teaching and Leamning Materials for
2 HEIs                                     ICB                4             2.00                       Jun-98      Aug-98         Sep-98         Oct-98
Teaching and Learning Materials for
3 HEIs                                     ICB                4             2.00                      Nov-98        Jan-99       Jan-99          Jan-99
Teaching and Learning Materials for
4 HEIs                                     ICB                4             2.00                      Mar-99       May-99        May-99         May-99
Office Furniture, Teaching/ Learning
5 Materials for HEls                       NCB                4             0.84                       Jun-98      Aug-98        Sep-98          Oct-98
Office Furniture, Teaching/ Learning
6 Materials for HEIs                       NCB                4             0.84                      Nov-98        Jan-99       Feb-99         Mar-9
Part B - School Tetbook Reform
Office Equipment for Federal Expert
I Council                                  NS                 8             0.15                       Jan-99      Mar-991       Apr-99         May-99
Small equipment for installation of
2 computer network                          IS                10          I 1.00                       Sep-98       Oct-98       Nov-98         Dec-98



Russia: Education Innovation Proiect                                                Procurement Plan                                                                               Page 106
_ _ _ __ _I _ _   Major Activities Schedule
Estimated                                                          Start
Procurement          No. of        Costs (US$                 Issue     Bid/Prop.  Contract   Date/Begin
Category of Procurement             Method           Contracts       millions)        NBF    Docs.    Recieved   Signature             Deliver
Computer Equipment to establish
Computerized Textbook Ordering
3 system                                   ICB                1              8.00                      Dec-00      Mar-O1        May-01           Jul-01
4 Teaching and Learning Materials          NCB                7              1.47                      Jan-98       Mar-98       Apr-98         May-98
Part C - Textbook Procuremnent Fund
I Textbooks                              various             n/a                           5.66          to correspond with procurement activities
2 Textbooks                                ICB                1             0.60                       Jan-99      Mar-99        May-99          Jun-99
3 Textbooks                                ICB                1              1.20                      Jan-00      Mar-00        May-00           Jul-00
4 Textbooks                                ICB                 1             1.20                      Jan-01       Feb-0 1      Mar-O1          Apr-O 1
5 Textbooks                                LIB                1              0.60                      Jun-98      Aug-98         Sep-98         Oct-98
6 Textbooks                                LIB                1              0.60                      Jun-99      Aug-99         Sep-99         Oct-9
7 Textbooks                                LIB                1              1.20                      Jun-00        Jul-00      Aug-00          Sep-00
8 Textbooks                                LIB                 1             0.60                      Jun-01        Jul-01      Aug-01          Sep-01
9 Textbooks                                DC                 2             0.60           _          Mar-98        Apr-98       May-98          Jun-98
10 Textbooks                                DC                 3              1.80                     Mar-99       Mar-99        Mar-99         Mar-9
11 Textbooks                                DC                 3              1.80                     Mar-00       Mar-00        Mar-00         Mar-00
12 Textbooks                                DC                 3              1.50                     Mar-O1       Mar-O1        Mar-O1         Mar-O1
13 Textbooks                                DC                 1             0.30                      Mar-02       Mar-02        Mar-02         Mar-02
_   Services
Part A - Higher Education Innovation Fund
Consultant
1 Expert Committees                     Individuals           9             0.26                       Jan-97       Feb-97       Mar-97         Apr-97
2 Expert Committees                     Individuals           9             0.26                       Jan-98       Feb-98       Mar-98          Apr-98
3 Expert Committees                     Individuals           9             0.26                       Jan-99       Feb-99       Mar-99          Apr-99
4 Expert Commitees                      Individuals           9             0.26                       Jan-00       Feb-00       Mar-00          Apr-00
5 Expert Committees                     Individuals           9             0.26                       Jan-01       Feb-01       Mar-O          Apr-O1
6 Expert Committees                     Individuals           9             0.26                       Jan-02       Feb-02       Mar-02          Apr-02
7 Social Science Reform - Consultants       SL                12            2.13                       Jun-98       Jul-98       Aug-98          Sep-98
8 Social Science Reform - Consultants       SL                12            2.13                      Nov-98        Dec-98        Jan-99         Feb-99
9 Social Science Reform - Consultants       SL                12            2.13                      Mar-99        Apr-99       May-99          Jun-99



Russia: Education Innovation Project                                                Procurement Plan                                                                                Page 107
Major Activities Schedule
Estimated                                                          Start
Procurement          No. of        Costs (US$                 Issue     Bid/Prop.  Contract   Date/Begin
Category of Procurement             Method           Contracts       millions)        NBF    Docs.    Recieved   Signature             Deliver
10 Social Science Reform - Consultants      SL                 12            2.13                       Jul-99      Aug-99         Sep-99         Oct-9
11 Governance Reform - Consultants          SL                 5             0.56                       Jun-98       Jul-98       Aug-98          Sep-98
12 Governance Reform - Consultants          SL                 5             0.56                      Nov-98       Dec-98         Jan-99         Feb-99
13 Governance Reform - Consultants          SL                 5             0.56                      Mar-99       Apr-99        May-99          Jun-99
14 Governance Reform - Consultants          SL                 5             0.56
15 SS Academic Support - Consultants     Individuals           11            0.55                      Nov-98       Dec-98        Jan-99          Feb-99
16 SS Academic Support - Consultants     Individuals           11            0.55                      Mar-99       Apr-99        May-99          Jun-9
17 SS Academic Support - Consultants     Individuals           11            0.55                       Jul-99      Aug-99         Sep-99         Oct-99
Study Tours/Seminars                                                                      7.74
Social Science Reform - Study
1 Tours/Seminars                       Agreed Proc.          n/a            2.09                                                                 Sep-98
Social Science Reform - Study
2 Tours/Seminars                       Agreed Proc.          n/a            2.09                                                                 Feb-99
Social Science Reform - Study
3 Tours/Seminars                       Agreed Proc.          n/a            2.09                                                                 Jun-99
Social Science Reform - Study
4 Tours/Seminars                       Agreed Proc.          n/a            2.09                                                                 Oct-99
Governance Reform - Study
6 Tours/Seminars                       Agreed proc.          n/a             1.04                                                                Sep-98
Governance Reform - Study
7 Tours/Seminars                       Agreed proc.          n/a             1.04                                                               Feb-99
Governance Reform - Study
8 Tours/Seminars                       Agreed proc.          n/a            1.04                                                                Jun-99
Governance Reform - Study
9 Tours/Seminars                       Agreed proc.          n/a             1.03                                                               Oct-99
SS Academic Support - Study
10 Tours/Seminars                       Agreed Proc.          n/a            0.38                                                                Feb-99



Russia: Education Innovation Proiect                                                Procurement Plan                                                                                Page 108
lI  [                              l             l         l__           Major Activities Schedule
Estimated                                                          Start
Procurement          No. of        Costs (US$                 Issue    Bid/Prop.  Contract   Date/Begin
Category of Procurement             Method           Contracts       millions)        NBF    Docs.    Recieved   Signature             Deliver
SS Academic Support - Study
I Tours/Seminars                        Agreed Proc.          n/a            0.38                                                                 Jun-99
SS Academic Support - Study
12 Tours/Seminars                       Agreed Proc.          n/a            0.38                                                                 Oct-99
I
Part B - School Textbook Reform
Development of Nat'l Standards and
I Testing                               Individuals          23             0.87                      Dec-97        Jan-98       Feb-98         Mar-98
Development of Nat'l Standards and
2 Testing - Seminars                   Agreed Proc.           3              0.08                                                       early 1998
Development of Nat' I Standards and
3 Testing - Study Tours                Agreed Proc.           2             0.05                                                        early 1998
Improvement of the functioning of
4 Federal Expert Council                Individuals           10             0.14                     Aug-97        Sep-97        Oct-97        Nov-97
5 Seminars                             Agreed Proc.           2              0.09                                                                Jan-9
6 Study Tours                          Agreed Proc.           1              0.04                                                                Jan-98
7 Analysis of Federal List              Individuals           27             0.07                     Nov-97        Jan-97       Feb-97         Mar-97
Analysis of Federal List -
8 Dessemination Workshop               Agreed Proc.           1             0.03                                                        mid 1998
9 Development of New Textbooks          Individuals           75            0.22                       Feb-98      Mar-98        Apr-98         May-98
Development of Textbooks in Print
10 (database/catalog)                       SL                 4             0.73                       Jun-98      Aug-98        Sep-98         Dec-98
Development of Computerized
11 Textbook Ordering system                 SL                 5             3.60                      Feb-99       Apr-99        Jun-99         Aug-99
12 Training                              Individuals           5             0.05                      Dec-99        Jan-00       Feb-00         Mar-00
13 Training Workshops                   Agreed proc.           10            0.95                                                                 Sep-01
IV    Grants
Part B - School Textbook Reform
Grants to Authors and Publishers for
1 Development of New Textbooks         Agreed Proc.          54             1.26                      Sep-98       Oct-98       Nov-98          Dec-98
Grants to Authors and Publishers for
2 Development of New Textbooks         Agreed Proc.           54             1.26                     Nov-98       Dec-98        Jan-99          Feb-99



Russia: Education Innovation Project                                              Procurement Plan                                                                            Page 109
_II                                                                                             l f_ I       Major Activities Schedule
Estimated                                                         Start
Procurement          No. of      Costs (US$                 Issue    Bid/Prop.  Contract   Date/Begin
Category of Procurement            Method          Contracts       millions)       NBF    Docs.    Recieved   Signature            Deliver
Grants to Authors and Publishers for
3 Development of New Textbooks        Agreed Proc.          54            1.26                     Aug-99       Sep-99        Oct-99        Nov-99
V    Project Administration              Agreed Proc.      Agreed Proc.       6.80           0.70
Summary                               l                                 [            ]____
Civil Works                                                             2.30            1.  _.
Goods                                                                   33.30          5.66                          _
______________________                     IC8  __________I B        20.00
__________________            ~NCB                   - 3  .15
Other                           10.15
LIB                      3.00
_________________                   ~~~~~is                 1.00                  _
___________                  ~~~~~NS                  0.15     _ _ _ _
DC                       6.00                 =     =.
Services                                Consultant                      19.19                   .                     _
Study Tours,
Seminars                      14.90          7.7
Grants                              Agreed Proc.                        3.78
Project Aministration               Agreed Proc.                        6.80           0.71
Project Preparation Advance      Bank Guidelines                        1.00
Total Project                                96.60                           81.27         15.33
Lon Financing                                71.00
Note: Agreed Proc. means procedures agreed with the World Bank     ]            l



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                              Page 110
Russian Federation
Education Innovation Project
ANNEX I
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Cumnmulative
Bank Fiscal Year          Disbursement by           Disbursement by end
and Quarter                 Quarter                    of Quarter
Year 1 - FY1998
3rd Quarter                      1.50                        1.50
4th Quarter                      0.00                        1.50
Year 2 - FY1999
1st Quarter                      0.10                        1.60
2nd Quarter                      0.23                        1.83
3rd Quarter                      0.90                        2.73
4th Quarter                      1.20                        3.93
Year 3 - FY2000
1st Quarter                      1.20                        5.13
2nd Quarter                      1.31                        6.44
3rd Quarter                      2.00                        8.44
4th Quarter                      3.50                        11.94
Year 4 - FY2001
1st Quarter                      5.00                       16.94
2nd Quarter                      5.00                       21.94
3rd Quarter                      5.00                       26.94
4th Quarter                      5.00                       31.94
Year 5 - 2002
1st Quarter                      5.00                       36.94
2nd Quarter                      5.35                       42.29
3rd Quarter                      5.00                       47.29
4th Quarter                      4.50                       51.79
Year 6 - FY2003
1st Quarter                      3.07                       54.86
2nd Quarter                      3.00                       57.86
3rd Quarter                      3.00                       60.86
4th Quarter                      3.00                       63.86
Year 7 - FY2004
lst Quarter                      3.15                       67.01
2nd Quarter                      3.99                       71.00



Russian Federation: Education Innovation Project                                Page 111
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Education Innovation Project
ANNEX J
SELECTED DocUMENTs AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Higher Education
a.    A Proposal for an Innovation Fund for Higher Education, prepared by Working Group,
Sept. 1995 (revised Dec. 1995);
b.    Educational Inputs and Processes In Higher Education with Special Reference to the
Social Sciences in Russia, prepared by Sean Tate, March 1996;
c.    Higher Economics Education in Russia, Proposed Criteria to be used by an Innovation
Fund in the Evaluation of Project Proposals, prepared by David Davies, March 1996;
d.    Legal, Governance, and Management Aspects of Higher Education in Russia, with a
reference to a Proposed Innovation Fund, prepared by Dr. Peter Green, Birks Sinclair,
Ltd., March 1996.
e.    Costs and Financing of Higher Education in the Russian Federation, prepared by Dr. Ivy
Papps, Birks Sinclair Ltd, March 1996;
f.    Case studies of six Higher Education Institutions (March 1996):
i.    Nizhny Novgorod State Linguistic University
ii.    St. Petersburg University of Economics and Finance
iii.   Samara State Technical University
iv.    Rostov State University
v.    Novsibirsk State University
vi.    Moscow Institute for Development of Entrepreneurship;
g.    A Proposal for a Pilot Project, "Transformation of Higher Education in the Field of
Social Sciences", within the Framework of the Education Loan of the World Bank to the
Government of the Russian Federation, prepared by V. Istratov, A. Poletayev, E.
Soboleva, April 1996;
h.    Report on Bilateral Assistance, prepared by Yakovlev, May 1996.
2.    Provision of Textbooks/Textbook Financing Reform
a.    Textbook Reform in Russia, An Agenda, prepared by, Andrei Markov, Clive Sinclair,
Frances Pinter, May 1995;



Page 112                                                                        Annex J
b.    The Russian Textbook Reform Project, Notes and Comments, prepared by Julian Rea,
Aug. 1995;
c.    Reform of Textbook Publishing in Russia, Mechanism of Financing, prepared by M.
Agranovitch, Sept. 1995;
d.    The Evaluation and Approval of Educational Books and Materials in the Russian
Federation, prepared by Julian Rea, March 1996;
e.    Textbook Reform in Russia, prepared by Dennis Chisman, May 1996, based on the
following studies carried out by Russian Experts:
i.    Case studies in eight regions;
ii.   Information & Ordering System study;
iii.   Textbooks-in-print study;
iv.    Recommendations on Expert Council of the MGPE;
v.    Analysis of the Federal Set of Textbooks;
vi.   Proposals for the Development of New Manuscripts, Organizational and
Financial Procedures;
vii.   Bidding procedures for Publishing Houses;
viii.   Mechanism of Financing the Development of Federal Education Standards;
ix.    Analysis of Finance for Publishing the Federal Set of Textbooks;
3.    Educational Testing:  A Proposal for a Pilot Project, prepared by the Working Group a', Sept.
1995 (revised Feb. 1996);
4.    Education Statistics:  A Proposal for a Sub-Project, prepared by the Working Group, Sept.
1995 (revised Feb. 1996);
5.    Other:        1992 Law on Education
1996 Law on Higher Education
Each "Working Group" is comprised of Russian experts and Sector officials.



IBRD 27188R
The bopndaruos talono  denom,nayaons                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V5 UNITED STATES OR a)CE S
any n other infor,nOt,on shoa,n on                                                                                        R  US S IAN             F.. E                                                                                                               . A1   C      > 7 
thi5 nap do -ot-oply, on tIte partR                                                                                                SS A             FEDERATION
thI,. WgOi-rMnGro0up any adgnent                                                                                  REPUBLICS  KRAIS  OBLASTS  OKRUGS                                                                                          u                    - 
-n th - l... stt   - Foytertoy andI.U R..,,- . '-
any andnrsenont or oaeprance of                                                                                                       t/{o 
_>ch bou-d=rls f,                                                                                                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL C                                                                     IIIJ                                           Bering
RIVERS                                                                                                                                   Sao
.. ECONOMIC REGION BOUNDARIES ,
U--TED                  ______  OBLAST, KRAI, OR REPUBUC BOUNDARIES
KINGDOM                                                                                                                            - ,      AUTONOMOUS OBLAST, OKRUG, OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
,,nlding  Pblk aAdyga   Alba, Katod      otC a   4dSaa                                                                                   S
NORWAY                     _sO
-:~~~ .--                                                                                                                                 -                                                r-)n-At<<),o  ,)A\
GERMANY                                                   -          ,t        . 5                                 ,~                                                                                 -0, d
TAETHERLANDS ~   ~          ~         INAN                                                                                      n            -
G    OE  ANDANY\ATVIASI
F t N  At A NO;\9 \2<9H' X/\\( p 1,
ROANIAEr        *~ UKRAINE         A                          j U]K IA\0                       20     *o       o 58o KLOIET A           ~^'                     N FG E                               I I A'~                     /                                     /KE
78~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
I NORTH   11 NORTHVv ST   111 CENTRAL          IV CENTRALSV NORTH CTONIAUS                                Vl VOLGA                Vll VOLOO VYAT rA           Vlil URAE              IX  ivESTERN S6eRIA        X. EASTeRN SlSeRIA         Xl. FAR eASa
1. Arkhengel   i. Novgorod   12. 3ryATVk   22. TIAc      CHERNOZYOM              30. Chechen                     40. Astrokhon           48. Chuvosh                53. BoshSorhstan        61. Altoi                  70. Buryof                 B0. Amur
IC, Nenetz   8 P^kot   13.1onovo   23.Vlodimir   5.Belgorod    31.Doghston                     41.Kolmykio-             9.Kirov                   54.Chelyaonsk              62.GornyAitoi            1  Chd:                   al.Komc apan
'N  ~ hK '8l 2-                                                                36.                                                      764
UKQ    tORtAINE                                   2                                                                                                      ` E
2 Naneo  8. slsos13. Inanao    2.Voinr                              2.Bloo                     31. Daghston                    46. Kolnoryli.          49   io                   56. ChelyioIsk              62. Gorny Aloni          77. Chita                 87. Kriooncat
3. KaoIo   .Leningrad                 4. Kmolog     4 Yrson               6 Krl                     32. Ingash                         Knoon   anch        50MnyEl55   arao63 et.rn                                                        72. ATuv    ara           82. Karyak
68)Kooni  IT. St.Petorsharg C;t1  IS. Kostroora  27. LIpOREL  33. Kobardino-Ealkar  42. Peoaa  SI. Mordan  56. Orenbang  64. Nonosibir~k  73. Irkotek           83. KltobarIo99
5.Mannnh                        6.Moato28   oeha                                              3.Kr.odr                        3.Sooa                   2.Nolol Nnord              7.Brm65   orls74   sttdnRoyM                                                    84  0~5AA
34                      56                                                                                                                                  70~~~~~~~~~~~~~9.Kroaoohrsss7.Ton8.Sch   Yht
AlKlntgrd        2.So
63"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EEER19









IMAGING
Report No.:        16267   RU
Type:     SAR



