            Document of
          The World Bank




                                      Report No: 31934

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
   (SCL-41830 TF-29679 PPFB-P3160)

               ON A

               LOAN

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$71 MILLION

              TO THE

       RUSSIAN FEDERATION

              FOR AN

  EDUCATION INNOVATION PROJECT




            June 13, 2005

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective May 6, 2005)

                             Currency Unit = Russian Ruble
                                  1.00 RUR = US$ 0.036
                                     US$ 1 = RUR 27.8

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1     December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
EIP    Education Innovation Project
FEC    Federal Expert Council
HEF    Higher Education Fund
HEI    Higher Education Institution
MoE    Ministry of Education
MOES   Ministry of Education and Science
PCD    Project Concept Document
PPF    Project Preparation Facility
QER    Quality at Entry Review
RDC    Regional Data Centers
SES    Social and Economic Subjects
TIS    Textbook Information System

                            Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                         Country Director      Kristalina Georgieva
                  Sector Director/Manager      Charles Griffin/Maureen McLaughlin
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Isak Froumin

                                 RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                          EDUCATION INNOVATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              6
6. Sustainability                                                                  7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 9
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              28
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            38
Annex 10. Comments from the Borrower                                             40

Project ID: P008825                                                  Project Name: EDUC INNOV
Team Leader: Isak Froumin                                            TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: June 13, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: EDUC INNOV                                               L/C/TF Number: SCL-41830; TF-29679;
                                                                                                     PPFB-P3160
   Country/Department: RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                 Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Tertiary education (46%); Secondary education (34%); Central
                            government administration (20%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Administrative and civil service reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/31/1995                                     Effective: 01/07/1998                04/20/1998
     Appraisal: 02/27/1997                                         MTR: 02/10/2002                  02/10/2002
      Approval: 06/05/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT. OF RUSSIA/NATIONAL TRAINING FOUNDATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Kristalina I. Georgieva                        Yukon Huang
Sector Director:                Charles C. Griffin                             Robert B. Liebenthal
Team Leader at ICR:             Isak Froumin
ICR Primary Author:             Eluned Roberts-Schweitzer


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
a) improve, in selected Higher Education Institutions, the quality and quantity of social science education
and encourage better governance systems and efficiency in the use of resources; and b) improve the quality
and availability of school textbooks as a major contribution to educational reform

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not been revised.

3.3 Original Components:
Part A - Higher Education Innovation Fund Component ($55.25 million total)

The objective of this component was to encourage the reform of selected Higher Education Institutions
(HEIs) and to demonstrate how to effect savings to the federal budget without loss of quality by, for
example, amalgamating non-efficient institutions; improving teaching methods; encouraging reduced
teacher-student ratios; strengthening social science education, and promoting greater efficiency in use of
public funds at HEI level through increased accountability and transparency.

Part B - School Textbook Reform Component ($22.20 million total)

The objective of this component was to improve the quality and supply of textbooks through (a) the
strengthening educational standards and creating new textbook titles; and (b) the establishment of electronic
information and book ordering systems which would provide equity of access to timely information on new
and improved textbooks throughout the Russian Federation (RF) for schools, parents and students.

Part C - Pilot Textbook Procurement Fund Component ($11.15 million total)

The objective of the fund was to assist selected oblasts to obtain textbooks in a manner which would
contribute towards: (a) overcoming barriers to entry by assuring payments to publishers and by structuring
payments in a manner that addresses working capital requirements; (b) introduce a more competitive
selection of textbooks and the eventual demonopolization of the textbook publishing industry; (c) speeding
up the development and selection of new, more appropriate texts for secondary schools; and (d) the creation
of a sustainable system of funding for textbook supply for the secondary education system.

Project Administration ($7 million total)

3.4 Revised Components:
In November 1999, the GOR (Government of Russia) requested that Part C (Textbook Procurement Fund)
be cancelled and loan funds reallocated to Part A ($1 million) and Part B ($4 million) with $3 million of the
$71 million loan cancelled. The cancellation was due to the devaluation of the ruble during 1998. At that
point it would have been impossible for regions to pay back any money to the fund and it became
impractical to operate it. Funds were reallocated to activities supportive of existing project objectives. The
total amount of the loan became US$65.75 million (see below for the breakdown of loan funds by
components).

Part A - Higher Education Innovation Fund Component ($40.3 million)
Part B - School Textbook Reform Component ($18.67 million)
Part C - Pilot Textbook Procurement Fund Component ($0.00)


                                                     - 2 -

Project Administration ($6.78 million)

Subsequently project teams were also able to undertake further re-allocations to other activities under the
original objectives. For example, at the end of the program US$1.3 million which became available to the
Higher Education Fund was reallocated to the creation of the training centers which contributed to quality
improvements. Increases were also made in the allocations to five HEIs who had used all their funds,
achieved the planned outcomes and requested additional funding against additional work relevant to the
project development objectives. It might be argued that a formal re-structuring should have been
undertaken, but as the main objectives remained relevant this was not thought necessary at the time.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
This was the first education project signed with the Russian Federation and as such broke new ground for
the Government of Russia and the Ministry of Education (MoE). An extensive period of negotiations with
the government identified a wide range of needs for the education system both in terms of policy reforms
and service provision. However the timing was not right for a project that would encompass broad
educational reforms. The complexity of the discussions is reflected in the long time span between Project
Concept Document (PCD) and appraisal. The Government and the Bank therefore took the route of
addressing specific needs that would both provide direct inputs to the system (books and higher education
curricula) as well as put in place a modest pilot framework for systemic change in those two areas. Project
design was complicated by the size of the country - available loan resources would not have covered a
systemic reform affecting all institutions.

Project preparation activities benefited from two Japanese funded PHRD grants (US $1.6 million total,
these funds are reflected in preparation funding but formed the basis for wider sector work) and a Project
Preparation Facility (US $1 million). Components were chosen to address needs also accorded priority in
the CAS of October 1996 and in the Social Sector Strategy Note. The project design period was followed
by a quick appraisal and Board approval. The project did not undergo a Quality at Entry Review (QER)
review as this process was not in place at the time of project design. Peer review comments noted that the
project components were not placed in the context of a broader systemic reform.

Project design contained an assumption that the right incentives can be the key to institutional reforms. The
goal was to make both the textbook provision system and selected higher education institutions responsive
to changing market demands as well as provide ongoing incentives for improvements in efficiency as well
as quality. The intention was to pilot a process of institutional change from the bottom up.

l The Higher Education component addressed the need to modernize teaching in the social sciences,
    which were seen as key disciplines needed in the transition to a market economy. In addition,
    improving the governance and management of HEIs was intended to develop models which would
    impact all aspects of higher education. This component was a highly innovative example of lending
    directly to institutions, which in fact is probably one of a kind even now, and at the time was quite
    revolutionary. Institutions were obligated to pay back a significant portion of the funds awarded under
    the Higher Education Fund (HEF). The objective that the project would facilitate the closure of
    inefficient institutions was never achievable given the pilot nature of the program.
l The design of the textbook component was very specific to the Russian context. It aimed to improve
    the provision of books in areas which were not covered by existing textbook provision and to establish
    ordering systems and educational standards that would help to improve the quality and availability of
    textbooks in the longer term. It did not finance textbook provision, or the editorial process or
    manufacture and distribution of books as is common in Bank financed projects.




                                                      - 3 -

The overall project design met immediate needs of the country. It set the stage for a successful series of
projects in the education sector. The project built on activities under the then Management and Training
Project (Loan No. 3824-RU) by selecting the National Training Foundation (NTF) as the implementing
agency. It also built on experiences in the use of higher education funds and textbook reform in a number
of other countries in the Eastern European region.

An extensive stakeholder consultation process both at the central and regional levels, including interviews,
surveys and studies, enabled project activities to be owned by the beneficiaries and contributed to the
success of the program.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project had limited objectives which were intended to set the stage for broader systemic change. With
regard to the higher education component, the quality and quantity of courses available in the social
sciences improved as can be seen by the beneficiary survey results. With regard to the governance and
efficiency of higher education institutions, project activities introduced a comprehensive planning process
into the university system, starting the practice of making universities publically accountable for the use of
funds.

Improvements in the quality and availability of textbooks for selected areas of the curriculum were
achieved and a prototype system for identifying textbook needs put in place. The textbook publishing
market was significantly altered through the introduction of a competitive process for textbook purchase.
The desired outcome was obtained and the objectives met for this component.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Higher Education Innovation Fund Component: All the sub components of the higher education
component attained their output targets.

1. Increase quality of Educational components in Social Sciences.A slight change in the assessed need for
accreditation committees resulted in the creation of one committee with three sub-committees, achieving the
same end as anticipated in the original indicator. Participation in national and international professional
meetings greatly exceeded targets at project completion.

2. Increased quantity of provision of Social Sciences Courses. Two hundred and twenty syllabi were
recognized by the Expert Committees and sixty disseminated locally. The number of places in relevant
programs increased by 22,000.

3. Improvement of governance of HEIs involved in the project. By the end of the project thirty four
universities had published a comprehensive Development Plan for their institutions, and forty two
departments had been created or restructured through the innovation fund. New structures were created to
enable the wider participation of students and professors in university management.

4. Improved efficiency in use of resources. This was not a realistic objective in terms of system change.
However activities to improve governance did contribute significantly to the efficiency of some institutions
receiving HEF funding, and opened the door for improved governance in all higher education institutions.
Twenty two universities had published audited reports.

5. Spin off effects: A number of activities not anticipated at the outset, but which had significant impact



                                                      - 4 -

on the quality of higher education in the social sciences, were: a) the creation of national re-training centers
for university staff; b) a program of university library improvement; c) an increasing role for professional
associations in improving teaching in institutions of higher education.

School Textbook Reform Component:

1. Autonomous authoritative body established to produce independent, professional evaluations. The
Federal Expert Council was re-structured as a semi-autonomous body with transparent procedures and
improved expertise.

2.   Development of 150 new titles for the revised Federal list. This indicator was met and surpassed. An
analysis of the Federal List of Textbooks was carried out and new grants were provided for book
development to fill gaps where materials were not available. Project funds were used to develop 462 new
textbook titles (making a total of 295 textbook sets with total print runs of more than 22 million copies).
Among them the most prominent are:

l Three complete sets of elementary school textbooks using specific materials developed for a four-year
     elementary education.
l Four complete sets on Russian Language for four basic language groups (Turkic, Mongolian,
     Abkhaz-Adyg and Finno-Ugric). The existing teaching materials had not been updated since the 1960s;
l Forty-six textbook sets for special schools. These updated the list of textbooks for children with
     special needs, and also for the first time created textbooks on a number of new subjects;
l Manuals for high achieving schools;
l Modern materials on foreign languages with updated contents;


3. To encourage efficiency through the development of a Textbook Information System (TIS). The
objective was to involve the establishment of a Books in Print database/catalog and a textbook
information/ordering network. The indicators were to be a Database/catalog in hard copy and on line and
a network to provide an ordering system to raion level. These targets were achieved. The database catalog
is still being upgraded and is available to local resource centers.

Additional spin-off effects:    The reallocation of funds within the project enabled the following activities to
be undertaken:

l Specific activities for libraries included; a) the procurement and dissemination of library software to
     39,512 school libraries; b) the development of a training program for school librarians; c) the training
     of school librarians and library trainers from 18 regions of the Russian Federation; d) the rehabilitation
     of a historical collection on early teaching and learning materials.
l Under the e-learning activity a number of very interesting activities were carried out including; a) the
     development of e-learning materials and new models for designing and evaluating such materials; b) the
     enlargement of the pool of textbook authors to include regional authors and young teachers; c) the
     development of new evaluation criteria for textbooks and an evaluation mechanism; and d) the
     development of a new model of textbook promotion
l Under the component B4, "Training", a model for training publishers was developed and five different
     models for on the job training of textbook authors were developed.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
There was no attempt to calculate an economic rate of return to project activities, as the type of activity
was too uncertain, and dependent on too many variables to enable a meaningful calculation to be made.



                                                       - 5 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Similarly there was no calculation made of a financial rate of return. HEF repayments (20% of the cost)
were prompt, a sign of fiscal efficiency in those institutions which participated. An anticipated risk, that
HEIs would resort to dubious practices to obtain funding to repay the loans did not appear to materialize.
The project did impact significantly on the way HEIs raised, spent and accounted for finances. The main
activities dealing with the development of financial management systems under the Education Innovation
Project (EIP) were:

  l the creation of new structures for support of financial services
  l the development of models and mechanisms for distribution of HEI budgets between different
        structures and different activities
  l the development of normative documents in the area of financial management


These and other improvements to the financing of Higher Education were carried out through the HEF
program activities and not only impacted the 59 HEIs involved in the program, but set standards to be
taken up by the broader HE system (see further details in Section 10). However as these were only a small
proportion of HEIs in Russia it was unrealistic to assume that the project alone could influence the overall
financing of HE. In some regions there were significant savings due to the use of the TIS centers and more
efficient use of the existing textbook resources in school libraries.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had substantial impact on most of the higher education institutions which were involved in the
project, both substantively in terms of new course development and on the planning and budgeting for those
institutions involved in the program (see above and Annex 10). At the central level it supported several
quality non governmental agencies which are now self sustaining. In addition it provided guidelines for
national level quality control bodies such as the textbook evaluation committee. There were significant
spin-off effects to non participating universities which were involved in networks with universities receiving
assistance under the project.

At the local level of general education service delivery there was also considerable institutional
strengthening through support for school libraries, the development of regional resource centers and the
involvement of teachers in designing and choosing school materials. The latter changed the way that
teachers were involved in the choice of materials for the education system and was a radical change from
previous procedures.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The fall of the ruble in 1998 ruled out effective implementation of the textbook fund.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Insufficient attention had been paid at the design phase to internal blockages to the implementation of the
textbook procurement fund.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Lack of familiarity with disbursement and procurement procedures both at the central level and at the
institutional level should have been overcome earlier in the project to facilitate disbursements. More
flexible approaches to handling the administration associated with the Higher Education program could
also have been developed early in the program in conjunction with the Bank.



                                                      - 6 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
The ruble collapse (see above) altered the project financing.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project activities are likely to be successful in three ways: a) activities within given institutions will be
sustained (governance of higher education); b) new institutions created under the project are being
sustained (resource centers) ; c) some activities are continuing to impact the broader education system
(approaches to governance, textbook selection); d) materials produced under the project are being
replicated and utilized broadly.

Under Higher Education there is now flexibility for universities to improve upon and develop new curricula
which is a major shift in the way higher education is provided. The institutionalization of audit and
planning procedures is gradually becoming the norm for institutions of higher education. New approaches
to teaching social sciences are reflected in the state standards for education. A new Higher Education
project will build upon

Under the Textbook component, the textbook market opened up considerably to allow smaller publishers
to compete for the first time. Most of the Regional Data Centers (RDCs) have been integrated into regional
education systems. Initially RDCs were intended simply to be textbook information centers. A number of
these have became regional resource information centers which are now providing services across a wide
range of regional education activities. New criteria for evaluating textbooks developed within the project
will be used in the regular textbook approval process of the Federal Expert Council.

The MoES is playing a key role in ensuring dissemination of project results (see below for the extensive
support specifically targeted to activities building on EIP funded programs). In October 2003 and
February 2004, the Coordination Council of the Ministry of Education confirmed the importance of the
disseminating project activities. A wide range of spin-off effects, (some of which are also noted below and
in Annex 10) including the creation of NGOs such as the National Data Center, has increased the likelihood
of sustainability. In addition, the development of e-learning activities has expanded dramatically under the
new E-learning project. Overall, the sustainability of the systems and activities supported by the project is
Highly Likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Higher Education Innovation Fund Component

l Sustainability of HEF activities is now being ensured through support from the current Ministry of
    Educations Federal Program for Education Development (FPED) -2005 (see part 5 on dissemination of
    the best experiences of value for education development and achieved within international projects).
    Activities to be funded include: a) support for re-training centers in the areas of sociology, political
    sciences and economics (based on specific HEIs); b) support for the Independent Committee for the
    certification of teaching materials (NTF); c) support for retraining of librarians from secondary schools
    (arising from the programs developed within EIP); and d) support for publishing and delivery of the
    best textbooks developed within EIP Part A (sociology, political sciences and economics) and Part B
    (textbooks for correctional education - children with special needs). A further activity to be provided
    with continuation financing by the MoES will be dedicated to developing Joint Degree Programs. This
    program will be open to competing implementing organizations.



                                                        - 7 -

l Additional activities relating to the Independent Certification Committee are also being supported in the
    current MoES program. Here future funding will continue to support activities focused on the
    improvement of quality assurance procedures, perhaps extended to areas such as history and pedagogy
    of professional education. Dissemination, the production of training materials, and implementation of
    pilot certification of up to 200 sets of teaching materials are to be financed.

l The retraining centers have continued to run programs after the closure of the project and have
    expanded to include staff from HEI's that were not beneficiaries of EIP. The Ministry of Education
    has accepted their new statutes and they will be generating income by receiving payments from
    participants who attend their programs.

School Textbook Reform Component:

l The textbook competition process was extremely well organized by NTF. The way in which materials
    were evaluated (criteria and weighting) and the development process under the NTF's evaluation
    panels have developed models of global relevance. Although this was not foreseen, they are being used
    in Russia in the new E-Learning Support Project.

l With regard to the publication of new titles, it was never the intention that textbook competitions
    should continue once the project ended. The three main aims of the competitions were: a) to fill the
    gaps in the Federal List; b) to enable authors to compete to develop textbooks in their own right rather
    than their being put forward by publishers; and c) to bring together winning authors and medium and
    small size publishers and to provide funds to the publishers for the final development of manuscripts
    and for the promotion of the finished books. All these aims were achieved.

l The development of new titles will be the responsibility of the market now the project has closed.
    Independent authors will need to work through publishers, including the medium and small size
    publishers who have benefited from the project and are financially more secure as a result. Similarly
    training of authors will be dependent on the market and the willingness of publishers to pay for such
    training to improve their products.

l There are also measures in the 2005 Federal Program for Education Development which will ensure the
    continuation of other project activities (see above). These are training of school librarians (800
    specialists) and publishing and delivery to the Russian Federation schools of 25 special education
    books.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was the first education project for the Russian Federation and as such broke new ground. It
broke the ice with the client and set the stage for further lending. The Bank team was working with two
government agencies which complicated agreements. Preparation and dialogue with the government were
extensive.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance was internally reviewed for Quality of Supervision in 2000 and given a rating of "2" or
satisfactory. The Quality of Supervision report commented positively on such aspects of project
supervision as: a) continuity in staff: b) attention to capacity building and; c) progress in discussions on
key policy issues. The Bank team was largely field-based, supplemented as necessary by external visiting


                                                       - 8 -

teams. Twenty missions were held under the Project varying from 2 to 20 days in length. Foreign technical
assistance attached to the project was consistent throughout the project period and provided a high level of
advice. The Bank project team was pro-active in working with government counterparts to resolve short
term problems. For example four HEI projects that were unable to make significant progress in
implementation had significant reduction in their funding allocation. When it became apparent that there
would be no improvement the reduction in the funds was agreed with the HEI and ratified by the NTF
Board and the sub-loan agreement amended.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall the Bank performance can be rated as S.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
After an initial concept had been drafted, extensive discussions followed to identify key areas for
investment. Once these were agreed upon the project preparation period was short, facilitated by good
cooperation with the Government of Russia, including the Ministry of Education staff.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government ownership from the beginning was crucial in moving project activities ahead. This
commitment increased over the duration of the project and remains, as demonstrated by continuing
substantive discussions within the Ministry of Education on ensuring that project activities remain
sustainable.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency, the NTF, established under the earlier Managment and Training Project
struggled at first to learn new procedures and adapt to changed processes. Procurement capacity was weak
in the initial phases. In addition, initial disbursements were slow partly due to low capacity at some of the
HEIs receiving HEF funding. This was a complex project to operationalize. Implementation issues
included changes in the senior HEI staff, inability in the HEIs to come to terms with new procedures,
ineffective team-work in the HEIs, and inbred resistance to change. However implementation improved
rapidly and was excellent by project completion. The NTF staff demonstrated both administrative and
substantive excellent performance as demonstrated by the extensive documentation and attention to detail in
their final reports. No major financial management issues came to light during the project period, and
procurement issues were relatively minor and resolved.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Client performance was S. (rating is affected by the earlier years of implementation - HS by the
end of the program).

8. Lessons Learned

The project was developed during a time when the context of social service delivery in Russia was rapidly
evolving. Thus it took place in a very dynamic and exciting period of history for the Russian education
system. The challenges facing a financially constrained education system wishing to upgrade and alter
service delivery while maintaining the integrity and high level of capacity of former years were
considerable. The project also faced difficulties in addressing the needs of such a large country, where
selectivity in activities to be financed was essential. Some of the lessons learned from this project are
useful for all countries undergoing similar changes, and others are specific to the Russian context.




                                                       - 9 -

Generic Lessons:

l Consistent staffing patterns from the Bank and Client sides facilitates good implementation. Timely
   high level technical assistance is necessary to provide advice at crucial stages of program development.

l Building capacity in implementing agencies whether at Federal or local level is crucial to sustainability

l Bottom Up approaches to institutionalizing change do work - a limited amount of funding can facilitate
   significant change but should be supported also by policy dialogue. Fund mechanisms are an excellent
   way to support systemic change from the bottom up but have a long run-up time. Multiple procedures
   have to be learnt, administrative time is high, and there is usually a disbursement lag before the project
   gets up to speed. In addition if targeting of beneficiaries is not accurate, or there are insufficient
   supports for weak institutions to ensure quality results, the learning process can be unduly costly.
   Choices may have to be made between supporting strong institutions that could lead the way in the
   change process or setting standards that will ensure equity in project outcomes across a range of
   institutions.

l Flexibility in adapting project activities when necessary is vital when working in a rapidly changing
   environment.

l Not all activities will be sustainable - transitioning to a free market often means that change becomes
   more, not less rapid. It is the principle of change that should be sustainable. In the case of this project
   the outcome is that it is now acceptable to have more choice in books and in those who publish and
   write them.

l When project activities are decentralized to regional levels of government or to institutions, they
   become more difficult to monitor, and more susceptible to swings in local priorities and funding. This
   is not to say that decentralization should not take place, but rather that there should be mechanisms in
   place to ensure that local as well as national governments see investments developed under Bank
   funded projects as priorities.

l A success of the project was to demonstrate that lending directly to institutions ( in this case for Higher
   Education) is a viable way to encourage change. Higher institutions were surprisingly interested in
   borrowing for self improvement and the take up rate for the funding was higher than originally
   anticipated.

l Designing projects for large countries, where the Bank financing can only provide catalytic impetus is a
   significant challenge and the mechanisms piloted by this program should be utilized elsewhere.

Project Specific Lessons:

l The initial design of the project did not take into account institutional barriers to implementing some of
   the project components such as the textbook fund, nor the enormous amount of processing work to be
   done for the implementation of the Higher Education Fund. Template processing documents, for
   example for TORs, should be developed for activities of this kind, especially where capacity is weak.

l The Higher Education Fund mechanism tended to have more impact on educational institutions with
   high levels of capacity rather than those who were less capable. It might have been possible to identify
   failing institutions earlier in the project period to provide these with specific supports to see if they
   could improve their response to the competitive nature of the Fund.

l The project outcomes could have been improved by a stronger focus on training for teachers and for
   regional staff on criteria for choosing textbooks so they could better exercise their right to choice. It is
   very easy to underestimate the amount of training needed to allow individuals who have not been


                                                      - 10 -

    involved in strategic choices for the education system to participate fully in decision making.

l The Bank needs to ensure that continued program support is in place when major activities are piloted.
    In this case there is no strategic instrument to ensure that work on Higher Education will continue, and
    the changes piloted by this project are extensive. Although sustainability is highly likely given the need
    for change and government support for that change, there was insufficient attention to this when
    developing other projects in the portfolio.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                                 NATIONAL TRAINING FOUNDATION
                                EDUCATION INNOVATION PRTOJECT
                                             (LOAN #4183-RU)
                                                  1998 - 2004
                            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

The Loan · 4183-RU of $ 65,75 mln for financing of Education Innovation Project (EIP) was provided
based on the RF ­ IBRD Loan Agreement. The loan became effective on April 20, 1998 with the Closing
date was established as December 31, 2004.

Key project objectives defined were:
l Improvement of socio-economic education, management, resource usage effectiveness in HEIs, selected
    on a competitive basis, and dissemination of best outcomes across the whole higher education system;
l Improvement of school textbook quality and their availability to Russian Federation schools.


These objectives are supposed to be achieved through implementation of 2 main components of Education
Innovation Project.

The component A "Higher education innovation fund" included four interrelated programmes that were
aimed at addressing key issues of higher education improvement. Funds were allocated to HEIs on a
competitive basis. Priority was placed on projects, including the following:
-       Deep-going education renovation aiming to its democratisation, students' educational efforts
        activation, higher academic mobility, evaluation standards and procedures rationalization;
-       Active implementation of advanced education methods and forms and outcome results evaluation;
-       Use of advanced information technologies in education, including electronic learning materials
        development and use.
The component B "School Textbook Reform" of the Education Innovation Project contributed to
sustainable and efficient market supply of schools with textbooks and improvement of educational literature
quality.

The Education Innovation Project (EIP) was implemented by the National Training Foundation (NTF). The
NTF and MoES Strategic Committee was responsible for most adequate and timely project implementation
evaluation, improving its effectiveness and enhancing control over purpose-oriented funds usage.

Project outputs and outcomes
2.1.    Component A ­ Higher Education innovation fund
Under Component A 7 rounds under Programme A1, 5 rounds under Programme A2 and 3 rounds under
Programme A3 the following rounds of competition were completed. The total of HEIs which took part in



                                                      - 11 -

project implementation was 59, of which 41 HEIs were regional. The share of funds, allocated for regional
HEIS equals to 46,7% of total Component costs.
l 4 Federal higher education system teachers re-training centers created within EIP;
l 992 sets of training and teaching materials for new courses were developed, of which 1/3 was approved
    for wide use in teaching of social-economic sciences in the Russian university;
l Different models of governance were developed and implemented in 22 HEIs, including:


1.       Financial and strategic resources
    ·    Strategic management as a key tool for effective financial management was developed in 18 HEIs;
    ·    Business plans for HEIs strategic development were proposed in 8 HEIs.
    ·    Principles and mechanisms for formation and distribution of consolidated HEI budget were
         developed and introduced in 17 HEIs (of 22 participated in A2 Programme)
    ·    Full financial codex was developed and introduced in MEPHI;
    ·    Information system for financial services were developed in 8 HEIs;
    ·    Principles for financing of scientific research were developed in 2 HEIs;
    ·    Marketing services were created in 6 HEIs.

2.       Personnel and human resources
    ·    Wide participation of HEI administrative staff in in-service training (f.e. more than 350
         administrators in TomskPU);
    ·    Ranking of faculties and professors based on internal assessment as a toll for salary' calculation
         was used in 3 HEIs;
    ·    More effective use of students in HEI management was implemented in RAE.

3.       Libraries/Information resources management
    ·    Introduction of ICT in HEIs libraries management, new services (based on ICT) as well as 24
         indicators for assessment of efficiency in libraries management were introduced in 21 HEIs.

2.2.     Component B "School Textbook Reform"

l The complete set of materials include recommendations on modernization of educational process at
    initial, basic and senior (stream based) school; recommendations on modernization of pedagogical
    education; recommendations on the basic directions of transition to the education content on the basis of
    key competences are in final completion were developed and disseminated;
l A new multi-level textbook evaluation system was developed and tested; 15 Rounds of textbooks
    competition were announced based on the results of structural and content analyses of the Federal lists
    of textbooks. 295 textbook methodological sets (TMS) (or 462 textbooks and supporting materials)
    were developed;
l Based on the analysis of foreign educational editions for schools from the USA and European countries
    the exhibition of the Collection of textbooks from Great Britain, Germany, France, the USA, Czech
    Republic, Bulgaria and Poland (total - 497 positions) was set up at the National Data Center (NDC).
l Textbook Information System (TIS) was formed up on the basis of a National and 36 Regional Data
    Centers.
l The electronic textbook catalogue with regional electronic catalogues have been created;
l A model of training authors of new-generation textbooks was created and tested. The recommendations
    on forming and training of authors' teams were developed and adopted.
l Requirements to new-generation school textbooks were formulated and made up, including motivation
    of school students to studies, search for information, etc.
l A model of publishing house personnel training and retraining was developed, including study materials



                                                      - 12 -

    (working programs of two courses, study materials for the trainees, and teaching materials for seminar
    lecturers), recommendations for formation of an experts' team for the conduct of seminars.
l Training programs for regional specialists in using TIS and library software delivered to Russian
    Federation schools. This type of work is an important line in RDC activities.

Use of project funds. On January 1, 2005 the total number of contracts signed equals 2,350 for the total
amount of USD 58,48 mln (excluding Project management costs), or 98,5%, of total project funds. Of
those the total amount of funds disbursed equals to USD 64,09 mln (or 97,48% of funds). The share of
funds used under component A is 95.345 (or USD 38,42 mln) and under component B ­ 98.75% (or USD
18,43 mln).

Under Component A loan funds were allocated to the Russian HEIs under Sub-loan Agreements on a paid,
timely and partially repayable basis (20,28% repayment) or Target-oriented grant Agreements. By project
closing date about 9% of HEIs SLA portion of the Loan has been repaid to MinFin. Some HEIs
(Sevmashvtuz, Kuban State Univarsity and others) had already repaid their subloans.
In general it may be said project objectives identified in the course of project preparation are met and
project achievements correspond to basic priorities of modernization of education system of the Russian
Federation.

Sustainability
-       The RF Ministry of Education and Science will provide financial support for Federal retraining
        centers in Economics, Sociology and Political Sciences in 2005 to train more than 1000 professors
        from regional HEIS.
-       The RF Ministry of Education and Science in 2005 will provide financial support for Independent
        Committee on Certification of Teaching Materials in Economics, Sociology and Political Sciences
        functioning through Federal Programme for Education Development (for expertise only). It is also
        planned to extent ICC experience to new professional areas ­ history and engineering pedagogic;
-       Re-training Programme in Quality management based on SPbSEU ­ "LETI", it is expected that
        these courses will be very powerful and requested in coming years because of importance of this
        matter (quality management) for HEIs in view of new requirements dealing with licensing and
        accreditation;
-       Close cooperation with Association of Regional Library Consortia allowed to include HEIs
        libraries participated in EIP into huge association for professional communication, to shear
        information and other intellectual resources. It is expected that in 2005 MoES will support training
        of 1200 university librarians form different Russian universities in 4 HEIs participated in EIP who
        developed new professional courses for librarians;
-       Experts' pool. In the year 2004 NTF experts were invited to develop programmes in the field of
        Higher Education by "New Eurasia" Foundation, Ford Foundation, British Council. According to
        agreement between NTF and Federal Programme "Children of Russia" Office and "Federal
        Programme for Education Development" NTF experts did a professional expertise of applications
        for these programmes;
-       The Competition proved the advantages of the project model of textbook production. It was made
        possible due to the multistage textbook manuscript evaluation by clear-cut criteria and authors'
        instruction in the period of working on the manuscript.
-       The new model of textbook promotion that was tried in the Competition harmonizes the interests of
        all participants in the process of textbook making and use with emphasis on cooperation with
        teachers. The model proves to be more effective and less expensive if the publisher promotes not a
        single textbook but a subject-and-methodological line or a textbook set;
-       The National Data Center itself is now autonomous and self financing as well as the majority of


                                                     - 13 -

         RDCs. However a small number of RDCs may not survive once the project ends. The MOES
         regards the RDCs not only in providing book data but also in the work that they can carry out in
         collaboration with regional education authorities.;
-        The MOES has taken responsibility for distributing to the Russian Federation schools the ELMs
         produced under the Competition (Round 9) in 2004-2005;
-        Some dissemination measures were also envisaged in the 2005 Federal Program for Education
         Development. These are school librarians training (800 specialists) and publishing; publishing and
         delivery to the Russian Federation schools 25 special education titles ­ winners of the Competition.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Text of the Letter from British Council to the National Training Foundation

Mrs. Elena Soboleva,
Executive Director,
National Training Foundation,

Dear Mrs. Soboleva,

The British Council in cooperation with National Training Foundation successfully realizes projects in the
field of education and English language teaching.

Textbooks "New Millennium English" created within the framework of the project of the British Council in
2001-2002 on development of teaching materials for a comprehensive school have taken part and
became winners of the NTF competition for new generation of educational literature development.

The new stage of the project "Textbooks" on creation of materials for an elementary school was initiated
the British Council in cooperation with NTF in 2002. The team from 14 authors - practising school
teachers is created as a result of this project. The unique model of preparation of authors - developers of
the new educational literature was once again successfully tested and modern textbooks for elementary
school were also prepared.
The textbooks created within the framework of the projects, have the big success at teachers and pupils
to what results of piloting at schools on a prepublishing phase testify, successful experimental probation
at the schools, spent by the Russian Federation Ministry of Education and Sciences, and growth of sale
"New Millennium English" for last half-year on 40 %.

In 2003 NTF was authorized by the Russian Federation Ministry of Education and Sciences to support
development of the BRIDGE project - Russian - British cooperation in higher education. NTF was
co-financer of the number of actions within the framework of this project. Conditions of realization of
competition were developed, winners of the first stage of the project are revealed. The search resource
designed for Universities which would like to establish partnership with British Universities is developed.
The purpose of this partnership is development of the joint educational programs conducting to reception
of double diplomas. Seminars for potential participants of the project who have allowed to determine a
circle of the interested high schools spent.

The British Council estimates cooperation with NTF as perspective and very successful and hopes for its
continuation.

Yours faithfully,

Elena Lenskaya,
The British Council Deputy Director




                                                    - 14 -

- 15 -

10. Additional Information

  The impact of the project on financing and financial management of HEIs: The PAD (6.5)
  indicates that the project should result in savings in educational costs as a result of more efficient use of
  resources in HEIs and incentives for more transparent management and accounting practices within
  HEIs. Examples of the types of activity that were developed under the HE grant scheme follow:

  The creation of new structures within universities: Examples are:
 l the marketing department in Tomsk State Pedagogical University (TSPU) and Moscow State
      univeristy of Geodesy and Cartography (MSUGiC);
 l centers of normative expenditures and centers of investments at each faculty in Altay State
      Technical University (AltSTU);
 l the center for Strategic management in Mordovian State University (Mord.SU) and Moscow
      Engineering - Phisics Institute (MEPHI)

  Examples of new models and mechanisms include:
 l Differing approaches to financing HE with respect to the balance between "university part" and "
      structural" part within money owned by university structures (f.e. in Saint-Petersburg State
      University of Information Technologies, Mechanics and Optics (former Institute of Fine Mechanics
      and Optics, IFMO) ­ 50% income from commercial education for university fund and 50% - for
      structural funds)
 l New recommendations for how finances are distributed between and within activities (within money
      owned due to research and grants ­ 10% should be used for new equipment and 16% for overheads)
 l An "open" procedures of budget distribution (with proposals publicly defended by each university
      department) in Tuymen State Gas and Oil University (TyumSGOU)
 l Complex targeted program for development of Tomsk Polytechnic University (TPU) foresees that
      30% of total university budget will be used for complex programs, 20% - for targeted programs and
      50% - for development programs at faculty level
 l The development of normative documents on financing issues in a number of universities.


  It was not possible to monitor improved quality in graduates or savings in expenditures on higher
  education. The focus of the project was on developing course materials. Course materials were only
  introduced into the study process in 2003, so the number of graduates who have completed the new
  courses is relatively small. However the number of HEIs in the field of economics as well as the number
  of students has significantly increased during last 10 years (see Picture 1).

                                ?i?. 1 Number of State HEIs in different branches


                        200                                                                industry

                        150                                                                agriculture

                                                                                           transport
                        100
                                                                                           economics
                         50                                                                health

                          0                                                                education
                                       1993                     2003                       art




                                                    - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                             1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
New curricula in sociology, economics and
political science are introduced in
participating universities.
- Number of accreditation committees           3                                  3 (NTF expert Committees);
created and functioning                                                           1 (Independent Accreditation Committee)
- Accredited syllabi and training materials    50                                 220 EC, 61 national dissemination
- Number of trainees who participated in       1,257                              1438 for Window 1; 1700 for Window 2
qualification upgrading or internships

- Participation in professional conferences on 140                                378 in Window 1; 406 in Window 2
the national and international level

Greater presence of education in the fields of
sociology, economics, political science in
higher education institutions
- Number of new and reformed syllabi           203                                992
implemented

- Enrollment in the new and re-designed        22,500                             22,000
courses (according to level of training -
Bachelor, Specialist, Master)

Modernized and effective organizational
structure of HEIs. Democratization of
governance
- Number of units created and restructured     90                                 42 (number of HEIs-participants with new
through the Innovation Fund Windows                                               subdivisions created)
- Development Plan published                   31                                 21(number of HEIs-participants with
                                                                                  appropriate documents developed) + 15 for
                                                                                  libraries
 - Revised HEI's Charter registered            13                                 19 (number of HEIs-participants with
(reflecting changes in organizational                                             appropriate documents developed)
structure)

- The structures of self-governance in place 15                                   15 (number of HEIs-participants with
                                                                                  appropriate structures created including
                                                                                  Advisory Boards, Boards of Trustees,
                                                                                  student self governance, etc.)
New system and approaches for effective
use of the resources in HEIs
- Published audited reports                    15                                 35 W, 124 W2 (number of SLAs audited)

 - Increase in number of computers,            300                                43 W2 (number of HEIs-participants with
programs and computer networks                                                    appropriate measures taken)

Development of "new generation" of
textbooks
- Schools participating in new standards       60                                 140
piloting
- Standards descriptions published (one per    3                                  12 - primary school, 17 - basic school, 16 -
subjects)                                                                         high school

- Number of new textbooks and learning         200                                462 titles
materials published

Establishment of new transparent system of
the textbook evaluation and approval

- Autonomous authoritive body established
enable of independent, transparent,            Restructured FEC operative         Restructured FEC operative
professional evaluations




                                                               - 17 -

Building National capacity for textbook
development, editing and publishing

- Authors, editors, publishers re-trained     200                                        200 textbook authors; 7000 school librarians;
                                                                                         110 publishers
Encourage efficiency and transparency in
textbooks provision
- National and Regional Data centers are      50 RDCs, 1 NDC: Network fully funcitoning, 1 NDC and 36 RDCs (33 financed from EIP
established                                   ordering system established                and 3 financed locally)


Output Indicators:
                                                                             1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
This format is used for projects prepared with
the use of the Logframe. Not applicable to
EIP.




1End of project




                                                               - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Part A. Higher Education Innovation Fund                    55.25          43.22               78
Part B. School Textbook Reform                              22.20          21.23               96
Part C. Pilot Textbook Procurement Fund                     11.15            0.00               0
Project Administration                                       7.00            6.47              92
PPF Refinancing                                              1.00            0.81              81

Total Baseline Cost                                         96.60          71.73
                         Total Project Costs                96.60          71.73
                   Total Financing Required                 96.60          71.73


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00         2.30         1.23          3.53
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.60)         (0.00)       (1.60)
2. Goods                          20.00             3.15        10.15         5.66         38.96
                                 (16.00)           (2.21)      (6.29)         (0.00)      (24.50)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00        37.87         7.74         45.61
including Consultant              (0.00)           (0.00)      (37.10)        (0.00)      (37.10)
Services,
Seminars/workshops,
Grants for
Authors/Publishers
Project Administration             0.00             0.00         6.80         0.70          7.50
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (6.80)         (0.00)       (6.80)
PPF Advance                        0.00             0.00         1.00         0.00          1.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.00)         (0.00)       (1.00)
   Total                          20.00             3.15        58.12         15.33        96.60
                                 (16.00)           (2.21)      (52.79)        (0.00)      (71.00)




                                                - 19 -

  The appraisal estimate of the total project cost ($96.6 million) include Duties and Taxes in the amount of
  $9.6 million.

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              2.13             0.00              2.13
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.49)            (0.00)           (1.49)
  2. Goods                                 7.52               7.54              7.74             0.00             22.80
                                          (5.65)             (5.43)            (5.72)            (0.00)           (16.80)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00             40.02             0.00             40.02
  including Consultant                    (0.00)             (0.00)           (38.56)            (0.00)           (38.56)
  Services,
  Seminars/workshops,
  Grants for
  Authors/Publishers
  Project Administration                   0.00               0.00              6.00             0.00              6.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (6.00)            (0.00)           (6.00)
  PPF Advance                              0.00               0.00              0.78             0.00              0.78
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.78)            (0.00)           (0.78)
       Total                               7.52               7.54             56.67             0.00             71.73
                                          (5.65)             (5.43)           (52.55)            (0.00)           (63.63)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Part A. Higher Education      39.50        15.75                    38.42         4.80                  97.3      30.5
Innovation Fund
Part B. School Textbook       15.70         6.50                    18.43         2.80                  117.4     43.1
Reform
Part C. Pilot Textbook         8.00         3.15                     0.00         0.00                   0.0      0.0
Procurement Fund
Project Administration         6.80         0.20                     6.00         0.47                  88.2     235.0
PPF Refinancing                1.00                                  0.78         0.03                  78.0




                                                          - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable to this project.




                                      - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/13/1995                5    Team Leader (1); Education
                                             Specialist (1); Publishing
                                             Specialist (1); Economist (2)
              7/14/1995                 3    Team Leader (1); Economist (2)
              10/20/1995                7    Team Leader (1); Education
                                             Specialist (1); Testing and
                                             Assesment Specialist (1);
                                             Statistics Expert (1); Economist
                                             (2); Project Assistant (1)
              12/22/1995                3    Team Leader (1); Education
                                             Specialist (1); Economist (1)
              9/27/1996                 8    Team Leader (1); Education
                                             Specialist (1); Consultants (3);
                                             Economist (1); Project Assistant
                                             (1); Procurement Specialist (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/20/1996                8    Team Leader (1); Education
                                             Specialist (4); Procurement
                                             Specialist (1); Economist (1);
                                             Project Assistant (1)


 Supervision

              06/27/1997                7    IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);             S               S
                                             HIGHER EDUCATION SPEC.
                                             (1); MONITORING SPEC. (1);
                                             TEXTBOOK SPEC. (1);
                                             MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             PROGRAM OFFICER (1)
              10/17/1997                6    HIGHER EDUCATION SPEC.                S               S
                                             (1); MONITORING SPEC. (1);
                                             TEXTBOOK SPEC. (1);
                                             MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             PROGRAM OFFICER (1)
              02/12/1998                6    MISSION LEADER (1);                   U               S
                                             HIGHER EDUCATION SPEC.
                                             (1); TEXTBOOK SPEC. (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             PROGRAM OFFICER (1)
              05/29/1998                4    MISSION LEADER (1);                   S               S
                                             HIGHER EDUCATION SPEC.



                                              - 22 -

                (1); TEXTBOOK SPEC. (1);
                EDUCATION SPEC. (1)
09/30/1998    3 MISSION LEADER (1);             U    S
                OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                PROGRAM OFFICER (1)
01/31/1999    5 MISSION LEADER (1);             U    S
                OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                IMPLEMENTATIO SPEC. (1);
                HIGHER EDUCATION SPEC.
                (1); TEXTBOOK SPEC. (1)
07/30/1999    5 PROGRAM TEAM LEADER             U    S
                (1); MISSION LEADER (1);
                CONSULTANT (2); PROJECT
                OFFICER (1)
07/30/1999    5 PROGRAM TEAM LEADER             S    S
                (1); DEPUTY MISSION
                LEADER (1); EDUCATION
                SPECIALIST (1); TEXTBOOK
                SPECIALIST (1); HIGHER ED.
                SPECIALIST (1)
07/25/2000    5 PROGRAM TEAM LEADER             S    S
                (1); MISSION LEADER (1); ED
                SPECIALIST - RM (1); HIGHER
                ED SPECIALIST (1);
                TEXTBOOK SPECIALIST (1)
02/01/2001    3 PROGRAM TEAM LEADER             S    S
                (1); ED. SPECIALIST - RM (1);
                HIGHER ED. SPECIALIST (1)
07/20/2001    6 PROGRAM TEAM LEADER             S    S
                (1); EDUC. SPECIALIST- RM
                (1); OPERATIONS (1); HIGHER
                ED. SPECIALIST (1);
                TEXTBOOK SPECIALIST (1);
                PROCUREMENT SPEC.- RM
                (1)
02/04/2002    6 TEAM LEADER: MOSCOW             S    S
                RM (1); OPERATIONS: HQ (1);
                PROCUREMENT: MOSCOW
                RM (1); FMS: MOSCOW RM
                (1); HIGHER ED. SPECIALIST
                (1); TEXTBOOKS SPECIALIST
                (1)
07/05/2002    6 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);           S    S
                OPERATIONS (1);
                PROCUREMENT (1);
                TEXTBOOKS SPECIALIST (1);
                HIGHER EDUC. SPEC. (1);
                RESEARCH ASSISTANT (1)
02/03/2003    7 TEAM LEADER, MOSCOW             S    S
                RM (1); PROGRAM
                ASSISTANT (1); RESEARCH
                ASSIST., RM (1);
                PROCUREMENT SP., RM (1);



                - 23 -

                                                  FMS, RM (1); TEXTBOOK
                                                  SPECIALIST (1); HIGHER
                                                  EDUC.SPECIALIST (1)
               07/30/2003                    7    TEAM LEADER, MOSCOW                    S          S
                                                  RM (1); PROGRAM
                                                  ASSISTANT (1); RESEARCH
                                                  ASSIST., RM (1);
                                                  PROCUREMENT SP., RM (1);
                                                  FMS, RM (1); TEXTBOOK
                                                  SPECIALIST (1); HIGHER
                                                  EDUC.SPECIALIST (1)
               01/28/2004                    7    TEAM LEADER, MOSCOW                    HS         HS
                                                  CO (1); RESEARCH
                                                  ANALYST, CO (1);
                                                  PROCUREMENT SP, CO (1);
                                                  FMS, MOSCOW CO (1);
                                                  HIGHER EDUC.SPECIALIST
                                                  (1); TEXTBOOK SPECIALIST
                                                  (1); ASSESSMENT
                                                  SPECIALIST (1)
               06/29/2004                    6    TEAM LEADER, MOSCOW                    HS         HS
                                                  (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT,
                                                  HQ (1); RESEARCH
                                                  ANALYST,MOSCO (1); PAS,
                                                  MOSCOW (1); TEXTBOOK
                                                  SPECIALIST (1);
                                                  ASSESSMENT SPECIALIST (1)

 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   312                            1,092
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                  204                            423.3
  ICR                                             2                             7.5
  Total                                        518                          1,522.8
Note: Appraisal/Negotiation costs are included in Identification/Preparation.
In addition to the Bank Budget, Bank-executed PHRD Grant in the amount of $1.14 US Dollars was used
for the preparation activities. The PHRD funded consultant costs are included in the table above.




                                                   - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Staff Appraisal Report
2. Back to Office Reports, Aide Memoires, Letters to Government
3. Final Consultants Reports, Textbook and Higher Education Component
4. Final Analytic Report on Textbook Component - GoR
5. Avtonomeov, Vladimir S., Dorochenko, Marina E., Zamkov, Oleg O., Final Analytic Report on Higher
Education Component Social Science Institutions capacity building - economics- GoR
6. National Training Foundation, Mid Term Report 2001, GoR




                                                - 27 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

Component A - Higher Education Innovation Fund
                                            Research group ZIRCON
                                               http/ www.zircon.ru
                                 117420 Moscow, Profsoyusnaya 57, office 814
                                     tel/fax 332 02 97, e-mail: info@zircon.ru

 Effectiveness assessment of the social-economic education reforming in high educational institutions
                                                     of Russia
                                     Analytical report on the research results
                                 Summary of research approaches and findings

                                                  Moscow 2004
1.         INTRODUCTION
1.1.       Problem definition

At present the Government of the Russian Federation and the International Bank of Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) carry out the Education Innovation Project (EIP) in the field of educational
development (IP). The National Training Foundation is responsible for financing and organizational issues.

The basic goal of the program "Improvement of Social-Economic Subjects (SES) teaching at High
Educational Institutions (HEI) of Russia" is to improve the quality in the SES teaching within the selected
on the competitive basis HEI and to provide grounds for comparison with education in the fields of
economics, politology and sociology in the leading world universities. The priority is given to the projects
suggesting:
     (i) substantial renewal of the study process organization, directed at its democratization, activization
     of autonomous student work, intensification of academic mobility, rationalization of evaluation system;
     (ii) active involvement of modern teaching methods and forms and achievements evaluation;
     (iii) Use of possibilities to involve new information technologies in the study process including
     development of study materials in electronic form.

During the realization of the EIP the system of control indicators monitoring has not been created which
would enable to identify easily the complex change which occurred after 5 years of practical SES teaching
(in the country as a whole, and in the HEI ­ participants of the Project), which actually represents the most
important result of the project realization. Due to this fact in order to evaluate the indirect effect of the EIP
in the part of its impact on the reformation of the social-economic education in Russia as a whole it is
necessary to conduct a special post-project sociological research. The results of the research conducted at
the Russian HEIs allow from one hand to evaluate the real state of social-economic education in Russia, its
general development trends, and on the other ­ to present the objective evaluation of the effectiveness of the
EIP.

1.2. Goal and tasks of the research

The goal of the present research is to evaluate the effectiveness of the EIP realization I the field of the
program "Improvement of Social-Economic Subjects (SES) teaching at High Educational Institutions
(HEI) of Russia".
In order to achieve the goal the following tasks had to be solved:
1. Development of post-project methodology for evaluation of the program realization effectiveness.


                                                       - 28 -

2. Measurement of a realization degree for the main program goals in the HEIs -participants.
3. Structuring of integral indicators for the evaluation of the realization degree for the Project goals and
    for the basic goals of the SES teaching improvement.
4. Comparison of realization degree for the Project goals in two HEI groups ­ basic and control.
5. Comparison of realization degree of SES teaching improvement and the project goals within the HEI
    group ­ the program participants.

1.3. Object and subject of research. Principles for selection structuring

The research object is represented by the lecturers and administration of the Russian HEIs which have a
considerable share of social-economic subjects within their complex of educational programs, such as
economics, sociology, and politology. The object is divided into two segments:
    a) staff of the Heis participating in the Project (basic group, group 1);
    b) Staff of the HEIs not participating in the project (control group, group 2).

The subject of the research is represented by the conceptions (opinions, assessments) of the lecturers and
administrators of the HEIs concerning the basic changes and achievements in the field of SES teaching
which took place in Russia during last 5 years (the period of the EIP realization). The mentioned
conceptions are divided into two categories:
    a) conceptions on the basic changes and achievements according to the directions immediately
        concerning the goal directions of the EIP (specific goals of the EIP, the goals of "A" group);
    b) conceptions on the basic changes and achievements according to the directions not concerning the
        goal directions of the EIP project but having importance for the reformation of the SES teaching in
        Russia (general goals of the educational reform, the goals of the "B" group).

1.4. Selection structure

The state HEIs of the following cities took part in the opinion poll: Moscow, Barnaul, Vladivostock,
Volgograd, Voronez, Ekaterinburg, Irkutsk, Niznij Novgorod, Novosibirsk, Perm, Saint-Petersburg,
Tomsk, Chelyabinsk. In each region the HEIs were selected from those which participated in the EIP
(basic) and the equal number of the similar HEIs, which did not participate in the EIP.

Table 1.1. Distribution of the selection number over the territory
            City                       Number of HEIs           Number of respondents
1           Moscow                     13                       93
2           S.Petersburg               4                        28
3           Barnaul                    2                        14
4           Vladivostock               2                        15
5           Volgograd                  3                        14
6           Voronez                    2                        14
7           Ekaterinburg               2                        15
8           Irkutsk                    2                        14
9           Niznij Novgorod            4                        30
10          Novosibirsk                5                        28
11          Perm                       3                        14
12          Tomsk                      2                        14
13          Chelyabinsk                2                        14
            Total                      47                       307




                                                       - 29 -

In each HEI the random choice was made from the lecturers of faculties of economics, sociology and
politology for the basic group 8 persons in each HEI and for the control group 5-6 persons. In the
HEIs-participants of the EIP group (basic group) 167 persons were questioned from 21 HEI; in the control
HEIs group 140 persons from 26 HEIs. Totally ­ 307 respondents. In Moscow 93 persons; in the regions ­
214 persons.

1.5. Research methodology

The research was conducted in the form of quasi-expert poll of lecturers and administrators of the Russian
HEIs (by means of self-filling of the questionnaire) within the framework of which the conceptions of the
respondents were fixed concerning the degree of improvement of the SES teaching in their respective HEI.
The instrument of the poll (questionnaire) consists of 5 basic blocks which contain evaluation statements
concerning:
    1. Realization of basic and specific reform goals in the field of social-economic subject teaching at
         their HEI;
    2. Depth and directions of changes in the field of social-economic subject teaching at their HEI;
    3. The impact of basic factors (conditions) on the mentioned changes;
    4. Importance of different changes for the improvement of the quality of social-economic educational
         as a while;
    5. Expectations for new positive changes in the field of social-economic subjects teaching in the
         coming 3-5 years.

Respondents are requested to express their opinion on each of the statements (5-point assessment).
The conceptions of the respondents on the degree of realization of the goals are fixed in the form of
assessment of agreement / disagreement with the statements concerning the changes in the SES teaching at
their HEI during last 5 years. The statements represent the expressions of the realization degree for two
groups of goals:
    a) Specific goals of the EIP formulated in the EIP program "Improvement of Social-Economic
         Subjects (SES) teaching at High Educational Institutions (HEI) of Russia" (goal group "A");
    b) General goals of the educational reform in the field of SES teaching (goal group "B").

In the questionnaire all the goals were grouped according to the meaning so that a respondent did not know
to which group of goals (EIP goals or general goals) the statements refer. The following subject groups are
identified:
    1. Curricula and program.
    2. Curricula and programs
    3. Teaching methods
    4. Research work
    5. Study visits, conferences, international cooperation
    6. Informational technologies
    7. Bibliography and publications

As a result of the poll the massive of individual conceptions was received concerning the basic changes in
the SES teaching at the involved HEIs. For each block of goals for each respondent an integral assessment
of the "goal realization degree" is structured in tow ways:

1.       Average assessment according to the block of goals.
2.       The first major component for the model of factor analysis (without rotation) according to the goal


                                                    - 30 -

block.

1.6. Basic hypothesis

In order to make a correct conclusion about the presence (or absence) of the EIP effectiveness it is
necessary to prove or disapprove the following working hypothesis of the research.
1.        There exists a statistically significant difference in the integral evaluation of the realization degree
of the complex "A" goals (specific) between the two groups of respondents: lecturers of the
HEIs-participants of the EIP and lecturers of the control HEIs group. This means that the program EIP had
an impact on the HEIs-participants.
2.        There exists a statistically significant difference in the integral evaluation of the realization degree
of the complexes "A" and "B" goals (specific and general) in the selection of respondents ­ lecturers of the
HEIs-participants of the EIP. This means that the EIP program had an impact first of all in such directions
(goals) which were marked as priority directions.

2.0 Conclusions. Basic Outcomes.

1.        The poll results showed that both groups of the respondents possess similar characteristics. Small
differences are observed in the filed of age, scientific degree and income (respondent lecturers from the
control group of the HEIs are somewhat older; they have the Doctor degrees more often but at the same
time lower family income). Social-demographic parameters of the selected sets of lecturers in two groups of
the HEIs should be close enough to minimalize the impact of social-demographic parameters of respondents
on the results of their assessments of changes in the field of the SES teaching.

2.        Lecturers from both groups assessed very highly their Chairs activities in improvement of the SES
teaching. Advantages of the HEIs participating in the EIP program are observed in such spheres as training
abroad, participation in scientific projects, preparation of study materials for the study courses, inclusion of
the INTERNET resources into the recommended to students materials, number of new and reformed
courses and programs, grant-supported work of lecturers.

3.        In the evaluation of the impact of different conditions on the improvement of the professional
mastership of lecturers and the impact of methods of teaching on the quality of social-economic education
two groups of the HEIs differ very little; the significant differences are observed only in respect of the
impact of reduction of class-room hours; this fact is considered as positive in the basic group of the HEIs.
Among other factors the availability in the HEI of scientific literature, access to the INTERNET and
equipment as well as the development of new courses and publication of study materials are considered to
be a little more important.

4.        It turned out that the changes which occurred in the sphere of curricula and programs are similar
for both groups of the HEIs ­ not in a single direction there were any significant differences found. The
most outstanding changes according to the assessment of all respondents happened in the field of
reformation and creation of new study courses and programs as well as accreditation of the Master
programs. Nevertheless in a whole the average assessment of the intensity of changes in the filed of
curricula and programs is more important for the group of the HEIs participating in the EIP.

5.        The most outstanding changes in the methods of teaching according to the respondent opinion from
both groups of the HEIs happened in the sphere of implementation of modern educational technologies, use
of foreign scientist's concepts, strengthening of the role of base-line study and also of the personal
empirical analysis of students while writing diploma papers. In the group of the HEIs participating in the


                                                        - 31 -

EIP more prominent changes happened in such directions as bringing the teaching standards close to the
world level, orientation of education on students' acquisition of practical skills as well as on the
implementation of original scientific texts.

6.        The lecturers from both group of the HEIs assume that in the sphere of scientific work the positive
changes express themselves in the fact that student conferences became a part of the study process and
also that the contests started to be held for the best scientific work of students. Differences between the
groups of the HEIs as the poll showed in the sphere of scientific activity were much greater than 5 years
ago. During these years in the group of the HEIs participating in the EIP most changes oriented the study
process on combining study and scientific activity of students and also on the origin of the contests for the
research work of lecturers.

7.       AS to the foreign links, training and conferences, in this sphere the changes were assessed by
lecturers from all the HEIs as less significant as compared to study-methodological and scientific work. At
the same time along this direction the differences are quite significant in achievement of two groups of the
HEIs. In the group of the HEIs participating in the EIP the lecturers started to go to training courses and
conferences, the academic mobility of student increased, foreign specialists were invited to deliver lectures,
and lecturers improved their skills in English.

8.       AS the expert lecturers mentioned the strongest changes in the sphere of informational technologies
in all the HEIs concerned the improvement of technical provision, access to the INTERNET, creation of
local computer network and electronic catalogue for the library. In the first two directions the HEIs
participating in the EIP were much stronger as well as for the whole set of goals for the "informational
technologies".

9.       Preparation and publication of study materials purchase of books for libraries, subscription to the
Russian scientific magazines ­ these positions were assessed by lecturers from both groups of the HEIs as
the areas of considerable changes. At the same time the advantages of the group of the HEIs participating
in the EIP, were fixed in realization by the staff members of translations and publication of foreign
textbooks and scientific materials as well as along the whole set of goals connected with libraries and
publications.

10.      The poll showed that the opinions of the lecturers about the dynamics in the field of improvement
of the SES teaching practically do not depend on the social-demographic parameters, on the region where
the HEI is situated personal involvement of respondents in the EIP program. It allows to state that the
assessments given by lecturers could be really considered as expert that is: reflecting the real picture of
changes in the SES teaching.

11.      Lecturers from the group of the HEIs participating in the EIP, are inclined to assess the changes in
the SES teaching as stronger as compared to the lecturers from the control group. All respondents attribute
the leading role to the personal initiative of lecturers and initiatives of the HEI (faculty) administration and
much less ­ to the corporative culture of the HEI. The possibilities offered by the EIP program and also the
work of lecturers supported by individual grants are much higher assessed by the HEI lecturers
participating in the program.

12.      Among the expected further changes respondents consider as most probable the development of
new study courses and programs, publication of study programs and materials, implementation of modern
technologies and methods of teaching, growth of libraries provision with textbooks and scientific literature;
as least probable ­ improvement of the student achievements assessment system and broadening of


                                                       - 32 -

academic mobility of lecturers. Respondents from both groups of the HEIs agree on these points.

13.      There is a significant difference between the groups of the HEIs in the degree of realization of both
the EIP goals and the common goals; in the group of the HEIs participating in the EIP program
"improvement of the SES teaching the expert evaluation of the achievements is higher. This allows
concluding that the program EIP in the group of the HEIs under investigation really had an impact. In this
group of the HEIs the realization of the EIP goals is much higher as compared to the common goals, that is:
the EIP program had impact in the first place on those directions which had been declared as the priority
ones for the program.

14.      As a result of the assessment of the regressive analysis models it was clarified that there is a
significant impact of variable "involvement of the HEI in the EIP program" on the lecturer's opinion about
the degree of realization of the EIP goals: for the HEIs participating in the program this assessment is
higher. The evaluations of the regressive models also showed that the impact of the variable "involvement
of the HEI if the EIP program" on the respondent opinion about the degree of realization of common goals
is lacking. This is a proof of the fact that the program "improvement of the SES teaching (EIP)" had a
clearly directed impact in the direction of the declared goals.

Component B - School Textbook Reform Component

SURVEY OF BENEFICIARIES

Assay of the Opinions of the Participants in the Conference "Textbook Market Development in the

Russian Federation and the Role of the Education Innovation Project in This Process" (November

18-19, 2004) relating Implementation of the "Textbook Development" Component Programs

The survey was conducted during a final conference which was attended by 113 specialists and participants
of the Russian textbook development market. The following groups of participants took part in the survey:

·        Specialists from the Federal Educational Administrations (the MOES and the Federal Agency for
Education) ­ 5 persons
·        Representatives from the Russian publishers
("Logos","Astrel","Titul","Mart","Ventana-Graph","Prosveshenye","Drofa", etc.) ­ 15 persons
·        Teacher re-training institutions ­ 7 persons
·        Secondary school teachers ­ 15 persons
·        Scientists, scholars, specialists from RAE and RAS ­ 15 persons
·        Textbook authors ­ 13 persons
·        Textbook Authors ­ 13 persons
·        Higher Education Specialists ­ 5 persons
·        E-learning materials developers ­ 13 persons
·        Regional Data Canters representatives ­ 13 persons

A special questionnaire was drafted in order to collect opinions on the Component B implementation key
issues, conclusions and recommendations contained in the NTF Analytical Report "Development of the
Textbook Market in Russia and the EIP role in this process". The questions were structured into three
blocks in order to find out information on a number of aspects of Component B: a) impact on textbook; b)
market regulation; c) new generation textbook development; d) the success of the textbook evaluation
model developed within the project; e) and the new model of textbook promotion. The questionnaire is
enclosed in Annex 1.



                                                      - 33 -

In relation to the issues of textbook market regulation the following opinions were gained and processed.:

1.       Most of the respondents (82) expressed an opinion that a civilized textbook market has taken shape
in the Russian Federation since the time when the EIP became effective. The current market offers quality
textbooks at fairly low prices.

2.       Answering the question concerning the EIP role in textbook market development, ninety five of the
participants stressed that the Education Innovation Project played an important part in textbook market
formation. Fifty two respondents indicated that the EIP laid the foundations of a practically reproducible
mechanism of interaction between federal education authorities, publishers, and the Federal Expert
Council. Market instruments and mechanisms were developed and put into operation to adjust textbook
making, publishing and distribution to the real interests of the consumers: general schools, teachers, and
students and their families. Forty four respondents acknowledged that the NTF Textbook Competition
demonstrated the possibility of developing education policy by setting clear-cut and stable criteria for
textbook evaluation. An effective model of textbook design and publication was developed in the course of
the Competition, and its applicability in the publisher's work with authors was proved in practice
(twenty-five respondents). The Competition facilitated the creation of a textbook promotion mechanism
adequate to the present-day conditions and demonstrated the potentials for creating new-generation
textbooks that meet current and long-term objectives of general education (sixty respondents).

3.       Answering the question concerning the EIP role in demonopolizing the textbook market, many
respondents (56) stressed that the NTF projects contributed to the entry of a number of medium and small
textbook publishers to the textbook market. These publishers are now firmly established (AST-Press,
BINOM, Laboratoriya Znanii, Ventana-Graf, Vita-Press, Fedorov corporation, St. Petersburg Drofa).

4.       The majority of the participants (76) agreed with the recommendations proposed in the Analytical
Report, in particular, with the positing of the key role of the State in building a legal and institutional base
for the formation and maintenance of a self-regulated textbook market. In the opinion of publishers (7),
textbook authors (9), and teachers (12) it is imperative for the State to secure sustainable "rules of the
game". In this case the market itself will keep only those publishers that offer quality textbooks at
affordable prices to the consumers. Some publishers (2 ) and education administrators (5) proposed to
further reduce the role of the State in textbook market regulation and leave two major tasks to the sphere of
State regulation: development of education standards and study programs, and development of requirements
to school graduates (organization of national examination). With this approach, the responsibility for
textbook provision and the textbook content will rest with the publishers, while the teachers will be
responsible for textbook selection and the organization of studies.

5.       As to the issues of the federal list of textbooks, almost all conference participants (106) agreed that
it is necessary to preserve the system of the diversified textbooks provision. Therefore they spoke
univocally against the idea of cutting the Federal List of textbooks which had been suggested for discussion
in the professional community. At the same time some publishers (5) proposed to abandon the Federal List
on the grounds that a full-fledged market could be formed only if teachers would be able to select any study
literature at their own discretion.

Issues concerning the development of "new-generation" textbook development and evaluation
attracted the greatest attention of the conference participants. The breadth of the respondents' answers can
be structured in the following way:

1.       Most of the participants (109) stressed that due to the Competition the study literature for the


                                                      - 34 -

general school in Russia acquired the features of an integral system: continuous subject-and-methodological
lines in school disciplines and complete textbook sets have been formed. Forty-nine of the respondents
noted that these attainments testify to the emergence of a system of diversified textbooks provision in
Russia. Thirty of the respondents stated that the textbooks development model created within the
framework of the NTF Competition facilitated competence-based approaches to textbook content.

2.       Evaluating the success and failures of the Competition process, many respondents (65) noted that
the NTF Competition gave rise to a growth in the number of textbook authors by enlisting teachers and
methods specialists who had practical school teaching experience, including those from the regions, and
helped new authors to enter the textbook market. The Competition also proved the advantages of a project
model of textbook making. Fifty-seven respondents believe that the model encouraged publishers to initiate
the development of new textbooks. This strategy is aimed at making all publishers' services work for the
common idea to achieve a high quality new product.

3.       The majority of the participants (95) think that the projects to improve the training of authors
implemented within the Program B4 "Training" played an important role in this process. The new authors
trained under the EIP program continue to cooperate successfully with the leading textbook publishers.

4.       Fifty-seven respondents stressed that a multi-level and multi-position model of textbook evaluation
was created and tested within the frame of the NTF Competition. The model helped to assess textbook
manuscripts objectively and to create new textbooks using the criteria accepted by the professional
community. The majority of the respondents (87) noted the advantage of this model compared with the
textbook evaluation methods being used by the Federal Expert Council. Those methods were; a) the
multi-stage textbook examination; and b) the use of transparent criteria, which resulted in the creation of
really innovatory textbooks within the frame of the Competition.

5.       Most of professional community representatives participating in the conference (98) agreed with
the recommendations contained in the Analytical Report "Textbook Market Development in the Russian
Federation and the Role of the Education Innovation Project in This Process". Forty-five found particularly
important the recommendations dealing with the introduction of the "project" model of textbook
development, the use of a lucid system of textbook evaluation criteria (21), and the FEC unreadiness to
accept innovatory textbooks (32). However there was not consensus on all the recommendations of this
report. Textbook authors (9) believe that the challenges facing Russian education can be met adequately
only by creating new-generation textbooks , while some publishers (3) do not think that the present
textbooks should be changed and therefore do not second the idea of establishing the Center for
New-Generation Textbooks. Also, several publishers do not fully comprehend the problem of textbook
author training (6) and see the "project" model somewhat narrowly. Textbook authors (7) raised the
question of advance financing of textbook making. In their opinion it is impossible to create a modern
textbook without it. Many responding publishers (8), on the contrary, prefer to pay fees after the ready for
the press preparation of manuscripts.

6.       And finally, anxiety was voiced regarding the sustainability of some of the EIP accomplishments:

l Thirty respondents believed that differences in approaches to textbook evaluation followed by the NTF
    Competition experts and FEC (in particular, lack of clear criteria in the FEC expertise) may lead to a
    decrease in possibilities for creating really innovative new-generation textbooks. Many participants
    (45) considered that the new initiatives of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Russian
    Federation to delegate textbook evaluation to the Russian Academy of Education and the Russian
    Academy of Sciences as a negative step. They felt that in this case there should be clear-cut criteria


                                                     - 35 -

    understood by all, taking into account the new expertise gained by the FEC.
l The project model of textbook making within the frame of the Competition was related more with the
    activity of the NTF experts than with the publishers' activity. There is an opinion that eventually the
    model would not be introduced into practice (28 participants).
l As the new-generation textbook criteria were formulated closer to the EIP completion, they had not
    been used widely during the development of textbooks within the frame of the project (14 participants).

Evaluating the textbook promotion and use activities implemented within the EIP the respondents
shared the following opinions.

1.      Many of them (85) thought that the textbook promotion "models" that had been formed
spontaneously in Russia before the EIP could not be viewed as satisfactory. Some of them (45) agreed that
the textbooks purchased by regional education management bodies are not always those that the schools
need, while the functionaries' mediation between teachers and publishers is fraught with corruption. Others
(25) stressed that the seemingly market-governed version of textbook purchase directly by parents is far
from ideal in Russia: first, not many parents can afford them; second, old stereotypes turn them to
free-of-charge textbooks; third, most of the parents have no idea how to choose the right textbook for their
child.

2.      Many participants (65) pointed out the importance of the textbook promotion model developed in
the course of the Competition. Twenty-two respondents stressed that the new textbook promotion model
formed in the course of the Competition harmoniously combines the interests of all participants in the
process of textbook preparation and use. Thirty-nine respondents believe that with the introduction of the
new model teachers and methods specialists in all regions gained access to latest study and methods guides,
while publishers got interested in investing in teacher training. The current situation differs markedly from
the textbook promotion practiced in the period before the Competition.

3.      As to the relevance of the report recommendations concerning the real participation of teachers and
schools in textbook selection, many respondents (84) consider them vital and useful for the textbook market
development in Russia. The approach developed within the EIP will facilitate further textbook development
and the orientation of the textbook publishing industry toward the final consumer ­ the school. At the same
time the respondents' opinions about concrete mechanisms of this approach differed. Some of them (12)
pointed out that teachers were not prepared to select schoolbooks adequate to the present-day situation, and
needed aid from methods specialists. Others (27) emphasized that without acquiring information culture,
which would make it possible for teachers to select proper schoolbooks, it was impossible to eradicate
corruption and create really diversified education meeting the modern-day goals of education development
in Russia.




                                                     - 36 -

                                               Appendix 1

Would you please answer the below questions concerning the EIP "Textbook Development" Component
outcomes and Recommendations of the Analytical Report "Development of Textbook Market in Russia
and the EIP Role in this Process".

Block 1: Issues of Textbook Market Regulation

1. What is the current state of the textbook market in Russia?
2. How can you evaluate the EIP role in developing the textbook market in Russia?
3. Have the Textbook Competition outcomes influenced demonopolization of the publishers market? Has
   the EIP impact resulted in emerging new textbook publishers in the market?
4. Do you agree to the provisions of the Analytical Report concerning the role of the state in textbook
   market regulation?
5. Do you support the idea of the federal textbook list limiting? What can be the result of such action?



Block 2: New-Generation Textbook Development and Expert Evaluation

1. Do you share the opinion that the "project" model of textbook development is an effective tool in
   solving the problem of new generation textbooks production?
2. What in your opinion are the successes and failures of the approach proposed by the EIP?
3. How do you evaluate the models of authors' training initiated by the EIP?
4. What do you think about the model of textbooks evaluation developed and tested within the
   Competition?
5. Do you agree to the provisions of the Analytical Report relating to dissemination of the Competition
   results?
6. After the EIP completion, who could act as the initiator of new-generation textbook creation,
   publication, and promotion? Do you find it advisable to establish a Federal Center for New-Generation
   Textbooks?



Block 3: Textbook Promotion and Use

1. What is you opinion relating to the spontaneous textbooks promotion models which occur in the
   Russian market?
2. Do you agree to the textbook promotion model developed within the Competition?
3. What are the advantages of the proposed model?
4. Do you agree to the provisions of the Analytical Report relating to the issues of textbooks selection and
   use?




                                                 - 37 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

                       Education Improvement Project - ICR stakeholder workshop

A workshop to discuss the outcomes of the above project was held at the World Bank office in Moscow on
February 17, 2005. Participation included about 15 representatives from the Ministry of Education and
Science, Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, Ministry of Finance, the Government Apparat,
National Training Foundation, higher education institutions, as well as experts working in the field of
textbook publishing.

The project had achieved output goals and therefore the Bank team presented key questions in the
evaluation of project outcomes and impact. One major question discussed was that of sustainability. It
was agreed that one major factor in the success of the EIP was that it was supported by the Ministry of
Education (MoE).

With regard to activities on higher education funded under the project, participants considered that the
project implementation agencies (consultants) enjoyed fair treatment. The EIP independent expert
committees consisted of reputable people, respected in their fields of competence. The quality of evaluation
and review they provided is very high, because they are not just the ministry's appointees but rather people
elected from within the professional community.

One question raised was that activities on higher education were only small pilots, and many of the issues
were more systemic. For example, if only one unit out of an entire education facility was involved in a
reform process (e.g., university department), while others remain as they were, it is likely to result in
organization-wide conflicts. Therefore it is necessary to change the whole structure at once, and it takes
longer to pilot a series of changes. An example of this was in Tomsk where the library could not be
available for students of economics during certain hours when it was not open for others. The problem in
question was outside the project design.

A question was asked as to how many of the approximately sixty universities participating in the project
did really move to the dual degree education system (bachelor - master).      No university made that move as
an entire institution. Again, this was not intended under the project design. Only individual programs
made this transition. About thirty higher education institutions participated in the dual degree programs.
The project put the incentives in place to encourage such a transition through support of already existing
initiatives. Since the MoE at that time did not give a clear policy message in favor of the dual degree
approach the activity was not implemented on a greater scale. The Bank, the NTF, and MoE perhaps did
not provide sufficient attention to this long term objective, while if they did, a lot more could have been
done.

With regard to improving the quality of selected courses, the project had the objective changing the content
of education and revitalizing programs in economics and the other social sciences Those within institutions
of Higher Education who wanted to implement this objective on a wider scale, did succeed in it, and
implemented the transition. However it must be remembered that the transition to the dual degree was not
the initial project objective when there was no Bologna process in place. This objective emerged at a later
stage as a result of a natural development. It was agreed that the initial objective of the project was not a
broad one, and that as the education system began to change, and the dual degree system became more
recognized, the discussion changed appropriately. It is important to coordinate and synchronize changes
within the university system with the MoE's position.
It was noted that the EIP inspired people from different departments at the same institution to compete.



                                                     - 38 -

This was an important spin-off effect. Departments who enjoyed project support still felt competition
from others who were trying to improve their work and look for other sources to fund their development. In
addition, on a practical note, the tender procedures developed under the project are supported by the
Ministry of Education and Science (MOES) and will continue to be used. It is important not to lose the
achieved results ­ communities / networks of experts and communities of universities. MOES should and
will help.

Universities where staff retraining took place were those that did the best in terms of longer term outcomes.
However all the remaining universities made very good progress as compared to their initial situation. The
project scope and the scale of its effects proved to be bigger than originally planned and mostly due to the
involvement of regional higher education institutions. The staff benefited greatly from study tours and
internships.

In addition the HEIs and MOES should not stop their efforts to learn from the project activities now that
funding has stopped, they should rather focus and head for outcomes. The Bank projects are catalysts of
further systemic developments. The mid-term program of the Ministry of Education and Science should
incorporate the project experiences.

The discussion then moved to other aspects of the project. One question related to efforts to improve
transparency in the textbook approval process, and whether or not these would survive (regional centers,
approval committee structure and evaluation criteria). Would the project have benefited if some of the
activities had been stopped earlier (funding for regional resource centers)? It was mentioned that the
independent accreditation centers are important and will continue to receive support from the MOES.
However the timing of their receipt of federal funds was crucial.

A comment from the Ministry of Education noted that sustainability should not be viewed as a steady
condition, but rather as a permanent process of sustainable development. The starting point for making
further progress has already been raised. Procedures for textbook selection and approval have been
developed and we should continue this positive development being based on the evaluation mechanism as
well. Preparedness for reforms is manifested in the motto: "remove whatever is impeding the progress",
rather than a demand "give us something to help with the reform". Participants of the reform process
should request the MOES remove the barriers. It is out of new experiences that productive development
can arise. Such initiatives are very welcome and the MOES should only encourage new developments.

It was decided that by February 28 the Experts' Center or NTF would submit a paper with their proposals
on how to ensure sustainability of the EIP, including proposals on improvement of the standard. In
addition the MOES programs for 2005 and 2006 will use the EIP experiences, capacity developed and
enhance its achievements.




                                                     - 39 -

Additional Annex 10. Comments from the Borrower




                                       - 40 -

Official translation




Mrs. Kristalina Georgieva                                  June 9, 2005
Country Director for Russia                          ECCU1-N-2005-00321
Resident Representative in Russia
World Bank

On concurrence with the evaluation of project results


Dear Mrs. Georgieva,

This is to confirm the receipt of the draft Implementation Completion Report on Education
Innovation Project that initiated cooperation between the Russian Federation and the World Bank
in the field of education.

The Ministry of Education and Science of the Russian Federation has reviewed the draft Report
and informs you that it agrees with the Bank's proposal to positively evaluate the results of the
project.


                                         Sincerely yours,

                                         A.G. Svinarenko
                                         Deputy Minister




                                               - 41 -

- 42 -

