Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
LOAN NUMBER 4183 RU
Loan Agreement
(Education Innovation Project)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 9, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4183 RU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 9, 1997, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project, and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification of Section 6.03 set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of 
the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period 
of thirty days, or 
(b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, 
Page  2
that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan,  that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or the execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines 
that 
the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or 
(f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by 
notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the 
giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
 “Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of 
the proceeds of the Loan to a Higher Education Institution for a Sub-Project under 
Part A of the Project; 
(b)
“Higher Education Institution” means any institution of higher education 
of the Borrower selected under Part A of the Project in accordance with procedures set 
forth in the Operational Manual; 
(c)
“MGPE” means the Ministry of General and Professional Education of the 
Borrower; 
(d)
“NTF” means the National Training Foundation, established pursuant to the 
Decree of the Government of the Russian Federation of August 12, 1994, N 1273-P and 
registered with the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice on September 29, 1994, Certificate 
No. UP 8; 
(e)
“NTF Project Coordination Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
between the Borrower and NTF in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(f)
“Operational Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, 
containing, inter alia, eligibility criteria and appraisal, approval and supervision 
rules and procedures for Sub-Loans and gGrants to Higher Education Institutions 
selected under Part A of the Project, grants to authors and publishers under Part B 
(2) (b) of the Project and Sub-Loan to the Region under Part C of the Project, as well 
as other administrative rules to be followed by NTF, as the same may be amended from 
time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower;
(g)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated March 26, 
1997 and April 26, 1997 between the Borrower and the Bank; 
(h)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of 
this Agreement; 
(i)
“Region” means any of the Regions constituted underof the Russian 
Federation to whom the Borrower has made or proposes to make a Sub-Loan under Part C 
of the Project; 
(j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(k)
“Sub-Loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out 
Page  3
of the proceeds of the Loan to a Region under Part C of the Project, or to a Higher 
Education Institution for a Sub-Project under Part A of the Project; 
(l)
“Sub-Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and a Region onr a Higher Education Institution referred to in Section 3.01 
(e) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Sub-Loan Agreement; and
(m)
“Sub-Project” means a project to be carried out by a Higher Education 
Institution under Part A of the Project, utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-Loan or a 
Grant.
ARTICLE II
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
seventy-one million Dollars ($71,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services; and (ii) amounts paid (or if the Bank 
shall so agree, to be paid) by the serviceBorrower for grants to authors and 
publishers under Part B.2 (b) of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the 
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after 
the 
initial period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the 
London Interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
single 
currency for value the first day of such Interest 
Period (or, in the 
Page  4
case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, 
below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans 
or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable June 15 and December 
15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
For the purposes of overall Project coordination, the Borrower shall 
enter into an agreement with NTF on such terms as shall be acceptable to the Bank 
which shall include terms specifying the responsibilities of NTF in respect of 
coordination of Project activities, accounting, preparation of requests for 
withdrawals from the Loan Account, procurement and administrative support.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower: (i) shall relend out of the proceeds of the Loan amounts 
allocated from time to time under Category (56) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to Regions under Sub-Loan Agreements to be entered 
into between the Borrower and each of the Regions under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including, without limitations, the terms and conditions 
specified in Schedule 7 to this Agreement; (ii) make available the proceeds of the 
Loan amounts allocated from time to time under Categories (1) and (2, (2) and (3) of 
the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to the Higher 
Education Institutions under financial arrangements which shall include Sub-Loans and 
gGrants in accordance with paragraph 43 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (iii) 
make available the proceeds of the Loan amounts allocated from time to time under 
Category (45) (c) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement as grants to authors and publishers in accordance with the procedures  set 
Page  5
forth in the Operational Manual. 
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-Loan Agreements in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive the Sub-Loan Agreements or any provision 
thereof. Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause NTF to maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause NTF to: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures in respect of the Project with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
Page  6
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Condition, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the Operational Manual, or any provision thereof, shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and 
adversely affect the ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project;
(b)
NTF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the NTF 
Project Coordination Agreement;
(c)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of NTF or for the suspension of its 
operation.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) andthe event specified in 
Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty-days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraphany of the events specified in paragraphs 
(a) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the Operational Manual has been adopted by NTF; and 
(b)
the NTF Project Coordination Agreement has been duly executed by the 
Borrower and NTF; 
(c)
the Borrower shall have opened the Project Account in a commercial bank 
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank with an initial deposit in local 
currency equivalent to [$10,000]. 
Section 6.02.  The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the NTF Project Coordination 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NTF and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower and NTF in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower or the Deputy Minister of 
Finance responsible for international economic affairs is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  7
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance 
Ylyinka Street 9
103097 Moscow
Russian Federation
Telex:
112008
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By /s/ Yuli Vorontsov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Johannes Linn
Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
   Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
  to be Financed
(1)
Goods for
411,000,000
   100% of foreign
Part A of the
   expenditures, 100%
Page  8
Project
   of local expenditures
   (ex-factory cost)
   and 70% of local
   expenditures for
   other items 
   procured locally
(2)
Works for Part A
  1,600,000
   70%
of the Project
(3)
Services for 
Part A of the
Project
(a)
Consultants
 53,000,000
   100%
(b)
Seminars, 
    900,000
   100% of foreign
study tours and
   expenditures and
fellowships
   35% of local
   expenditures
(4)
Goods for 
  5,500,000
   100% of foreign
Part B of the
   expenditures, 100%
Project
   of local expenditures
   (ex-factory cost) and
   70% of local 
   expenditures for 
   other items procured
   locally
(5)
Services for
Part B of the
Project
(a)
Consultants
  5,400,000
   100%
(b)
Seminars, 
 51,000,000
          100% of foreign
workshops study
   expenditures and
tours and 
   38% of local
fellowships
   expenditures
(c)
Grants to        800,000
   100% of amounts 
authors and 
   disbursed
publishers under
Part B (2) (b) 
of the Project
(6)
Goods for
  8,000,000
   100% of foreign
Part C of the
   expenditures, 100%
Project
   of local expenditures
   (ex-factory cost) and
   70% of local 
   expenditures for
   other items procured
   locally
(7)
Incremental
  6,800,000
   100%
operating costs
(8)
Refunding of 
  1,000,000
   Amounts due
Project Preparation
   pursuant to
Advance
   Section 2.02 (c) of
   this Agreement
       __________
TOTAL
              71,000,000
       ==========
Page  9
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means expenditures on account of 
the Project incurred by NTF for:  
(i)
staff salaries and allowances (provided however, that 
government officials civil service officials of the 
Borrower may be considered NTF staff for this purpose only 
if relieved 
of their governmental responsibilities and 
assigned to NTF on a full 
time  basis);  
(ii)
office rent, NTF’s staff salaries and allowances;  
(iii)
office rent, renovation/maintenance, transport, utilities 
and telecommunications; and 
(iv)
office equipment and consumable supplies. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
to the Borrower withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures:
(i)
for goods and works under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent;  
(ii)
for individual consultants under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent;
(iii)
for individual consulting firms under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent;
(iv)
for seminars, workshops, fellowships and study tours 
costing less than $1025,000 equivalent; and
(v)
for incremental operating costs. 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to:  (a) improve, in selected Higher Education 
Institutions, the quality of social science education and encourage better governance 
systems and efficiency in the use of resources; and (b) improve the quality and 
availability of school textbooks as a major contribution to educational reform.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Higher Education Innovation Fund
The establishment of a higher education innovation fund to provide Sub-Loans and 
Grants to Higher Education Institutions selected in accordance with the criteria and 
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual to finance works, technical assistance, 
training and equipment required for the carrying out of Sub-Projects in the following 
areas: (i) improvements in the teaching of social sciences; (ii) institutional 
Page  10
development; and (iii) structural reform.
Part B:
School Textbook Reform
1.
Provision of works, technical assistance, training and goods, to both the MGPE 
and regional educational administrations to: 
(a)
establish a valid set of federal education standards; and 
(b)
evaluate and validate textbooks and other educational materials through 
structural, managerial and technical reform of the federal expert council of the 
Borrower. 
2.
(a)
Provision of technical assistance and training to analyze textbooks and 
educational literature recommended by MGPE for use in schools; and 
(b)
provide grants to authors and publishers for the purpose of developing 
new textbooks.
3.
Provision of works, technical assistance, training and goods to provide: 
(a)
a single database of all relevant educational books in print for the 
Russian school system and the provision of an annually updated catalog of educational 
materials in traditional and electronic formats; and 
(b)
the design and installation of a screen based information delivery 
service, initially for textbooks and educational materials, covering the entire 
territory of the Borrower at least to the level of each education department of the 
Borrower’s Regions. 
4.
Provision of training programs for regional and local education administrators 
in new market-led textbook ordering and information systems.
Part C:
Pilot Textbook Procurement Fund
The Establishment and operation of a fund to provide Sub-Loans to selected 
Regions to obtain textbooks in a manner which would contribute towards: (a) overcoming 
barriers to entry by assuring payments to publishers and by structuring payments in a 
manner that addresses working capital requirements; (b) more competitive selection of 
textbooks and the eventual demonopolization of the textbook publishing industry; (c) 
speeding up the development and selection of new, more appropriate texts for secondary 
schools; and (d) the creation of a sustainable system of funding for textbook supply 
for the secondary education system.
********
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each December 15, 2002
through December 15, 2013
      2,960,000
On June 15, 2014
      2,920,000
Page  11
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid,  except 
as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 2.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to be 
procured in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding 
Goods estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3.0 million 
equivalent, which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3.2 million equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
3.
International or National Shopping 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
Page  12
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1.0 million equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with 
existing equipment [and textbooks] and that are of a proprietary nature and costing 
$6.0 million equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines. 
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, and not to 
exceed 2.3 million in the aggregate, may be procured under lump sum, fixed price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotations for the required work, and who has the experience and 
resources to successfully complete the contract.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations or to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Parts B.1, C.1 and C.4 and C.1 of this Schedule, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first five contracts for goods awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Parts C.2, C.3 (a) and C.3 (b),, C.3 (b) and C.5 and all 
contracts for Part C.4 of this Schedule, the following procedures shall apply: (A) 
prior to the selection of any contractor for contracts to be awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Part C.5 or any supplier under shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; (B)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of 
the specifications and the draft contract; and (C) in addition, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Page  13
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators acceptable to the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about May 31, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
2.
The Borrower shall cause NTF to be maintained with staffing, functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain the Project Account referred to in Section 
6.01 (c) of this Agreement, and shall replenish said account promptly before each 
quarter with sufficient funds to enable the Borrower to meet its obligations under 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement; (ii) use said account for financing the Borrower’s 
contribution to Project expenditures; and (iii) ensure that sufficient annual 
allocations will be made with the Borrower’s budget for the Borrower’s counterpart 
contribution to the costs of the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan amounts allocated 
from time to time under Categories (1) and (2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to the Higher Education Institutions as Grants in 
accordance with paragraph 5 of this Schedule.
5.
With respect to the selection of Sub-Projects and the award of Sub-Loans and 
Grants to the Higher Education Institutions, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
follow procedures and criteria agreed with the Bank as set forth in the 
Operational Manual; and
Page  14
(b)
send to the Bank, for review, a list of all the proposals for 
Sub-Projects submitted to the Board of Directors of NTF as they become available. 
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) 
and (6, (6) and (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $3.0 
million to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $200,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $2.0 million.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
Page  15
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 7 
Part C of the Project
Part 1:
Principal Terms and Conditions of Sub-Loan Agreement
The following principal terms and conditions shall apply for purposes of the 
Sub-Loan Agreements entered into pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) (i) of the Loan 
Agreement:
Section A:
Terms 
1.
The principal amount of a Sub-Loan to a Region shall be denominated and be the 
equivalent in US Dollars (determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the value of the 
currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid on account of goods or services financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
Page  16
2.
The amount of the Sub-Loan shall not exceed $2 million representing the cost of 
the goods to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan. 
3.
[The Region shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Sub-Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate equivalent to {terms to be agreed at 
negotiations}]ten percent (10%).  The amount of the Sub-Loan shall be repaid by the 
Region over a term not to exceed eight (8) months, inclusive of a grace period of not 
more than four (4) months.
Section B:
Obligation to Carry Out Part C of Project Activities 
1.
The Region shall declare its commitment to the objectives of Part C of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out, with the Borrower’s assistance, the activities related to the Region as described 
in Part C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services or other 
resources required for its part of the Project. 
2.
The Region shall carry out its respective part of the Project in accordance with 
the  Project Implementation Schedule set forth in this Agreement. 
3.
The Beneficiary shall duly perform all its obligations under the Sub-Loan 
Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Region shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving this Agreement or any provision thereof.
4.
(a)
The Region shall, at the request of the Bank, through the NTF, exchange 
views with the Bank with regard to the progress of its respective part of Part C of 
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of this Sub-Loan.
(b)
The Region shall promptly inform the Borrower and the Bank through the 
NTF of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of 
its respective part of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or 
the performance by the Region of its obligations under the Sub-Loan Agreement.
Section C:
Financial Covenants 
1.
(a)
The Region shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices and operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of  its respective part of the Projectthe 
Sub-Loan.
(b)
The Region shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, through the NTF, as soon as available, 
but in any case not later than six (6) months after the end 
of each such year: (A) certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the report 
of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank, through the NTF, such other 
information concerning such records, accounts and financial 
statements and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
Section D:
Implementation Conditions
The Region  shall:
Page  17
(a)
shall establish and maintain a liaison person or persons with full 
authority of the Region to officially act on its behalf in carrying out all of its 
obligations under this Agreement; and e Sub-Loan Agreement.
(b)
advance to the NTF for the purposes of depositing into the Project 
Account opened by the NTF in a commercial bank, an initial amount equal to 
[US$_____________] in local currency to be used to cover the agreed local cost sharing 
and for funds for anticipated custom duties and taxes for its respective part of the 
Project.  The Project Account shall be replenished by the Beneficiary through the NTF, 
based on a schedule to be agreed annually with the NTF and the Bank in advance of 
anticipated disbursement.
Part II:
Principal Terms and Conditions of Sub-Loan 
1.
No expenditures for goods or services under the Sub-Loan shall be eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the Sub-Loan shall have been approved 
by the NTF and the Bank. 
2.
The selection of the Region of the Sub-Loan shall be in accordance with the 
agreed selection procedures as outlined in the Operation Manual of the NTF and 
presented to the Bank for its prior review.
3.
The NTF shall have the right to:
(a)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods and services, including works qualifying under the 
local cost sharing arrangements and included in itthe Region’s respective part of Part 
C of the Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(b)
obtain all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request relating 
to the foregoing, and to the administration, operation and financial condition of the 
Region and to the benefits to be derived from its respective part of Part C of the 
Project; and
(c)
suspend or terminate the right of the Region to the use of the proceeds 
of the Sub-Loan upon failure by such Region to perform its obligations under this 
Sub-Loan.
