Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 1997 1-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$200 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
GUANGXI HIGHWAY PROJECT
FEBRUARY 28, 2000
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 1999)
Currency Unit   =  RMB Yuan
RMB Yuan 1.00  =  US$0.12
US$1.00         =  RMB Yuan 8.26
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BDB             Bridge Data Bank
CAS        =    Country Assistance Strategy
CPMS      =    Chinese Pavement Management System
EA              Enviromnental Assessment
EAP        =    Environmental Action Plan
EIA       =    Environmental Impact Assessment
E & M           Electrical and Mechanical
EMDP      =    Ethnic Minority People's Development Plan
GCD        =    Guangxi Conmnunications Department
HGHAB           High Grade Highway Administration Bureau
HNIMP           Highway Network Improvement and Maintenance Program
IST        =    Institutional Strengthening and Training
LACI            Loan Administration Change Initiative
MOC        =    Ministry of Communications
MOF             Ministry of Finance
NTHS            National Trunk Highway System
PAD             Project Appraisal Document
PCD       =    Provincial Communications Department
PIC             Public informnation Center
PMO             Project Management Office
PQI        -    Pavement Quality Index
RAP             Resettlement Action Plan
RDB        =    Road Data Bank
SDPC      =    State Development and Planning Committee
SNH             Shuiren - Nanning Highway
VOC        =    Vehicle Operating Cost
Vice President:           Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:         Yukon Huang
Sector Director:          Jitendra N. Bajpai
Task Team Leader:         Supee Teravaninthom



CHINA
GUANGXI HIGHWAY PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ....................................................................2
1. Goals  .....................................................................2
2. Key performance indicators  .....................................................................2
B. Strategic Context ....................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals supported by the project ...........                                  2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy  .....................................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed and strategic choices  ...........................................................4
C. Project Description  Summary ....................................................................6
1. Project components ....................................................................6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..................                           ........................7
3. Benefits and target population ...................                        .................................................7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements  .................................................................8
D. Project Rationale .....................................................................9
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .........................                    ..........................9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .............                                   9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design  .......................................... ............... 10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................. ......................  11
5. Value added of Bank support .......................                         .............................................  11
E. Summary Project Analysis .11
1. Economic assessment ...1.......................... 1
2. Financial assessment ............................ 12
3. Technical assessment ............................                                                                           12
4. Institutional assessment ............................. 13
5. Social Issues ............................. 13
6. Environmental assessment ............................. 14
7. Participatory approach ............................ 15
F. Sustainability and Risks ............................                                                                                   15
1. Sustainability ............................                                                                                 15
2. Critical risks ............................. 16
3. Possible controversial aspects  ............................                                                                16
G. Main Loan Conditions ............................ 16
1. Effectiveness ............................ 16
2. Others ............................ 16



H.  Readiness  for Implementation   ................................................................................................... 18
I.  Compliance  with  Bank  Policies  ................................................................................................... 18
ANNEXES
Annex 1        Project Design Summary ..................... 19
Annex 1-1   Key Performance Indicators ..................... 20
Annex 2        Poverty Alleviation Impacts ..................... 21
Annex 3        Project Description ..................... 26
Table A     Summary of Highway Network Improvement and Maintenance Program .       29
Table B  Summary of IST Plan .30
Annex 4    Estimated Project Costs .31
Annex 5        Economic Cost Benefit Analysis Summary .32
Table A     EIRR Simulation and Probabilistic Risk Analysis .40
Annex 6        Financial Summary and Evaluation .41
Table A  Income Statement .44
Table B   Sources and Application of Funds .45
Table C Balance Sheet .46
Table D     Assumptions for the Financial Forecasts .47
Table E     FIRR Simulation and Probabilistic Risk Analysis .48
Table F     Revenue and Expenditures of Highway Sector .49
in Guangxi Province (1996-2005)
Annex 7        Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .51
Table A     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement .54
Table B     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .55
Table C   Allocation of Loan Proceeds .56
Table C-1 Estimated Disbursement Schedule .57
Table C-2 Financing Plan .58
Annex 8        Project Processing Budget and Schedule .59
Annex 9    Implementation Program .60
Table A   Overall Implementation Schedule .61
Table B   Implementation Schedule for SNH .62
Annex 10        Review of Financial Management System .66
Annex 11        Summary of the Resettlement Action Plan and .71
Ethnic Minority People's Development Plan
Annex 12        Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary .73
Annex 13   Documents in the Project File .77
Annex 14   Statement of Loans and Credits .78
Annex 15  Country at a Glance .81
Map No:        1. IBRD 30387-February 2000
2. IBRD 30388-February 2000
3. IBRD 30389-February 2000



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 1
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                                                    Main Text
CHINA
GUANGXI HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific
China Country Department
Date: February 28, 2000                               Team Leader: Supee Teravaninthom
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang                 Sector Manager/Director: Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project ID: P058843                                   Sector: Transport
Lending Instrument: SIL                               Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    [ ] Yes  [X]  No
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan      [ I Credit      [ ] Grant      [ ] Guarantee      [ ] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 200
Proposed terms:   f ] To be defined      [ 3 Multicurrency      [X] Single currency
Standard Variable   [ ] Fixed           [X ] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):              5
Years to maturity:                20
Commitment fee:                0.75%
Service charge:                  N/A
Front-end fee on Bank loan:     1.0%
Financing plan.           [    To be defined
Source                              Local             Foreign            Total
Central Govenrnent                                        106.7                0.0             106.7
Guangxi Provincial Government                             256.7                3.4             260.1
IBRD                                                        0.0              200.0             200.0
Total:                                                    363.4              203.4             566.8
Borrower: The People's Republic of China
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Guangxi Communications Department (GCD)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY             j   2001    1   2002            2003         2004         2005         2006
Annual                     26           44           50            36           30           14
Cumulative                 26           70          120           156          186          200
Project implementation period: March 2000 to December 2005
Expected effectiveness date: July 2000                 Expected closing date: June 30, 2006
Implementing agency:  Guangxi Communications Department (GCD)
Contact person: Mr. Li Shangyan, Deputy Director of GCD
Address: 67 Xinmin Road, Nanning, Guangxi, China
Tel: (0771) 2804365 ext. 2123  Fax: (0771) 2805550             E-mail: <GxjjOl@Public.Nn.Gx.Cn>



Page 2                                                                   Project Appraisal Document
Main Text                                                            China: Guangxi Highway Project
A: Project Development Objectives (see Annex 1)
1. Goals include:
a) Providing efficient, safe and cost effective inter-provincial transport links among the land-locked
interior provinces of Guizhou, Yunnan, Sichuan and the city of Chongqing with Guangxi Zhuang
Autonomous Region and the coastal province of Guangdong. These will help stimulate social and
economic development, reduce poverty and thus improve regional disparities;
b) Helping the Guangxi government strengthen its institutional capacity to plan, design, supervise,
operate and maintain its highways.
2. Key performance indicators include:
a) Reduced time for inter-provincial trips due to a more efficient highway system involving lower
cost and shorten distance;
b) More staff trained, formally and on-the-job, in technical and managerial skills, to respond to the
needs of an expanded, high-grade highway network;
c) An increased budget to rehabilitate and maintain provincial roads (other than the high-grade
network);
d) Fewer traffic accidents, especially on the heavily traveled corridors.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R98-107 (CAS Progress Report)    Date of latest CAS discussion: May 28, 1998
The proposed project is consistent with the CAS objectives to reduce infrastructure bottlenecks and
channel the country's scarce resources to a relatively poor province which has a per capita income about two-
thirds the national average.
The CAS stipulated that an investment priority would be to expand the infrastructure so as to reduce
the bottlenecks that have constrained growth and affected the quality of life. However, due to the country's
large size and huge demand, Bank investments need to be selective. Because reducing poverty is a priority,
lending was increased for the poorer, inland provinces.
The proposed highway (238 km) from Nanning (the provincial capital of Guangxi) to Shuiren in the
north, will be an important section of the national trunk highway system (NTHS): It will connect the relatively
poor, land-locked provinces of Guizhou, Yurman, Sichuan and the city of Chongqing to the southem seaport of
Beihai and Fangcheng in Guangxi and Zhanjiang in Guangdong province. The project will help promote inter-
city and inter-provincial trade, and stimulate the economic development of these provinces, thereby reducing
regional disparities.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Demand for all transport modes has risen steadily, and the share for highways continues to increase.
Thus, the proposed highway is vital for China to re-orient its planned and centralized economy to one that is
increasingly dynamic, decentralized and market-based.
Year   __________ Passenger Transport (100 mil. p-km)        Freight Transport (100 mil. ton-km)
Highway    Railway   Waterway  C.Aviation   Highway    Railway   Waterway  C.Aviation
1980         729       1,383       129        39        764        5,716      5,052        1
(% of total)   (32)    (60.6)     (5.66)     (1.73)    (6.35)     (43.05)    (42.02)     (0.01)
1997        5,541      3,548       155        773       5,271     13,097     1,9235       29
(% of total)   (55.3)   (35)      (1.55)     (7.72)    (13.8)     (34.3)     (50.3)      (0.08)
Source: China Statistical Year Book, by China Statistical Publishing House, 1998.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 3
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                                       Main Text
Main Sector Issues. During the past five years, when investments for highways expanded rapidly,
the Bank reviewed various sectoral conditions. The studies included: (a) China Highway Development and
Management: Issues, Options and Strategies (February 1994), (b) China - Forward with One Spirit: A Strategy
for the Transport Sector (April 1998), (c) Review of Highway Technical Assistance (December 1998),
(d) Transport in China: An Evaluation of World Bank Assistance (January 1999), and (e) Issues Note for
China Highway Strategy (May 1999). These studies confirmed that the system's capacity, although
substantially expanded over the past two decades, still falls far behind demand, and that lack of capacity has
led to bottlenecks that restrict national economic development. These problems stem mainly from inadequate
investment, insufficient reforms and management/operational weaknesses.
*  Inadequate investment. With the recent Asia crisis and a fragile local financial sector, the
daunting challenge for the Government is to mobilize enough resources to meet road investment
and maintenance needs. However, the number of highway projects (those with strong traffic
revenue potential) that can be marketed to private investors is insignificant when compared to the
vast requirements. Given such constraints, authorities are interested in establishing a stable road
user, fee-based financing framework. A fuel tax, approved by the People's Congress on
November 1, 1999, which awaits final promulgation by the State Council, promises higher
revenues than the current provincial road maintenance fee. Moreover, it should offer new options
for debt financing. At the same time, regulatory reforms will be needed to open opportunities for
different modes of public-private partnerships, mobilize domestic savings by issuing bonds and
broaden the investor base.
*  Insufficient reforms and management/operational weakness. To sustain the highways,
provincial and local institutions must be able to meet the growing challenges in managing and
operating modem systems, such as maintaining roads, expanding the network, promoting road
safety, and improving construction standards and controls. To support reforms, staff will need
new skills and a better understanding of new practices. Further, the institutions, which are
fragmented within and between levels of government, must be altered.
Other problems include:
*  Road maintenance. While the highway network was expanding, funds were routinely diverted
from maintenance to new construction. Thus, the new roads will deteriorate unless they are
properly maintained. To accomplish this, highway agencies must develop comprehensive policies
and reform their institutions. Also, provincial communications departments (PCDs) must
promote sustainable road maintenance policies and funding mechanisms, refine the road
information systems to help plan and operate maintenance activities, and adjust the organizational
structures and training programs to direct more resources to maintenance.
*  Construction quality. Although highways were expanded over the past 15 years, little attention
was paid to quality. Now, officials are aware of bridges and roads failing or surfaces wearing
away prematurely. The problems have been both technical and administrative: Contractors, most
of whom were domestic, were not always well managed, often paid irregularly and pressured to
shorten the construction period. While Bank involvement in the highway sector, which generally
leads to improved design reviews, supervision and construction quality, current quality control is
not sufficient, and standards need to be more rigidly monitored in future Bank highway loans.
*  Accessibility to remote, low-income areas. China's geography makes it difficult to provide basic
road access in various regions, particularly in the interior provinces where incomes are low. The
task is enormous and requires significant public resources. Although authorities have always
stressed the importance of access to stimulate growth in these areas and ensure the poor have
mobility, they often do not borrow for this purpose since it is difficult to identify dedicated
revenue sources to repay the loans (unlike for toll roads). Thus, the Bank must renew its efforts to
support road development in low-income areas-so as to reduce poverty-through targeted
interventions. This should be part of the Bank's future lending and non-lending services to the
sector.



Page 4                                                                         Project Appraisal Document
Main Text                                                                  China: Guangxi Highway Project
Traffic safety. Accidents are one of the major problems in highway sector and, according to
official police statistics, caused 71,494 deaths and 159,308 injuries in 1995. Moreover, the
numbers are expected to rise substantially in the next few years, since the motorized vehicle fleet
is increasing at about 18% a year, which means it will double in roughly five years and quadruple
in 10 years. More problematic, while safety conditions in the industrialized countries and some
developing countries appear to be improving, they are worsening in China. In recent years, the
World Bank, Asian Development Bank and other agencies have become increasingly concerned
about China's growing traffic safety problems.
Government Strategy. In the medium term, central and provincial authorities expect the highway
system to help integrate the national economy and facilitate the movement of goods and services, given the
system's comparative economic and technological advantages--vis-a-vis other modes of transport and available
financial resources. Investment priorities identified for the Ninth Five-Year Plan (9FYP, 1996-2000) include:
Rapidly developing the national trunk highway system (NTHS);11
* Developing provincial and rural roads that will feed into the NTHS;
* Reforming policies and regulations that relate to financing, to ensure funds are used efficiently.
The strategy has already succeeded in some respects. Of the 17,000 km scheduled to be constructed in
Phase I, about 7,500 km have already been completed and another 4,500 km will be built by the end of 2000.
However, policy reforms have lagged. The National People's Congress recently approved a fuel tax to replace
the old system of financing road maintenance, which is an important step, along with increasing the
decentralization of investment decisions to provincial levels.
In the 21 st century, under the Tenth Five-Year Plan (1 OFYP), highway reforms are expected to
intensify. But, officials must also: (a) strengthen managerial efficiency under decentralization, (b) identify
appropriate ways to finance highways, (c) balance resources between construction and maintenance,
(d) improve the quality of construction and (e) promote highway safety.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
Although the Government is aware of the urgent need for reforms, it does not have the capacity to
finance and implement them. This has led to the following: (a) quick and easy methods were adopted to
finance highways through an across-the-board toll of every possible new investment-'; (b) maintenance of
existing roads was deferred because priority was given to construct new ones; (c) construction was sub-
standard due to unrealistically short timeframes; and (d) highway safety was not adequately considered. Under
the proposed project, the Bank will try to improve highway maintenance, the quality of construction and safety
conditions on the Guangxi highway network.
Besides expanding highway capacity on the SNH corridor, the project will focus on the relatively
underprivileged areas and stimulate their economic growth by providing a cost-effective transport network that
offers a shorter distance to seaports. Also, the institutional development and policy initiatives will aim to
improve the balance between road maintenance and construction, assure that construction meets higher
standards, relieve poverty, address environmental and resettlement needs and develop institutional capacity in
provincial and local transport departments.
1/ The Ministry of Communications (MOC) identified about 35,000 km of highways as the NTHS. These are scheduled to be
completed by 2010. The first phase of the NTHS investment (which would involve 17,000 km) concentrates on two north-
south, two east-west corridors and three exits to seaports. According to MOC estimates, the entire 17,000 km should be
completed by 2003. Construction in the second phase (another three vertical and five horizontal trunk highways) will
continue until 2010, when the entire system is scheduled to be completed.
2/  Authorities are beginning to reconsider if this is an appropriate way to finance highways in the long term.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 5
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                                                           Main Text
Sustaining road maintenance. The dialogue about maintenance with GCD during project
preparation helped raise awareness about the extent of the problem. GCD has developed road and bridge data
banks (RDB and BDB) to feed into the provincial version of the Chinese Pavement Management System
(CPMS), but neither is used to its fullest when maintenance activities are planned, mainly because of budget
constraints. Thus, of the roads that RDB and BDB recommend be maintained, only 30% can be covered each
year and the rest are put on a waiting list until extra funds are available. Moreover, political interests are
involved, and maintenance cannot easily compete with the program to expand the road network. To correct
this, the project will earmark about 10% of its funds to rehabilitate and maintain the roads that are most in need
of work. It will also support GCD efforts to contract out more of the maintenance and hopefully will provide a
model for this practice.
Improving the quality of construction. Besides ensuring that all safeguards are enforced in the
procurement and selection of contractors, the project will improve the engineering design and strengthen the
supervision of construction. During project preparation, the design was scrutinized by intemational experts,
and the project will try to optimize the foreign partner's involvement in the joint local-foreign supervision
team.
Relieving poverty. The project will focus on a few of the counties classified as national and
provincial poverty targets, because the income and capital investment here is substantially below the national
average (see the table below). The project's investment in the important north-south corridor of the province
through SNH, and the Highway Network Improvement and Maintenance Program (HNIMP) is expected to be
an important catalyst for development. Annex 2 provides a more detailed discussion of the poverty alleviation
impact.
Data on the Areas Benefiting from the Project (1997)                              Expected Social Benefit from Project
Admin. Cultivated  Total  Population    Minority   GDP per  Farmers' Increase Job   Increase    Increase
Area     Area    Crops   (10,000    Populations    Capita   Income/  Opportunity  Education  Health Care
Counties/Cities  (km2)  (10,000  (10,000  persons)   (10,000)     (RMB)       Cap   (10,000 nim) Opportunity  Opportunity
Ha.)    Tons)                                       (RMB)                  (10,000)    (10,000)
Hechi City    2,340     1.57     8.90    30.40    Zhuang, 23.14   5,288      1,843        17          6         1.3
Miao
& Yao:
Du'an Yao     4,095     3.53    13.95    60.18    Yao &    59.31   1,216     1,257        31          10        0.7
Autonoumous                                       Zhuang:
County
Dahua Yao     2,731     1.62     6.58    41.29    Yao &    37.90   2,950     1,306        19          7         0.4
Autono-mous                                       Zhuang:
County
Mashan        2,365     2.40    11.16    48.55    Yao &    41.09   1,436     1,225       40           8         0.3
County                                            Zhuang:
Wuming        3,366     5.60    30.88    64.00    Zhuang: 49.59   4,959      2,298        34          13        0.9
County
TianeCounty  3,196       1.49    4.94    13.86    Zhuang &  8.46   2,500     1,654        13          2         0.3
Yao:
Nandan        3,916      1.82    8.72    27.69    Zhuang,  18.65   5,716      1,686       11          6         0.7
County                                            Yao &
Miao:
Donglan       2,415     1.39     5.96    27.75    Zhuang  25.36   2,035      1,392        12          5         0.2
County                                            & Yao:
Fengshan      1,738     0.95     4.69    18.64    Zhuang   12.17   1,717     1,458        9           3         0.2
County                                            & Yao:
Bama Yao      1,970     1.02     6.42    23.41    Zhuang  20.14   2,280      1,412        11          4         0.4
Autonomous                                        & Yao:
County
Guangxi                                                            4,350
Province
China Country                                                      6,080
Ave.
Source: Guangxi Almanac, Volume of 1998



Page 6                                                                 Project Appraisal Document
Main Text                                                          China: Guangxi Highway Project
Highway safety. In 1997, there were about 5,700 traffic accidents on Guangxi highways, of which
2,079 involved injuries and a rate of 18 deaths per 10,000 vehicles-a high figure by any standards. Thus, the
project will improve safety conditions on the SNH, as these are included in the design. Other efforts to
improve safety will include treating "black spots" on the existing network in big towns and cities where serious
accidents occurred frequently.
Developing institutional capacity. The recent decentralization of much administrative decision-
making to provincial PCDs will greatly tax the capacity of existing staff who are not quite equipped to meet the
challenge. Also, due to the expanded mandate of the GCD and its lower level authorities, a new cadre of
agency officials will need to be trained to administer, regulate, manage, operate and monitor its new
responsibilities. Thus, from preparation through implementation, project staff from various GCD departments
will be trained, both on-the-job and in well designed courses in transport planning and economics, engineering,
quality control, enviromnental monitoring and assessment and highway safety. In addition, design and research
institutes and technical schools under GCD will benefit from the project's Institutional Strengthening and
Training (IST) component. An IST report with a full account of the training activities planned is available in
the project files.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 3 for a detailed description and Annex 4 for a detailed cost breakdown)
[ndicitive  %fTtl        ak 
a   Oemp_R1       °;       0 0 SetSior     Xcst                 finacn       B -an-
a) Expanding highway capacity will   Physical       394.1       69.6       173.3       44
involve building the 238 km of NTHS   investment
connecting Shuiren and Nanning and
roads that feed into the corridor.
b) Improving the system will involve the   Physical  64.7       11.4        18.0        28
much needed maintenance on national  investment
and provincial highways-half of which  Policy
are in relatively poor areas.     implication
c) Improving highway safety by upgrading  Physical    2.9        0.5         0.8        28
dangerous road sections in the suburban  investment
areas of Nanning and Wuming and on   policy
other roads selected by GCD.      implication
d) Strengthening GCD's capacity through  Institution  15.2       2.6         5.9        39
various types of support and training on  building
planning, design, construction
supervision, project management,
monitoring of environmental and
resettlement plans, operations and
maintenance.
Total                                476.9       84.1        198.0       42
Land acquisition cost          45.8        8.1         0.0         0
Interest during construction   42.1        7.4         0.0         0
Front-end fee                   2.0        0.4         2.0       100
Total financing required             566.8      100.0        200.0       35
a/ Includes contingencies



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 7
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                                        Main Text
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
These include:
*  Allocating resources more equitably between construction and maintenance
* Strengthening managerial efficiency under decentralization
Reducing regional disparities so lower income groups can benefit from the country's economic
growth
3. Benefits and target population
Benefits. The project would accelerate economic growth and hence improve living standards in
Guangxi, the interior areas of Guizhou (one of the poorest provinces in the country, with 1997 per capita
income of RMB 2,200 or US$265)11, Yunnan, Sichuan, and Chongqing municipality--which are among China's
lowest-income areas. In Guangxi, investment in the proposed highway will directly benefit poor communities
in Duan and Mashan, where per capita income is RMB 1200-RMB 1500 (US$145-US$180), which is below the
Guangxi average and greatly below the national average.
The strategy in the Ninth Five Year Plan, which most likely will continue in the Tenth Five-Year Plan,
attempts to bring more development to the middle and western part of the country, so as to narrow the regional
income and development disparities. A Poverty Impact Assessment Report was completed and is available in
the project files. The project investments will provide a more cost-effective route to the sea for the mid-south
region, thereby accelerating its economic and resource development, encouraging national market integration
and helping unify this ethnic minority province. The project will also strengthen the administration of the
Guangxi communications departments and build their staff's capacity to support growing economic
opportunities in this mid-south region of China.
A survey of the impact of transport investments on economic growth in a sample of counties in the
Guangxi Autonomous Region from 1991-1996 showed positive results, with a time delay of about two years.
The greatest effect in terms of higher economic growth was felt in the counties with the lowest per capita GDP
and from investments in the low categories road (Class III highway standard and lower). Interviews with
farmers and administrators indicated the former benefited most (from higher-than-average transport
investments in Guangxi municipalities and counties) during the construction period when those that were
displaced, say, from flooding following the damming of a river, were compensated with land in new areas: For
example, they were allocated land on hillsides (as other low-lying land was unavailable), where they grew
higher unit-value fruit (lychees) instead of lower unit-value rice Real incomes rose after about two years as the
new trees began to bear fruit. Marketing these and other new products was facilitated by the upgrading and
reconstruction of access roads to the new areas.
Similar changes can be expected from the proposed project. Although the amount of resettlement will
be minimized, the number of farmers who will lose land will be substantial. The Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP) designed for the project has a rehabilitation program aiming to increase the value of agricultural
production, such as introducing better seeds, and encouraging the cultivation of higher value crops and fruit
trees. Therefore, it is expected that the experience of the benefits in those other places would be replicated in
the case of this project, and they could well be better off, afterwards. Further, there would be employment
benefits of about one million man-months of unskilled labor during the four-year construction period.
Target population. An estimated 4 million people in the five cities and counties through which the
proposed highway passes will directly benefit, 80% of whom are ethnic minorities.
3/ Average Chinese per capita GDP in 1997 was RMB 6,080 (US$733). Per capita GDP for the project interior areas of
Guangxi, Yunnan, Guizhou, Sichuan, and Chongqing, were RMB 4,350 (US$524), RMB 3954 (US$476), RMB 2,200
(US$265), RMB 3,877 (US$467), and RMB 4,438 (US$535), respectively.



Page 8                                                                 Project Appraisal Document
Main Text                                                          China: Guangxi Highway Project
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
The proposed project would be implemented by the Project Management Office (PMO) of the Guangxi
Communications Department (GCD). The PMO was established in June 1999 to prepare the project and will
manage it during its implementation, which will extend from 2000-2005. One GCD Deputy Director will be
the Director of the PMO. There will be two full time PMO Deputy Director to assist him on the day-to-day
activities. The PMO will be organized into 8 units with about 80 staff (See organization chart below).
Organizational Chart of the PMO
PMO
1 Director + 2 Deputies
Administrative Division
15 Persons
Financial Division
6 Persons
RaEngdnineng Management Division
10 Persons
Highway AmnsrinIntemational Business Division e
Procurement Division
, . :, , _ ,.  ...... n h .e15 Per,sons,
b  Land Acquisition & Resettlement Div.     B
|          10~~I Persons
0          10~~I Persons    
a  Road Maintenance &        Safety Division a
After the SNH construction is completed, it will be operated and maintained by the eigh-Grade
Highway Administration Bureau (HGHAB), which currently manages 575 km of expressways and Class I
highways in Guangxi.
The Ministry of Communications (MOC) will direct the project at the central level. Although this will
be the first Bank-financed highway project for GCD, the agency is somewhat familiar with Bank requirements
as it is currently implementing a Bank-financed inland waterway project (although on a much smaller scale). In
the first year, the MOC will coordinate the project and provide technical support when needed.
The People's Republic of China (PRC) will be the borrower of the proposed Bank loan, and will on-
lend the proceeds to Guangxi under the same conditions it receives. As in ongoing projects, the accounts,
special account, and statements of expenditures will be audited by the State Audit Administration.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 9
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                                               Main Text
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Considering the existing and future socio-economic conditions in the interior provinces, the level of
economic development and poverty, the volume and composition of traffic on the corridor, and the capacity of
the existing transport infrastructure, the proposed highway was selected as the most cost-effective and
appropriate way to improve transport while helping reduce poverty. The altemative of improving existing
roads was investigated in the feasibility study and rejected because it is neither technically viable nor cost
effective in the long run. This is especially true with the 96 km Class II section that passes through a narrow
valley where existing alignments cannot be upgraded to handle the expected traffic growth. The technical
standards (width of road, number of lanes and class of highway) and altemative alignments were also
evaluated. Altematives for highway rehabilitation and improvements, and for institutional reform were fully
discussed and finalized with GCD. The Project Feasibility Study and other preparation documents are available
in the project files.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned)
Latest Supervision
Sector issue                              PROJECT                        (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed
projects only)
BANK-FINANCED                      (IP)      (DO)
Expand the highway network (1)                  Completed projects
Remove bottlenecks (2)           China Highway Project (1-3)                           S         S
Carry out institutional          Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu expressway (2-4)               S         S
strengthening/training (3)       Sichuan provincial highway (1-5)                      S         S
Improve operation & maintenance of  Shaanxi provincial highway (1-4, 6)                S         S
high-grade highways (4)          Jiangxi provincial highway (1-3)                      U         S
highway safety (5)        Shandong provincial highway (1-4)                    S          S
Amprvie povery (6)               Jiangsu provincial transport (1-3)                    S         S
Ongoing projects
Zhejiang provincial highway (1-4)
Guangdong provincial highway (1-5)
Henan highway (1-3, 6)
Fujian highway (1-3)
National highway: Hebei/Henan (1-4)
Xinjiang highway (1-3, 5)
Shanghai-Zhejiang highway (1-3, 5)
Second Shaanxi provincial highway
Second Henan provincial highway (1-6)
Second Xinjiang HW (1-3)
National highway II: Guangdong/Hunan highway (1-3)
National highway III: Hubei (1-4)
Tn-provincial highway: Gansu/Ningxia/Neimon
highway(1-6)
Anhui Provincial HW (1-5)
National highway IV: Hubei/Hunan (1-4)
Fujian HW 11 (1-3)                                        .



Page 10                                                                    Project Appraisal Document
Main Text                                                              China: Guangxi Highway Project
LatestvSupervision
Sector issue                              Project                      (Form g4 5) Rtg
( Bank-ifina:ced
projects on4ly
Planned projects                   (IP)     (DO)
Henan HW III (1-6)
Jiangxi II highway
Xinjiang III HW
OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES                 Asian Development Bank
Shenyang-Benxi highway
Hunan Expressway
Julin Expressway
Heilongjiang Expressway
Yunnan Expressway
Hebei and Liaonong Expressway
Chongqing Expressway
Liaoning and Julin Expressway
Jiangxi highway
Shanxi highway
Guizhou highway
Guangxi (Nanning -Youyiguan) highway
Japan Bank for International Cooperation
Hainan development
Hefei-Tongling highway & Tongling-Yangtze River
HW bridge construction
Chongqing Yangtze River II Bridge construction
._____________________________ :Qiqihai Nenjiang River HW Bridge construction
Implementation progress (IP)/development objective (DO) ratings: HS (highly satisfactory); S (satisfactory);
U (unsatisfactory);   HU (highly unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
With a good track record of 23 projects in the highway sector-seven completed and 16 ongoing-the
Bank has accumulated substantial experience preparing and implementing them. Although the above table
shows that overall performance is generally satisfactory, several problems occurred that were addressed when
designing the proposed project. They include:
* The quality of construction was compromised to meet short schedules;
* Roads were open to traffic once civil works were completed but the electrical and mechanical
(E&M) facilities were not installed, due to delays. This negatively affected road safety;
* It has taken a decade for policy and regulatory reforms to materialize, sometimes due to the
readiness of the system development and to a lack of openness to new ideas;
* TA studies were done with reluctance unless the topics were selected by the implementing agencies
or involved themes that needed little input from foreign consultants.
The project will deal with these problems by:
* Closely supervising construction to control quality. This will require a well-staffed and equipped
supervision foreign/local team on site. Also, the Bank will need to provide more oversight; since
the project will be managed by the field office, this will not impose undue costs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 11
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                                                     Main Text
*   Completing the E&M component in a timely manner by applying strict controls and beginning the
design and tendering procedures early enough to have them ready soon after the major civil works
are finished;
*   Improving resource allocations between new construction and maintenance, as part of the policy
reforms. The Bank and GCD have discussed and agreed upon the action plans for the HNIMP,
giving priority to the poorer areas.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The project enjoys strong support from local governments as well as central agencies (SDPC, MOF
and MOC). For example, officials in the land-locked and relatively poor province of Guizhou are so
enthusiastic that they began building their own section of highway that will connect to the project highway and
will open even earlier. For their part, the MOC and Guangxi government have approved RMB 886 million and
RMB 2,147 million (US$107 million-US$260 million), respectively, as the state and provincial contribution to
the project.
5. Value added of Bank support
Since the Bank's first involvement in 1984, its contributions have been regarded as positive catalysts in
the sector-both through direct transfers of resourcesl1 and, more importantly, by proposing policy reforms-/ to
upgrade the relatively primitive road system of the early 1980s to today's national network.
e   During the first eight years (1984-1992), the Bank helped China rapidly expand the basic network
and acquire the information needed to do more advanced planning for the national system;
*   Over the following eight years (1992 to the present), the Bank helped China apply its master plan
to link all its provinces with the modem highway system and simultaneously adopt reforms: For
example, a fuel tax resolution was approved by the National People's Congress on November 1,
1999.
The value added of Bank support will continue along the general direction described above: As the
country intensifies its decentralization and maintains the central highway agency to devise policies, the Bank
would like to help strengthen the capacity of local highway agencies and central agencies as they consider new
reforms.
E. Summary Project Analysis (detailed assessments are in the project file, Annex 13)
1. Economic Assessment (supported by Annex 5)
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV (12%)=US$ 179.9 million; EIRR= 17%
Cost Effectiveness Analysis
Other (specify)
4/  RMBl 10 billion (US$13.25 billion) was invested in the highway sub-sector in 1997, of which US$700 million (or 5.3%)
was from World Bank loans. In 1998, during the East Asia crisis, the Govemment launched an economic stimulus
program using investment in transport as an instrument to spark spending in other sectors. Through this program,
investment in transport almost doubled to RMB 210 billion (US$25.6 billion) in 1998, of which 55% was for NTHS
construction, 30% for provincial trunk roads and 15% for low volume roads. The portion of the Bank investment was stable-
-at US$680 million in 1998. Although this amount cannot be considered high, given the sudden and unusual increased
demand for such investment, it is not insignificant either, since it contributed 5% to NTHS needed investments. Over the
past few years, when adding ADB and OECF investments, the amounts totaled US$1.2 billion- US$ 1.5 billion a year: 45%
was a Bank contribution, 30% was from ADB and 25% was from OECF. It is estimated that equal amounts will be needed
for highways in the next 3-5 years, for which external assistance will be required.
5/  Although TA and policy reform do not account for huge monetary contributions, the Bank has discussed sector policies
since its first involvement in 1984. For example, the Bank advised the Govemment, through continued dialogue with MOC
since 1987/88, to switch from road maintenance fees charged at the local level to a fuel tax. However, it has taken about 1o
years for such advice to translate into policy.



Page 12                                                               Project Appraisal Document
Main Text                                                         China: Guangxi Highway Project
The economic evaluation covers two major project components that account for about 80% of total
project costs: (a) the construction of the SNH, and (b) the HNIMP for 10 sections of provincial roads, half of
which are in poverty areas. The principal measured benefits are savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC) and
time, and enhanced road safety. The estimated overall economic internal rate of return (EIRR) is 17%, with the
figures for the SNH and HNIMP calculated at 16.4% and 24.3%, respectively. The overall economic net
present value (ENPV) based on a 12% discount rate is estimated at RMB 1,493.1 million, of which the SNH is
estimated to contribute RMB 1,246. million and the HNIMP component RMB 247 million. The evaluation
results and a description of the method used to derive them are provided in Annex 5 and summarized below.
Summary of Economic Evaluation Results
Best estimate EIRR (in %)    ENPV (RMB million, 12%)
Shuiren - Nanning Highway (SNH):
Shuiren-Daxing                              16.9                        298.9
Daxing-Duan                                 17.7                         103.1
Duan-Nanning                                16.2                         844.0
Subtotal                          16.4                        1,246.0
Highway Network Improvement and
Maintenance Program (HNIMP)                     24.3                          247.1
Total                                     17.0                       1,493.1
2. Financial Assessment: (see Annex 6)
Fiscal impact
-  The project may significantly affect Guangxi's budgets and capital investment programs during its
implementation. The counterpart fund issue has been fully discussed with Guangxi govermnent to
ensure that maintenance funds will not be sacrificed for capital construction;
* Tolls for different types of vehicles using the proposed SNH will be carefully determined.
However, in making the financial analysis, charges were set on the relatively low end and annual
growth was assumed to be low, as GCD indicated that tolls on the SNH are only to repay the Bank
loan and not maximize financial rates of retum. Thus, although the highway will generate enough
revenue over the loan period, deficits will be recorded in the early years; these can be met either by
raising the tolls and/ or by transferring revenue from other user charges. The FIRR for SNH is
expected to be 7.1 % and the NPV (at a 6% discount rate) is expected to be RMB 582.2 million.
3. Technical Assessment
a. Engineering and cost estimates
*  The geographical terrain of the Class II section (97 km) of the SNH is extremely difficult and
warrants a more careful review before a final alignment is decided. A foreign expert was hired to
carefully study all options at a relatively early period of project preparation;
*  The SNH and the 10 sections of highway included in the HNMIP were designed by highly
qualified Chinese institutes, which applied the latest MOC standards. The engineering designs and
bid documents were reviewed by international consultants and found satisfactory. The
technologies involved are proven and familiar to Chinese contractors;
*  The project cost estimates reflect November 1999 prices and were based on the latest available
engineering studies and prevailing unit rates for civil works, remuneration of foreign experts
assigned in other highway projects in China, and recent price quotes for equipment. Estimates
include physical and price contingencies: Physical contingencies were calculated at 10% of the
base cost of civil works; price contingencies were calculated for foreign costs, using US annual
escalation factors of 2.9% in 2000, and 2.5% from 2001-2005. Price contingencies for local costs
were based on a local annual escalation of 2% for 2000 and 5.5% from 2001-2005.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 13
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                                      Main Text
b. Financial management system and disbursement techniques
*  The system, which includes staffing, intemal controls, accounting, reporting and auditing was
reviewed according to the Guide for Review and Design of Accounting and Reporting Systems for
World Bank Projects (prepared by COSU in December, 1997) and the Review of Financial
Management Systems as stipulated in Annex II of the LACI Implementation Handbook. The
Review has concluded that this project meets minimum Bank financial management requirements.
In terms of disbursement technique, the project will be utilizing traditional disbursement
techniques as opposed to using the PMR-based disbursement system. The summary review report
is in Annex 10 and the full report with all attachment is available in Project file.
*  GCD prepared a comprehensive Project Financial Management Manual to document the detailed
procedures; a copy is available in the project files. PMO, created under GCD, will maintain
project accounts and records. The Guangxi Regional Finance Bureau will manage the special
account and prepare disbursement applications for the Bank. The project will use the standard set
of project financial statements, agreed to between the Bank and MOF, which will be submitted to
the Bank semi-annually and include: (1) balance sheet, (2) summary of sources and uses of funds
by project component, (3) statement of implementation of loan agreement and (4) special account
statement. The format for these statement were fully discussed and agreed with GCD and included
in the Project Financial Management Manual. The Guangxi Regional Audit Bureau will be
responsible for auditing both the project and participating agencies. The annual audit report will be
submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of the calendar year.
*  There is one other Bank financed project handled by GCD apart from the Proposed Guangxi
Highway Project. That is the Inland Waterways (Loan No. 3910). So far there has been no
outstanding audits or audit issues exist under the ongoing Inland Waterway Project.
4. Institutional Assessment
a. Executing agencies
GCD can handle the project successfully. In June, 1999, it created a Project Management Office
(PMO) to coordinate the preparation. With about 80 staff, the PMO will manage the project during
implementation. It has extensively used advisers/experts from completed or ongoing Bank-financed highway
projects in other provinces, which resulted in a better design and smoother preparation than would have been
possible otherwise. The PMO's structure and relationship to other GCD agencies/institutions are discussed in
section C.4 of this report and also described in the IST report, available in the project files.
b. Project management
Although GCD is somewhat familiar with Bank procurement procedures through its work with the
Bank-financed Inland Waterway Project, that undertaking is much smaller and deals mainly with an equipment
purchase and only a limited amount of civil works. Thus, the institutional strengthening, training and HR
development plan were reviewed and agreed to be included as a project component. A procurement specialist
from RMC will be involved at an early stage of preparation to conduct a workshop to ensure procurement is
handled appropriately.
5. Social Issues
*  The project is located in one of China's poorest areas and will complement the local government's
poverty alleviation efforts-particularly in agricultural development and rural roads-by providing
easier, more efficient and less costly means of transport;
*  The HNIMP component is designed to be a poverty target intervention and criteria were developed
to help select the areas for such intervention. A survey of its social impact was included as part of
the component preparation and its report, a Poverty Impact and Social Assessment Report, was
included in the project files;



Page 14                                                               Project Appraisal Document
Main Text                                                         China: Guangxi Highway Project
*  The road sections pre-identified under the HNIMP component does not involve any land
acquisition and resettlement;
*  Under the SNH component, land will need to be acquired and homes demolished, which will affect
29,302 residents-27,213 specifically by land acquisition. Planning for resettlement began in
1996, which included a detailed census and inventory of affected people, a sample socio-economic
survey in the affected areas and a review of project impacts on poverty alleviation. Based on these
reviews, a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was prepared according to local laws and the World
Bank's OD 4.30. The resettlement and rehabilitation strategy follows the traditional Chinese
approach, which is based on land and agriculture, and plans village collectives as the basic unit to
restore livelihoods. The RAP incorporates the census findings, inventory and analysis of impacts,
along with the legal framework and resettlement principles, entitlements, institutional
arrangements, grievance mechanisms, implementation arrangements and schedules, a budget and
monitoring arrangements;
*  Over 80% of the population in the project area belong to different ethnic minority groups. Over
95% of those affected are Zhuang and Yao, with Zhuang accounting for over 85%. Thus, the RAP
is targeting the ethnic groups, and ethnicity issues were particularly considered during preparation.
The social assessment identified all the ethnic minority groups, villages and households and
produced economic and cultural information, including history, current legal provisions on ethnic
minority groups, land tenure, social organization, livelihood pattems, etc. Project information was
provided to the groups affected and the RAP incorporated their needs and concems. These aspects
were summarized in a separate document, "Ethnic Minority People's Development Plan (EMDP),"
attached to the RAP and available in the project files. A summary of the RAP and the EMDP is in
Annex 11. The RAP and EMDP has been made available locally and released at the Bank's Public
Information Center (PIC) on November 5, 1999.
6. Environmental assessment:     Environmental Category   [x] A    [ ] B   [ ] C
An environmental assessment (EA) was carried out for the SNH. During its preparation and
evaluation, Chinese national procedures as well as those required by the Bank were followed. Documents such
as the Environmental Impact Assessment Report (EIA), Environmental Action Plan (EAP) and Executive
Summary (ES) were reviewed by the Bank and discussed with GCD during the Preparation Mission in March
1999 and the Pre-Appraisal Mission in August 1999. SNH's final draft EA documents were submitted to the
Bank in October 1999 and found satisfactory. A sectoral environmental assessment approach was applied to
the HNIMP. The Initial Environmental Evaluation (IEE) Reports and EAP were submitted to the Bank in
October 1999 and considered satisfactory; their major findings are summarized below. More detailed
information on the SNH environmental assessment as well as HNIMP components are attached as Annex 12,
and the full report is available in the project files and released at Bank Public Information Center (PIC) on
November 5, 1999.
a. Shuiren-Nanning Highway (SNH)
*  Potential impacts. These include noise and air pollution during the construction and operation
phases, water pollution during the construction phase, and the weakening of the limestone
mountains. There are no natural habitats and environmentally protected areas along the SNH, no
protected fauna and flora, and no cultural relics (as none have been found);
*  Mitigation measures. The EAP specified mitigation measures, environmental monitoring plans,
institutional arrangements and the estimated cost to implement the EAP, and training. Mitigation
measures include selecting the appropriate alignment, minimizing the cutting of limestone
mountains and restoring vegetation, watering to prevent dust during construction, and adopting
noise protection measures such as relocating villages and schools, and constructing noise barriers.
The engineering design and technical specifications for the SNH incorporated measures to protect the
environment. It was ascertained that the proposed highway would not affect ecologically sensitive areas, and
that, by implementing the EAP, the construction and operation should have no significant adverse impacts on



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 15
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                                       Main Text
the environment. Starting in 2001, the GCD will furnish to the Bank by March 31 of each year an annual
environmental monitoring review of the construction phase and for each of the first three years after it is
completed.
b. Highway Network Improvement and Maintenance Program (HNIMP)
No new construction will be included in the HNIMP. There are no natural protection zones and no
cultural property in the project areas. Since the construction works are relatively small, no significant impacts
are envisaged. Mitigation measures satisfactory to the Bank have been integrated in the EAP available in the
project files.
c. Public Consultation and Information Disclosure
*  Public consultation and feedback. During the EA work, residents in the areas affected were
consulted intensively. Meetings also involved council representatives, local governments and
enterprises. Also, GCD has hired an external consultant to analyze public opinion, and
questionnaires were supplemented with interviews. It was determined that the public was
concerned about the noise and dust, and asked for adequate mitigation measures, particularly at
schools. These concerns were reflected in the engineering designs and EAP;
*  Information disclosure. An official letter from GCD granting the Bank permission to release the
final EIAs, EAPs and ESs to the public was received on September 30, 1999, after which these
documents were sent to the PIC. The documents were submitted to the Bank in October 1999 and
made public at GCD.
7. Participatory Approach
The direct beneficiaries are the communities along the Shuiren-Nanning corridor as well as those
between cities in the corridor and beyond. Also, the GCD and related institutions will benefit through
institutional strengthening and training. The affected institutions and commnunities had helped formulate and
compare alternative alignments as well as the location of interchanges, underpasses and grade separations. As
mentioned above, during the EIA preparation, communities were given project information and were consulted
through meetings with local government representatives and public opinion questionnaires supplemented by
interviews.
Also, all affected groups and households, mainly ethnic minorities, were identified through the census
and inventory. They and the local governments were provided with project information through newspapers,
posters and public meetings. Focus groups were held and interviews were conducted extensively with local
officials and the communities to: (a) further disseminate project information, (b) identify residents' concerns,
and (c) consult those affected about resettlement and rehabilitation strategies. People's needs and concerns
were incorporated into the EIA and RAP.
During implementation, consultations will continue and information will be disseminated. A
resettlement information booklet, including details about each household's entitlements, compensation and
grievance procedures will be distributed to affected residents before resettlement occurs. Both internal and
external monitoring of the resettlement program (by independent reviewers) will be conducted regularly during
implementation.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
Experience from completed and ongoing Bank-financed highway projects indicates a strong
commitment among Chinese officials to implement the physical components, which account for
most of the costs. Generally, counterpart funds are available on time. However, when the
province becomes financially over-stretched-due to the general policy of speeding up investrnent
in the sector-funds are diverted from maintenance. To ameliorate this situation, about 10% of
project funds were allocated to improve and maintain existing roads, especially those in poorer
areas;



Page 16                                                                    Project Appraisal Document
Main Text                                                              China: Guangxi Highway Project
* As explained earlier, the level of tolls need to be reviewed periodically so the project can be
financially and economically viable and the province can repay the Bank loan as well as provide
maintenance when required. In general, the level of maintenance has been adequate for the low
volumes of highway traffic, and the maintenance component should extend this practice into the
future, when traffic is expected to increase.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                        Ris Ratin          Risk Minimizati      asure
From Outputs to Objectives
* Central, provincial and local governments are not   N        * Maintain effective dialogue with
sufficiently commnitted to implementing the                    central and provincial governments.
project.
* Insufficient accountability of the use of intemal   M        * Frequently monitor resource utilization
and external resources.                                        practices through regular supervision
and audits.
* Political pressures interfere with implementation   M        * Prequalify contractors properly to
and adversely affect the quality of construction.              ensure the best are selected; also,
ensure that external supervision of
construction is provided, along with
frequent Bank supervision.
* Trained staff do not have enough opportunity to     N        * Continue dialogue with the provincial
apply acquired skills in the workplace.                        government and coordinate the work
among the agencies.
From Components to Outputs
* Staff are unfamiliar with ICB procedures for civil  M        * Staff are trained in procurement
works and thus cause delays.                                   procedures before the project begins.
Also, during implementation, progress
is closely followed in order to provide
timely advice and support.
Overall Risk Rating                     M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
The project will include adequate measures to ameliorate potential negative effects on the environment
and on residents' livelihoods, due to land acquisition and resettlement. However, as the project is expected to
improve livelihoods and participation practices, controversy is expected to be minimal.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness
Standard
2. Other
Agreements reached with the Government
The borrower will ensure that loan proceeds are on-lent to the beneficiary (Guangxi) at the same terms
and conditions as the Bank loan, with the beneficiary bearing the foreign exchange risk.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 17
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                                       Main Text
Agreements reached with the beneficiary
a. Shuiren-Nanning highway (SNH)
* GCD shall undertake, complete and furnish the Bank an analysis and recommendation for toll rates
on SNH by June 30, 2004, taking into account the findings of studies about this issue under other
Bank-financed highway projects in China, the experience with toll rates on major roads, and the
results of a survey of user responses to tolls.
b. Highway safety
*  By December 31, 2005, GCD will complete the black-spot improvements.
c. Institutional strengthening and training
By November 30 of each year, beginning in 2000, GCD will furnish an annual training schedule to
the Bank and carry out the program, as agreed.
d. Environment, land acquisition and resettlement
*  GCD will execute the EAP and RAP for SNH in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and furnish any
proposed revisions to the Bank for prior approval;
*  GCD will carry out the HNIMP/EAP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank for any HNIMP sub-
project;
-  GCD will maintain policies and procedures that will allow the agency to regularly monitor and
evaluate implementation of EAPs and RAP according to indicators acceptable to the Bank with
respect to the SNH and HNIMP sub-projects;
-  Under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, GCD will prepare and furnish to the Bank: (1) an
annual environmental monitoring report starting March 31, 2001 and ending on March 31, 2006;
(2) by March 31 and September 30 of each year, starting September 30, 2000 until two years after
completion of the Project, an internal resettlement report prepared by agencies of Guangxi
responsible for resettlement activities on the implementation and results of such activities during
the preceding six-months period; and (3) by June 30 and December 31 of each year, starting
December 31, 2000 until two years after completion of the Project, an external resettlement report
prepared by an independent entity acceptable to the Bank, on the implementation and results of the
resettlement activities during the same six-months period referred to in clause (2) above.
e. Reporting, monitoring and auditing
Using guidelines acceptable to the Bank, GCD shall prepare and submit (to the Bank):
*  A monthly progress report on the civil works of SNH;
*  A quarterly progress report on implementation of all components;
*  An annual monitoring report in a form satisfactory to the Bank that assesses the degree to which
implementation and development goals were achieved for all components, by March 31 of each
year, beginning in 2001 and ending in 2006;
*  An implementation completion report in a format acceptable to the Bank within six months of the
closing date of the Bank loan;
*  Audited accounts for the project, statements of expenditures and special accounts prepared by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, within six months of the close of each fiscal year.



Page 18                                                                Project Appraisal Document
Main Text                                                          China: Guangxi Highway Project
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] l.a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[ ]  1.b) Not applicable.
[X]  2.   The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X]  3.   The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ]  4.   The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Tskeam Leader: Supee Teravanintborn
Sector Director: Jitendra N. Bajpai
C    try Director: Yukon Huang



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                Page 19
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                                                   Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
China: Guangxi Highway Project
Hierarchy of Objectives       Key Performance indicators       Monitoring and Evaluation           Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:            Sector Indicators:           Sector / Country Reports:      (from Goal to Bank Mission)
* Expanding infrastructure      * More investment allocated to   * CAS reports.                   * Govemment's strong
facilities to reduce existing    under-privileged inland       * CEM and other progress reports   commitment to improve
bottlenecks.                     provinces.                      on poverty assessment.           disparity of income and
* Investment priority attached to    * Improved access to services                                  development between coastal
poverty reduction, which         (school, health center,                                          and inland regions.
increases lending to poorer,     employment opportunities)
inland provinces.
Project Development Objective:    Outcome / Impact Indicators:         Project Reports on:           (from Objective to Goal)
* Provide efficient, safe and cost-   * Reduced time spent for inter-    * Traffic speed and ADT on main   * Economic conditions in the
effective transport infrastructure  provincial trips via a more  highways.                        country and provinces remain
to support inter-provincial      efficient highway system      * Reduced transport costs.         robust.
transport among land-locked     involving lower costs and      a Performance of staff who work    * Trained staff remain in the
hinterland provinces in order to  shorter distances.             in the project and/or attend     project.
stimulate their social and    * Increased budget to rehabilitate    training.                   * Counterpart funds not over-
economic development, reduce     and maintain provincial roads.                                   stretched and maintenance is
poverty and decrease regional   aFw  traffic accidnts,         * Progress on network              sustained.
disparities.                     Fewer traffic accidents,       rehabilitation and maintenance
disparities,                  especially on the heavily       program.
traveled corridor.            * Progress on traffic safety.
Output from each component:           Output Indicators:              Project Reports on:          (from Outputs to Objective)
* Approximately 238 km of       * Number of high-grade           * Monthly progress by supervision  * Govemment stays fully
Shuiren-Nanning highway          highways constructed            team.                            committed to implementing the
constructed.                  * Number of engineers,           * Quarterly progress and annual    project.
* Technical and management         economists, transport planners,  monitoring.                   * Tight monitoring and
capacity of GCD and its related  etc trained domestically and  * Bank's supervision missions.     accountability of the use of
departments strengthened.        overseas.                       Monitoring of disbursements.     intemal and external resources.
* Existing road network,        * Number of provincial networks                                   * Political pressures do not
especially in relatively poor   rehabilitated.                                                    interfere with realistic
areas, properly maintained and    * All agreed black-spot                                         implementation plans and
improved.                       improvements completed.                                           adversely affect construction
* Traffic safety on existing                                                                        quality.
network improved.                                                                               * Trained staff have opportunity
to apply acquired skills in
_______________ ______________________________          _______________     w orkplace.
Project Components/Sub-          Inputs: (budget for each           Project Reports on:         (from Components to Outputs)
components:                     component)
a) Highway capacity expansion          US$ 347.1 million         * Progress relating to monitoring   * Lack of familiarity with ICB
b) Highway rehabilitation and           US$ 56.7 million           and evaluation of inputs; this   procedures for civil works can
improvement program                                             will be reviewed bi-annually     cause delay.
c) Highway safety component             US$  2.6 million           during supervision missions.
d) Strengthening of highway            US$  14.7 million         * Project entity will arrange for
management capacity of GCD                                      quarterly progress reports for
Total                           US$ 421.1 million          Bank review.
* A mid-term review of the
Contingencies                          US$ 55.8 million            project is planned for the end of
Land acquisition                       US$ 45.8 million            the second year of project
Interest during construction           USS 42.1 million            implementation.
Front-end fee                          USS   2.0 million
Total Financing Required               US$ 566.8 million



Page 20                                                                                           Project Appraisal Document
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                              China: Guangxi Highway Project
Annex 1-1
Key Performance Indicators
Development Indicators
Attainment of Project                                   1999              2003          2005 Benchmark         2008
Objectives                                        Baseline        Benchmark           (1s year of      Benchmark
operation)     _____ ____
* Provide a more      * ADT on SNH (veh./day)                                                4,669             6,236
efficient, and cost   Shuiren-Duan                    3,133             3,846              3,513             4,918
effective transport   Duan-Mashan                     1,838             1,865              4,050             5,713
infrastructure        Mashan-Wuming                   2,019            3,075               4,982              6,479
Wuming-Xijin                   3,811             4,913               7,852            10,085
Xijin-Ertang                   6,523             8,302               5,137             6,469
ADT on existing N.R.210
(veh./day)                     3,133             3,846               2,125             2,586
Shuiren-Duan                   1,838             1,865               1,153             1,473
Duan-Mashan                    2,019             3,075               1,179             1,276
Mashan-Wuming                  3,811             4,913               2,290             2,743
Wuming-Xijin                   6,523             8,302               5,539             6,540
* ADT speed on existing
N.R.210 (km/hr)                 34.2              33.2                36.0              35.0
Shuiren-Duan                    33.5              33.5                35.1              34.3
Duan-Mashan                     36.2              34.2                38.9              38.5
Mashan-Wuming                   33.3              32.2                35.6              34.8
Wuming-Xijin                    35.5              34.1                36.5              35.5
* Accident rates on existing
N.R.210 (year 1998)
Shuiren-Duan                     880              885                 885               875
Duan-Mashan                      850              850                 850               850
Mashan-Wuming                   1,280            1,280               1,280             1,280
Wuming-Xijin                     220              220                 220               220
* ADT on road under HNIMP
(veh./day)
G324 Bose-Tianlin              3,520             4,528               5,136             6,031
G324 Pingcun-Jinyu             2,285             2,724               2,976             3,251
S20324 Mashan line             2,074             2,618               2,942             3,504
S20324 Dahua line              2,034             2,567               2,885             3,436
G209 Qingtang-Wuli             2,179             2,699               3,004             3,330
G209 Wuli-Hengxian             2,179             2,648               2,920             3,237
G209 Changle-Hepu              5,719             7,220               8,113             9,391
G324 Shinan-Guigang            7,568             9,736              11,043            12,967
G325 Wujia-Hepu                6,902             8,074               8,733             9,682
S20323 Wuming-Luoxu            3,030             3,345               3,724             3,952
* Tonnage of goods                 696             1,023               1,258             1,656
transported to coastal
provinces (1000tonlyr)
Implementation Indicators
FY 2000       FY 2001       FY 2002       FY 2003        FY 2004      FY 2005
% of civil works completed on SNH           0            10           30            60             90            100
% of highways improved/rehabilitated        -            14           39            64            100            100
under HNIMP
Highway safety: % of improved black-        -            10           30            60            100            100
spots
Number of person-months of completed     337.5           249          36             30            15          718.5
training
Note: SNH = Shuiren-Nanning Highway



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 21
China: Guangxi Highway Project                               Annex 2: Poverty Alleviation Impacts
Annex 2: Poverty Alleviation Impacts of the Proposed Highway
China: Guangxi Highway Project
Econometric Analysis
1.    The Autonomous Region of Guangxi has invested heavily in highways as part of a vigorous strategy to
alleviate poverty. Until recently, it concentrated economic development in Nanning and the coastal region. The
investment is in line with the national strategy advocated under the 9FYP to bring more development to the
middle and western part of the country. Such strategy will most likely continue under the IOFYP.
2.     An econometric analysis was carried out while preparing for this project. Data on investment in roads
of different categories and economic output was analyzed for 20 counties and the region for 1991-1997. The
analysis focused on the impact of annual road investments on the rate of economic growth. By analyzing the
changes in investment and economic output, it was hoped to avoid the problems of measuring the stock of road
infrastructure that have frustrated other attempts to assess results. Also, by studying data for counties in a
single province, analysts were able to reduce the effect of exogenous factors on dependent variables and the
rate of economic growth.
3.    Results indicated that investment in Class II and better roads affected greatly economic growth at the
regional level and much less at the county level; this could be because higher category roads have the greatest
impact beyond the counties through which they pass; also, investment in lower category roads affected
economic growth in the counties in which the investments were made, but with a time delay of two years.
4.     While the statistical significance of these results provided a minimally acceptable level of confidence,
they support the strategy of investing in roads to stimulate economic growth and surnount a key constraint to
alleviating poverty. Other issues that need to be addressed include altering the distribution of growth so as to
benefit the poor; this would be achieved by generating jobs, rather than increasing the wealth of those already
employed. To investigate whether this condition was met, an additional analysis will include data on
employment as well as economic growth
Description of the Highway
5.     Except for 39 km near Nanning, the existing highway between Shuiren and Nanning is either a
Class III or Class IV, mixed traffic, all-purpose road without access control and a design capacity of 1,500-
4,000 mte (medium-truck equivalent vehicles) per day. Motorized traffic on the road increased by an average
of 11.5% a year from 1990-1998 and by 1998 had reached 1,110- 4,100 motorized vehicles a day throughout its
length. Non-motorized and other traffic (such as bicycles, animal carts, small farm tractors and motorcycles)
added an equivalent of about another 150-600 motorized vehicles a day. Thus, even with a projected 7.3%
annual growth, motorized traffic alone will be 1,700-6,900 vehicles a day by 2005, the year the new road
should fully open. This would reach or exceed the capacity of most sections of the existing road, and confirm
the need to expand its capacity either by investing in new highway or by enlarging the existing road.
6.     The proposed highway of 238 km from Nanning to Shuiren in the north will have two sections, one of
97 km between Shuiren and Duan (an undivided, two-lane, non access-controlled Class 2 highway) and the
other of 141 km from Duan to Nanning (a divided, four-lane, access-controlled Class 1 toll highway). The
Shuiren-Duan section will operate as an open toll highway, while the Duan-Nanning section will be a closed
toll road. It will include six interchanges, seven toll stations, two service areas, two parking areas and three
facilities for highway administration and maintenance.
7.     The road will be an important part of the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS), connecting the
relatively poor land-locked provinces of Guizhou, Yunnan, Sichuan and the city of Chongqing to the southern
seaport of Beihai and Fangcheng in Guangxi province and Zhanjiang in Guangdong province. The project will
promote inter-city and inter-provincial trade, and stimulate economic development in the interior of the
province, reducing its relative under-development (when compared with provinces on the eastern coast).
Although other provinces will also benefit, since the route to the deep-water port will be shorter, faster and
less-costly than the present one-via the Yangtze river to Shanghai-the main poverty impacts should be in the
five administrative regions of Guangxi through which the highway will pass. These benefits will be



Page 22                                                                Project Appraisal Document
Annex 2: Poverty Alleviation Impacts                               China: Guangxi Highway Project
supplemented by the Highway Network Improvement component, as well as by local road improvements in the
poor counties through which the highway will pass; these proposed activities will be carried out and partially
financed by the local communities.
Target Beneficiary Population
8.     The proposed highway will pass through and directly benefit relatively poor communities in four
counties (Du'an, Mashan, Dahua and Wuming) as well as in Hechi City, close to the starting point of the
highway at Shuiren-with a combined population of over 2.4 million. Another four poor counties, with over
1.1 million residents, will also benefit, although the highway will not directly pass through them. Average per
capita income in the five communities was U$410 in 1998, while in the four counties, it was about U$730.
Hechi City had the highest per capita income, over U$880, while Du'an and Mashan had the lowest--under
U$175.
Poor Access Impedes Growth
9.     The main impediment to economic growth in this mountainous region is the lack of road access to
local, regional, provincial and intemational markets. The present road density of Guangxi province is 21.6
km/100 km,2 ranking Guangxi 20h out of 26 provinces; in the counties that will benefit from the highway, the
density is even lower (except Wuming, which is higher because of its proximity to Nanning). Such limited
access forces many communities to rely on subsistence agriculture, as they cannot easily travel to local markets
where they could sell their produce or purchase raw materials. The province is already engaged on a vigorous
program to connect the remaining 30% of villages and one last town to the paved road network, facilitating
access to local markets. At present, the only road from this part of the province to Nanning is a precarious one
of Class III variety, and there is no direct road access to other parts of the province. However, an expressway
runs from Nanning to the deepwater port of Fangcheng, and its extension to the port of Behai will soon be
completed. Nanning is also well connected to Guangdong and Hong Kong by railway and waterway.
10.    The total road distance from Hechi to Nanning will be reduced by almost 34 km (about one eighth),
while that from Du'an by more than 25 km and from Wuming, the closest city to Nanning, by about 3 km.
Even more important, travel times and costs will be reduced: For example, because of poor roads, a round-trip
joumey from Wuming to Nanning cannot be made in one day. This problem is important to Wuming's
economy, since it has impressive tourist sites that cannot attract many visitors, although it is close to Nanning.
However, this will change once the highway is open and the trip can be made in just one hour's drive.
11.    The proposed highway, together with the locally funded rural road developments, will largely resolve
the accessibility barriers to growth of a significant part of one of the poorest regions of China. However, social
and economic development in the counties of the project area varies considerably, because of the different
topography and natural environment; thus, the highway will affect the counties differently.
Other Expected Social Benefits
12.    The basic data for the estimate for increase education and health care opportunities were collected
from the current number of school age children and population who needed hospital care in each county in the
table. It was assumed that by improving in road accessibility an additional 10% of school age children and sick
people will benefit from easier access to school and hospital. The same principal applied for the increase job
opportunities, i.e. population in the working age group (16-50) will benefit from easier access to other job
markets, further away from their village communities.
Hechi City and Prefecture
13.   In Hechi prefecture, more than 87% of the land contains mountains over 500 meters high, while about
5% is covered by water and less than this consists of arable highland. Restricted by these conditions and its
lack of intemal communications and accessibility to outside markets, the State Council lists Hechi as one of
China's 18 poverty areas. Of its 11 counties, nine were declared extreme poverty under national poverty
category and two under provincial category. Of the towns, 97 are considered poor, and 477 villages are



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 23
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                  Annex 2: Poverty Alleviation Impacts
exceptionally poor. At present, about 169,100 people live below the poverty line, 467 administrative villages
are not linked by highways and 469 villages have no electric power.
14.    The two main obstacles to growth are the lack of water and access to markets, with 467 villages not
linked by all-weather roads. Because no highway exists, fanners have to carry produce and related items to the
market on their shoulders, or on horseback. These trips are arduous and some perishable products get to
market with much damage and price reduced.
15.   In the parts of the county with all-weather roads, chestnuts, bananas, pomelos, oranges, pears, longans
and persimmons have become cash crops, and farmers are breeding goats, pigs, chickens and fish. In 1998, the
total output of fruits in Hechi prefecture was 121,000 tons, and because local markets for these products are
now saturated, almost 90% are sold in Guizhou, Chongqing, Sichuan, Guangdong, Nanning and Liuzhou. In
the same year, farmers exported 12,500 head of cattle, 170,000 goats, 52,000 pigs, and 563,000 poultry, mostly
to Nanning. However, transport costs to markets for the fruit and animals are high, and it is doubtful if farmers
can profit from increased production unless they are reduced. Moreover, in the case of the live animals, rapid
access to markets is vital, so they can arrive in peak condition and the farmers command high prices. The
proposed highway will both reduce transport costs and raise the market price of live exports (because they will
arrive in better condition), increasing their profitability and encouraging farmers to expand production.
16.    Hechi prefecture also has large reserves of minerals; the sector employs about 100,000 in extracting
and processing them. In 1998, mining and related industries accounted for 54% of the gross industrial output
value and for 45% of Hechi's revenue. Although minerals are transported out by rail, poor road access to the
rail terminal makes exploitation of most minerals uneconomic. Thus, the proposed highway will improve
accessibility to the Hechi terminal , reduce the costs of inputs to ore excavation, and allow industries to expand
extraction.
Du'an Yao Autonomous County
17.    By 1998, the county's highway density was only 17.24km/l00km2, which is less than the already low
provincial average. Seventy-seven administrative villages are not linked by all-weather roads, and even for the
many that are, the roads only reach the village centers, leaving most residents with narrow winding paths.
18.    Du'an does not produce enough grains to be self-sufficient and needs to import 4-8 months' supply,
depending on the weather. Since import costs are high, grains are grown on marginally productive land,
although it would be better suited for cultivating fruits. As most villages have all-weather roads, the remaining
barrier to lowering transport costs is the lack of an adequate road to Nanning; because of its high gradients and
a poor surface (all of which raise transport costs substantially), travel is slow and transit times uncertain. Even
under the best conditions, it takes a truck four hours to go from Du'an to Nanning, and congestion usually adds
a fifth. However, the proposed highway will bring Nanning within two hours by car and 2.5 hours by truck.
19.    One of the county's main products is limestone: at present, there are three cement factories with an
annual production capacity of 326,000 tons, but only 96,400 tons were produced in 1998. Again, the main
reason production is constrained is the high transport cost. For example, cement brings 210 yuan/ton in the
local market, yielding a profit of 10 yuan/ton (production costs are 200 yuan per ton); but when it is transported
and sold in Nanning, it brings 240 yuan/ton. However, as it costs 50 yuan/ton to transport it to Nanning, the
result is a loss of 10 yuan/ton. Nevertheless, because demand in the local market is saturated, enterprises are
producing cement to sell in Nanning, just to keep the staff employed and cover their marginal production
costs-which obviously cannot be sustained. However, producers estimate that the transport charges of cement
per ton from Du'an to Nanning could be reduced to 30 yuan/ton once the highway is open, as transit times will
be lower and larger trucks can be used; at this point, production would be sustainable and output could be
expanded.
20.    Another important activity in Du'an is livestock production (especially pigs), for which
inputs-including pellet feed and grains-are transported from Liuzhou, Nanning and Guigang. If their
transport costs, which make up more than half of production costs, can be reduced, farmers will be encouraged
to produce more for commercial purposes.



Page 24                                                              Project Appraisal Document
Annex 2: Poverty Alleviation Impacts                             China: Guangxi Highway Project
21.    Du'an contains mineral resources--manganese, phosphorus, marble, dolomite and limestone. The
phosphorus is used to produce phosphate fertilizer, which is of higher quality than that produced in Guizhou.
However, the best prospects for new mineral production come from the proven reserve of 3 million m3 of high
quality dolomite. The main constraint to exploiting it is the lack of road capacity to Nanning-from which it
could be transported by road, rail or waterway to the eastern provinces and to Guangxi's ports for export.
Unlike Hechi, Du'an does not have a viable rail link. Thus, for mineral extraction to be profitable, the industry
needs an incongested road on which large trucks can operate at low costs, which the proposed highway will
provide. Manufacturing enterprises, which need to reduce transport times in order to lower inventory costs,
will similarly benefit.
Mashan County and Dahua County
22.    The Mashan section of the proposed SNH will run between the towns of Mashan and Dahua (which
the Government considers poor) and the two segments-of 6 km and 16 km-will complete the connection.
Although the SNH will only pass through Mashan, the road is expected to help alleviate poverty in both
county. The two counties contain 34 towns, 305 administrative villages and 5,400 village groups. Of these,
111 administrative villages, or 36% of the total, are not linked by all-weather highways.
23.    The counties combined population of 905,426 (1998 figures), of which 87% are Zhuang, Yao and
Miao ethnic groups, live under difficult conditions: Over half the land is mountainous and the climate severe.
These severe natural condition are aggravated by man-made problems. For example, after two large-scale
hydroelectric stations (Dahua and Yantan) were completed, more than 160 km2 of land were submerged, which
destroyed 16 towns and 56 administrative villages, and displaced 92,000 residents. Since resettlement practices
at the time consisted of moving people uphill, many farmers had to relinquish productive for unproductive
land; as a result, 82,000 were forced into poverty. In addition, the reservoir submerged roads, cutting off
access between villages and from villages to main highways.
24.    Mashan County was once rich in forests, but the 1958 policy of stimulating small-scale steel
production led to clearing 5,333 hectares of woodlands, thereby decreasing forest coverage to only 7.6%; and,
continued indiscriminate cutting has reduced the figure to just 6.7% of the total area. Thus, over a long period,
vegetation in the mountains of both counties has been seriously destroyed, leaving barren slopes and bald
peaks, few trees and no soil to sustain grass or crop production. Moreover, because few areas were forested, the
flow of rivers decreased, irrigated farmland was reduced by 4,866 hectares and the proportion of stone desert
reached 24 hectares/km.2
25.    However, Mashan and Dahua are still rich in many minerals including coal, talcum powder, quartzite,
limestone, ilmenite, diabase and marble, which can be developed once the highway opens. Already, plans exist
to increase the annual coal output to 100,000 tons, talcum powder to 13,000 tons, ilmenite to 35,000 tons and
dressed stone to 10,000 m.3 Further, Dahua County administration intends to build the county into an
important processing base of aluminum and aluminum ingots.
26.    Together, the two counties could export 340,000 tons of industrial products, 133,000 tons of fruits and
vegetables, and 300,000 goats a year. However, at present, only a congested Class III highway links the
counties with Nanning and Hechi, which makes exporting many food and mineral products uneconomic. As
with the case of Du'an County, the highway will benefit the population by reducing the cost of inputs and
raising profits from the sale of products in more distant markets: The most promising are cement, ginger,
cucumbers and pepper. For example, the market price for cement in Nanning is about 30% higher than in
Mashan, while the price of various foods can be 10 times higher. As current transport costs are so high, the
greater prices do not translate into more profits; but, with the dramatically reduced transit times and potentially
lower transport costs, production should be profitable.
27.    As Mahsan and Dahua are in the middle section of the proposed highway, they stand to benefit the
most: The distance from Mashan to Nanning will be reduced by almost 30% and to Hechi by almost 40%.
Travel time from Mashan and Dahua to Nanning will be shortened from over three hours to a little over one
hour, and to Hechi, it will be halved.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 25
China: Guangxi Highway Project                               Annex 2: Poverty Alleviation Impacts
Wuming County
28.    Wuming, with a population of 648,000, 86% of whom are the Zhuang ethnic group, is one of the more
developed counties of Guangxi and includes 16 towns and 213 villages, all connected by all-weather paved
roads. Highway density is low (21km/lOOkm2 in 1998), but highest in the project area. No water, air transport
or railway links exist, making highways the only transport mode in the county.
29.    Wuming was once a provincial transport hub but when the Nanning to Kunming railway was built and
the Yiliu highway connected to the Nanliu super-highway, Wuming's importance shrank dramatically. Thus,
authorities hope the Shuinan highway, with 62 km and three connections, will reshape it as a transport center
and offer it a new chance for economic development.
30.    Manufacturing of light industry especially cigarettes, sugar, starch and building materials is the core of
Wuming's economy. It produces 35,000 tons of sugar, 4,000 tons of ethyl alcohol, and over 8,000 tons of
fertilizer, while the second largest starch factory in Guangxi produces 25,000 tons of starch and 13,000 tons of
alcohol a year. The state-owned cement company produces 240,000 tons of ordinary silicate cement and
50,000 tons of white cement a year, some of which is exported to Vietnam. In additional, fruit processing
plants specialize in sub-tropical varieties such as longan, lychee and mango. These industries depend on
continuing good transport links for their inputs and access to markets to remain financially viable and justify
expansion.
31.    The highway will mainly affect agro-industry, animal production and tourism, as Wuming has a well
developed agro-industrial base formed by grains, sugar, fruits, yams, and animal husbandry: Products are
exported to Guangdong, Fujian, Shanghai, Sichuan, Guizhou and Hubei. Its exported meats accounted for 46%
of Nanning's consumption, and pigs were exported to Sichuan, Anhui, Guangdong, Beihai and Vietnam.
Further development of agriculture will depend on increasing highway capacity: At present, transporting fruit
to Nanning requires more than 150 one-way truck trips every day. Thus, with the new road and added capacity,
output is expected to double within five years.
32.    Wuming also offers tourist attractions such as Daming Mountain and Yiling Cave, since the latter is
only 17 km away from Nanning: In 1998, for example, tourism revenues amounted to 0.32% of GDP.
However, transport is the key constraint to further growth, since congested roads from Nanning make it
difficult for tourists to reach the sites easily. To promote the industry, the strategy is to include Daming
Mountain, ancient parks and Yiling Cave into three main tours; the three exits from the proposed highway will
make these tours possible within one day's travel from Nanning. Further, when the 15 km highway is built
from Daming Mountain to the Fucheng exit on the Shuinan highway, the distance between Wuming town and
the mountain sunumit will be reduced from its current 100 km, travel from Nanning will require less than two
hours, and a one-day round trip will be quite feasible.



Page 26                                                                Project Appraisal Document
Annex 3: Project Description                                       China: Guangxi Highway Project
Annex 3: Project Description
China: Guangxi Highway Project
Component 1: Highway Capacity Expansion-US$406.7 million (includes contingencies)
Construction of the Shuiren-Nanning Highway (SNH): US$381.3 million
1.     Construction of the 238 km Shuiren to Nanning highway (SNH) is the project's main component. The
SNH is divided into two sections: One is 97 km between Shuiren and Duan (an undivided, two-lane, non
access-controlled Class 2 highway) and the other is 141 km from Duan to Nanning (a divided, four-lane,
access-controlled toll highway). The proposed SNH is a critical part of the national trunk highway system
(NTHS), as it connects the poor, land-locked provinces of Guizhou, Yunnan and Sichuan to the southem
coastal cities of Fancheng and Beihai in Guangxi and Zhanjiang in Guangdong provinces. According to the
MOC's design standard, the Class 2 mountainous Shuiren-Duan section should be 9m wide (pavement) on a
12m subgrade. However, due to anticipated traffic volumes, safety conditions and geographic difficulties in
widening roads in the mountains while remaining open to traffic, it was decided the section should be 9m wide
on a 15m subgrade, with a drainage ditch and bench at the foot of slope.
The SNH will operate as an open toll highway in the Class 2 Shuiren-Duan section and a closed toll
highway in the Duan-Nanning section. It will include seven interchanges, seven toll stations, two service areas,
three parking areas and three facilities for highway administration and maintenance. The component will also
supply and install electrical and mechanical facilities (tolling, monitoring, telecommunications and lighting
systems).
Equipment: US$13.2 million
2.     Equipment would be used to: (a) maintain national and provincial highways (including expressways);
(b) support laboratories and quality control work; and (c) strengthen the GCD and its relevant agencies and
institutions. The equipment list, which includes cost estimates, is available in the project file.
Supervision of construction: US$12.2 million
3.     Based on the experience gained from on-going Bank-financed highway projects in China, a combined
team of local engineers, technicians and other personnel and intemational consultants would be created to
supervise the construction of the SNH. The foreign engineers would be integrated with the supervisory
organization and would help establish procedures at all levels, including on-site inspections and laboratory
testing. They would also train local staff through formal sessions and on-the-job training. Five intemational
experts for a total of about 184 person-months are envisaged to supervise construction, of which four person-
months will be for training and 10 for contingencies. To supervise 10 ICB civil works contracts, one ICB
contract for E&M facilities, and one NCB contract for buildings, nine resident engineers' offices will be
created with 268 staff. The estimated domestic supervision input would come to about 7,072 person-months.
Component 2: Highway Network Improvement & Maintenance Program (HNIMP)-US$64.7 million
4.     Objective. As Bank investment on SNH will require large amount of counterpart funding from
Guangxi. To ensure that such investment will not over-burden the small budget for rehabilitation and
maintenance of the province's lower class roads, HNIMP was designed to support such work for the provincial
highway network. In particular, the program is focusing on road sections that directly link to the SNH and the
relatively poor areas.
5.     Selection of road sections. Roads were selected based on a review of approximately 40 sections,
totaling 2,350 km, with the following criteria:
* The sections should link the poor to the developed areas of the province;
* They should be between Class II and IV;
* They must carry no less than 500 vehicles a day;
* Investments must be cost effective: Per capita investment below RMB 800;
* The economic rate of return for investments should be no less than 12%;
*  Other special reasons that justify the investment



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 27
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                        Annex 3: Project Description
6.     Based on these criteria, GCD screened 40 road sections, analyzed the eligible candidates and then
selected 10--considering the values of PQI, V/C and the EIRR for each. The EIRR ranged from 15%-30%
(Table 3A below); five are in the province's poverty areas (28 of Guangxi's 81 counties are classified as
national-level poverty counties); two are close to Beihai port which extends the service areas of the SNH; and
three are along NR 209 and NR324, which are part of the provincial trunk network.
7.    Implementation. The road sections will be packaged into nine contracts, with an average length of
about 26-kmn and a total cost of about US$64.7million, of which the Bank loan would finance about 30%. All
contracts will be procured through national competitive bidding (NCB) procedures. A group will be
established within GHAB to supervise implementation and will be assisted by subgroups at the county level
that will investigate and supervise road construction in their areas. The sections will be improved from 2000-
2003.
8.     Monitoring and performance indicators. The average pavement quality index (PQI) of the provincial
highway network will be used to monitor this component, with higher quality expected each year. Monitoring
values will be estimated. The Bank and GCD will review maintenance activities during the yearly supervision
mission, and results will be compared with those agreed to in the previous year. On the basis of each year's
results, the maintenance program for the next year will be agreed upon, along with the projected average PQI.
Also, maintenance to be partly financed with the Bank loan will be monitored through the usual progress
reports.
Component 3: Highway Safety Component (Black-Spot Improvements}-US$2.9 million
Introduction
9.     Guangxi authorities are concerned about highway safety: In 1997, there were5,672 accidents on
Guangxi roads and 2,079 people were killed. The rate of 18.32 deaths per 10,000 vehicles is about 2-3 times
higher than that of Western European and North American countries. Thus, the situation is already serious, and
due to rapidly increasing motorization and vehicle use, highway safety is becoming an even more serious issue
to be addressed.
10.   In Guangxi, as in other provinces, responsibility for highway safety rests with GCD and the traffic
police. GCD is responsible for all aspects of hardware components, including geometric designs, signing,
marking and installing other safety measures, while the police handle driver and pedestrian education, law
enforcement and administration.
Proposed program
I1.    Experience with highway safety components in past Bank-financed highway projects has shown how
difficult it is to stage a joint action between the traffic police and GCD. Thus, it was agreed this project would
include a relatively modest, pilot safety component that primarily focuses on improving highway black-spots.
Selection of black spots
12.    The proposed black-spot improvement program will include 12 locations and be carried out within the
existing right-of-way. The locations were selected with the following criteria:
* Accidents are frequent and serious;
* Local authorities had not planned improvements for the next few years;
* Before and after analyses could be easily conducted;
* Traffic volume is high (more than 2,000 veh/day).
13.    After the first screening, 20 locations were selected from the provincial highway network, which were
later reduced to 12.
Implementation
14.    Engineering solutions for the black-spot treatments will cost an estimated RMB20.2 million. Detailed
designs of the first batch of civil works, including installing traffic safety facilities, were completed by
November 30, 1999 and the entire program will be implemented from 2000-2005. Work on the 12 locations
will be grouped into about eight contract packages, and procured through national competitive bidding (NCB).



Page 28                                                                   Project Appraisal Document
Annex 3: Project Description                                         China: Guangxi Highway Project
After the pilot is completed, the black-spot work will continue as a part of normal traffic safety activities on a
permanent basis. The personnel who participated in the pilot program will be responsible for training staff at
the prefecture level.
Component 4: Institutional Strengthening/Capacity Building-US$2.6 million
Training
15.    In a rapidly developing society such as China, training personnel at all levels is essential; given the
recent governmental reforms and decentralization, a new cadre of provincial and local authorities will need to
be trained. Design, research institutes and technical schools under GCD all need technical improvements, new
ideas and more modem equipment. Therefore, training will be systematic, especially as GCD will soon be
reorganized. The IST component was also built on the outcomes of World Bank-financed TA reviews that aim
to analyze highway sector training activities both in China and abroad and systematize follow-up and
evaluation (of the training) in the highway sector. Organizations to be strengthened are listed in Table 3B.
Technical assistance study
16.    The following two studies were selected for the project: One is on the aesthetic design of the slopes
and environmental protection, while the other is on highway construction in poor areas and its effect on
economic development.
17.    GCD had submitted an IST report, available in the project files, that details each study with respect to
contents and scope, direct counterpart unit, duration and estimated budget (both in local currency and in US$).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                     Page 29
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                                                                                             Annex 3: Project Description
Annex 3f Table A: Summary of Highway Network Improvement and Maintenance Program
(HNIMP)
Current Condition                            Improvements              EIRR     Total    Construction         Note
No.   Highway    Length  Class  Traffic   Pave-   Sub-  Pavement Congestion  Class   Sub-   Pave-   Pave-                    Cost        Period
(road Code)  (KM)           Volume  ment  grade Width (M)  Degree                  grade   ment    ment               (million
(ADT) Quality Width                 (V/C)            Width   Width   type                 RMB)
(PQI)  (M)                                    (M)    (M)
Total:  236  I                   _                                                                      23.5    470.58
i  G324 Line       65       3      913     43      8.5       7         0.83      3       8.5      7     asphalt    25.0    55.25      2000-2001    poor area
Bose-Tianlin
(kI 977.26-
2047.26)
2  G323 Line        18      4    3,022      46      9        6         1.38       3      8.5      7    Concrete             45.00     2001-2002    poor area
Ping Cun-Jiu
Yu (k1258-
k1276)__ __
3  S20324 Dahua    16       4    1,835      50      9       7.5        0.50       2      12       9                 18.3    52.03     2000-2001    poor area
Linking Road
4  S20324           4       4    1,975      52      9       7.5        0.50       2      12       9                 19.9    13.00     2000          poor area
Mashan
Linking Road
5  G209 Line        11      3    3,923      51      11       8         1.17       2      11       9                25.8      25.3     2001-2002    Current pavement
Qintang-Wuli                                                                                                                                    surface seriously
(k3137-k3178)                                                                                                                                   damaged
6  G209 Line        30      3    3,092      47     8.5       6         1.17       3      8.5      7                30.3    60.00      2002-2003    Current pavement
Wuli-Heng                                                                                                                                       surface seriously
County                                                                                                                                          damaged
(k30148-k3178)
7  G209 Line        20      3    5,448      61      11       7         3.34       2      11       9                17.5    50.00      2002-2003    Current pavement
Changle-Hepu                                                                                                                                    surface seriously
(k33 10-k3330)       I                                                                                                                          damaged
8  G324 Line        37      2    5,287      52      15       12        1.38       2      15       12               26.9    81.00      2003-2004    Current pavement
Shinan-                                                                                                                                         surface seriously
Guigang                                                                                                                                         damaged
(kl510-kI551)                                                              _
9  G325 Line        15      3    6,755      60      15       9         1.79       2      15       12               22.0    45.00      2004-2005    Current pavement
Wujia-Hepu                                                                                                                                      surface seriously
(k644-K659)     _ I         _                                                                                                                   damaged
10 S20323 Line      20      3    4,133      42      12       7         2.39       2       12      9                 28.5    44.00     2003-2004    poor area
Wuming-
Luoyu (k I0-
_ _ _ k 3 0)     _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _          _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
Note 1: The above I 0 highway sections require no additional right-of-way.
Note 2: Each improvement involves widening and strengthening the existing roadway, modifying the gradient, and reconstructing the base course and pavement



Page 30                                                                                                                        Project Appraisal Document
Annex 3: Project Description                                                                                                China: Guangxi Highway Project
Annex 3, Table B: Summary of IST Plan
(In thousand RMB/USD)
Organization       Training in China          Seminar & Lecture in China         Training Abroad              Study tour Aboard           Total Cost
to     be   _ _ _ _                                _ _ _ _    _ _ _ __                                  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
strengthened  Person    Person-    RMB      Person    Person-    RMB    Person   Person-         USD      Person    Person-    USD    RMB    USD
month                         month                          month                          month
GCD          59        84      546.00      75       18.75     121.88      25       34.5      317.40      9         7       67.50   667.88   384.90
PMO          26      39.5      256.75      27        6.75      43.88      11       16.0      147.20      7         5       52.50   300.63   199.70
PIDRI        39       64.5      419.25     70       17.50      113.75      11      13.0      119.60      1          1       7.50   533.00   127.10
GICA         80       132       858.00     40       10.00      65.00       12      15.0      138.00      I          1       7.50   923.00   145.50
GHAB         30        50       325.00      38       9.50       61.75      14      22.0       202.40      1         1        7.50   368.75  209.90
PQCC         15        30       195.00      15       3.75      24.38        7      10.0       92.00                                 219.38   92.00
SRI         25        50       325.00     15        3.75      24.38       2        2.0       18.40      1          1       7.50   349.38    18.40
HGHAB         18        36       234.00     50       12.50      81.25        8       9.5       87.40                                 315.25    94.90
GCS          6         6       39.00       20       5.00       32.50       3       6.0        55.20                                 71.50   55.20
GNS          4          4       26.00      20        5.00      32.50       1       4.0        18.40                                 58.50    18.40
Total       302       496       3,224     370       92.50     601.27      93      132.0       1,196     20         16      150.00  3,825.27 1,346.00
GCD:       Guangxi Communications Department                             PQCC:         Project Quality Control Center
PMO:       Project Management Office                                     SRI:          Scientific Research Institute
PIDRI:    Planning, Investigation, and Design Research Institute         HGHAB:       High Grade Highway Administration Bureau
ICA:       Infrastructure Construction Administration                    GCS:         Guangxi Communications School
GHAB:    Guangxi Highway Administration Bureau                           GNS:         Guangxi Navigation School



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 31
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                        Annex 4: Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4: Estimated Project Costs
(November 1999 prices)
China: Guangxi Highway Project
Million Yuan                        Million US$
Domestic       Foreign       Total      Domestic  Foreign      Total
1. Works
a) Civil Works
i) Expressway           1,131.00         754.00     1,885.00     136.26      90.84    227.10
ii) Class 2 Highway       444.00         296.00       740.00      53.49      35.67     89.16
b) Building                  37.50           24.90        62.40       4.51       3.00     7.51
c) E&M Facilities             17.70          70.70        88.40      2.14        8.52     10.66
d) HNIMP                    282.50          188.10      470.60      34.05      22.67     56.72
e) Black Spots Improvement    12.90           8.50        21.40       1.56       1.02     2.58
Subtotal                  1,925.60        1,342.20    3,267.80     232.01     161.72    393.73
2. Supervision of Construction  68.00          29.00        97.00       8.20       3.50     11.70
3. Equipment                    15.30           90.50      105.80       1.84      10.90     12.74
4. Training                      3.80           16.60       20.40       0.46       2.00      2.46
5. Studies                       0.90           3.30         4.20       0.10       0.40      0.50
Total                     2,013.60       1,481.60     3,495.20     242.61     178.52    421.13
6. Physical (10%)              192.50          134.30      326.70      23.20      16.10     39.30
7. Price                       139.60          97.30       236.90       9.70       6.80     16.50
Total Contingencies         332.10         231.50       563.60      32.90      22.90     55.80
8. Land Acquisition
and Resettlement          380.00            0.0        380.00      45.78       0.0      45.78
9. Interest During Construction  349.50          0.0       349.50      42.11       0.0      42.11
10. Front-end Fee                0.0           16.6         16.60       0.0        2.00      2.00
Grand Total               3,075.20       1,729.70     4,804.90     363.40     203.42    566.82



Page 32                                                               Project Appraisal Document
Annex 5: Economic Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                   China: Guangxi Highway Project
Annex 5: Economic Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
China: Guangxi Highway Project
Background
1.     The economic evaluation covers the following two components:
a) New construction of a 238 km Shuiren-Nanning highway (SNH);
b) Rehabilitation and maintenance of 10 provincial roads (totaling 236 kin) in the poverty areas under
the Highway Network Improvement and Maintenance Program (HNIMP).
2.     The analysis is based on updated data and projections of traffic, vehicle operating costs (VOC),
economic project costs and transport user benefits. The main inputs to and assumptions for the evaluation are:
a) Capital investment and maintenance costs, revised to reflect November 1999 prices;
b) The benefit stream, also reflecting November 1999 prices, comprising savings in VOC, travel times
saved through reduced congestion on the existing route (for the SNH evaluation), and lower accident
costs;
c) An assumed project life of 20 years, the capital investment period 1999 - 2006, depending on the
road being evaluated;
d) Full benefits accruing on SNH in July 2004; HNIMP from 2002-2004 (depending on the roads being
considered).
3.     This annex contains three parts. Part I is the econornic evaluation of SNH; Part II is the economic
evaluation of the 10 provincial roads under the HNIMP, and Part III is the overall economic evaluation,
including a probable risk analysis.
PART I: SHUIREN-NANNING HIGHWAY
4.     For the evaluation, the SNH was divided into three sections:
Length of the         Length of the
Existing road (km)      Highway (km)
Shuiren - Daxing                  100.0                   66.6
Daxing- Duan                       32.0                   30.2
Duan - Nanning                     165.0                  141.0
Total                    297.0                  237.8
Highway Expansion Plan -Justification for Investment
5.     Overview. Guangxi acts as a bridge linking the landlocked provinces (Sichuan, Guizhou and Yunan) to
the coastal provinces (Guangxi and Guangdong). The proposed highway is part of the 1,867 km highway
(national route 210) linking four provinces (Sichuan, Guizhou, Guangxi and Guangdong) and is the most
important route connecting the inland provinces in the southwest of China to the seaport. The terrain north and
west of the province is mountainous. The Xijiang River crosses from west to east, covering over 80% of the
provincial land area. The cities of Guangzhou and Hong Kong are downstream. Nanning is a provincial capital
located on the banks of the Xijiang River. The city of Shuiren is at the northern boarder, near Guizhou province.
6.     Part of the existing highway is of very low quality and has been identified as one of three major national
routes that urgently need to be improved in the country's current five-year development plan. Construction on the
northern and southern sections has already begun, through domestic funding. Thus, the proposed component



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 33
China: Guangxi Highway Project                     Annex 5: Economic Cost Benefit Analysis Sunmnary
would build only the missing portions. Once completed, the highway will promote economic development in the
four provinces, particularly benefiting those who live in the remote mountainous/hilly areas, as their access to
education and health services will be improved--which can be quantified but not valued in the analysis.
Level and Timing of Investment
7.     Given its important role and the fact that the two other sections are nearly completed, the project is a top
priority in the provincial highway development plan.
8.     Except for 39 km near Nanning, the existing highway between Shuiren and Nanning is either a
Class III or Class IV, mixed traffic, all-purpose road without access control and can handle about 1,500-4,000
vehicles a day. Motorized traffic has increased by an average of 11.5% a year from 1990-1998 and by 1998
had reached 1,110-4,100 motorized vehicles a day, throughout its length. Non-motorized and other traffic
(such as bicycles, animal carts, small farm tractors and motorcycles) add the equivalent of another 150-600
motorized vehicles daily. Even with a modest projected 7.3% annual growth, motorized traffic along the
corridor will reach 1,700-6,900 vehicles a day by 2005, the year it is expected to open. This, depending on the
section, traffic volume will reach or exceed the capacity of the existing road. An economic assessment of the
optimum opening year of the highway shows that some sections have already passed their technical capacity
and need to be reconstructed as quickly as possible.
Section 1         Section 2         Section3
Shuiren-          Daxing-            Duan-
Daxing            Duan              Nanning
Road class (old road / new road)     IV / II           III / II        II, III / Expressway
Road condition (old road / new road)  Poor/good         Poor/good        Fair/good
Terrain                              Mountainous        Hilly            Hilly
Capacity (AADT (old road / new road)  1,500/ 7,500      4,000/ 7,500     5,500/ 55,000
Automobile traffic - 1998 (AADT)         1,110             1,835             4,080
Optimum opening                          2003              2007              2003
Proposed opening                         2005              2005              2005
Highway Corridor Traffic
9.     Estimates of base year traffic were made using routine traffic counts and comprehensive origin and
destination (O/D) surveys in 1993 and 1998. Projections of base, generated and diverted traffic were made for 29
zones according to a conventional growth model. Since local economic growth is expected to continue but also
decline, it was estimated that traffic growth in the corridor will be 7.3% a year from 1998-2005, 5.8% from 2005-
2015, and 4.4% from 2015- 2025. Traffic growth rates are summarized as follows:
Annual Traffic Growth Rate
Car      Bus & Truck    Average
Actual:     1990-1998            17.8%        10.7%         11.5%
Projected:   1998-2005           9.3%          6.9%          7.3%
2005-2015            7.5%         5.5%          5.8%
2015-2025            6.0%         4.0%          4.4%



Page 34                                                               Project Appraisal Document
Annex 5: Economic Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                   China: Guangxi Highway Project
10.    Alternatives. In the feasibility study, three routes were considered-for the west, east and central areas.
Costs, benefits, service to local cities and their relationship to future economic development were compared and
the east route was chosen because it has the lowest cost and would not create added environmental or
resettlement issues, when compared with the other two (details are in the feasibility study reports available in the
project files).
Expected Traffic on the SNH
11.    The new highway is scheduled to open in the second half of 2004. Based on information provided by
the O/D survey and feasibility study, the diversion ratios were calculated by using financial VOC for road
users as an independent variable. Also considered were the effects of the proposed tolls on the new highway
and on the existing road, travel distances, and experience from other recently Bank-financed highways in
China. The result of the diversion estimate shows that 65%-75% of motorized corridor traffic could be
diverted to the new highway, depending on the road section and year the SNH opens. Sensitivity tests with
lower diversion rates show the SNH would still be justified with an average diversion rate of about 50%,
which has been exceeded in all toll highways financed by the Bank in China.
12.    Traffic generated is assumed to be 10% of the basic traffic. Although a railway line runs between Hechi
and Nanning (416 km), no traffic diversion from the railway to the new highway has been taken into account.
There is no direct railway links Shuiren and Nanning: The nearest railway for Shuiren is in Hechi city, which
is 28 km away. The railway carries mainly long-distance bulk freight with different O/D pair from those using
the highway. Most of the railway bulk freight would not be moved to the highway, even though travel times
are reduced, because the latter has higher tariffs (rail tariffs are about YO.08 per ton-km compared with about
YO.42 per ton-km for road transport). The highway corridor traffic forecast is summarized as follows:
Normal Traffic, by Sections (AADT)
Section 1       Section 2         Section 3
Shuiren-Daxing   Daxing-Duan   Duan-Nanning
Existing road:
1990                         715             786             1,430
1995                         949            1,529            2,506
1996         Actual          870            1,993            3,424
1997                       1,083           2,070             3,982
1998                       1,112            1,835            4,079
2000                       1,194            2,079            4,807
2005        Forecast         529            1,013             1,682
2015                         723            1,417            2,063
2025                         753            1,572             1,572
The new highway:
2005                       1,169            1,922             5,194
2015                       2,258           3,642             10,218
2025                       3,805           6,000             17,576
Economic Costs
13.    Financial costs were converted to economic costs by eliminating price contingencies, interest
payments during construction and taxes, and by applying shadow prices to each section of the new highway
(1.04, 1.03 and 1.02 for Sections 1, 2 and 3, respectively). The overall average shadow price is 1.03 and the
overall economic cost is 84.4% of the financial cost.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 35
China: Guangxi Highway Project                     Annex 5: Economic Cost Benefit Analysis Sumrnary
Economic Benefits
14.    The economic analysis includes the benefits derived from: (a) VOC savings (summarized below) on
the new highway for normal and generated traffic, (b) time savings through relieved congestion on the existing
road, and (c) lower accident costs. Benefits from reduced congestion were quantified. The value of passenger
time savings was estimated at Y 1.0 per passenger-hour, base on updated values from a recent report on
feasibility study methodology for highways in China (Rust PPK. Australia Feasibility Study Methodology
Report, March 1996). The same source was also used for vehicle accident rates on different classes of roads.
The benefits of generated traffic were calculated using the standard demand curve analysis and an assumed
linear relationship between demand and travel costs over the relevant cost range.
Economic Vehicle Operating Costs (VOC)
(Yuan per 1000 vehicle-km)
Section 1                Section 2                Section 3
New road  Existing road  New road  Existing road  New road  Existing road
Car                578          948           560         928         514          647
Medium bus        1,333        2,294        1,190       2,121        1,083        1,479
Large bus         2,704        4,293        2,331       3,836        2,138        2,921
Small truck        995         1,361          865       1,197         793          927
Medium truck      1,123        1,588          945       1,370          876        1,063
Large truck       2,188        2,907        1,848       2,541        1,738        2,037
Tractor/trailer   3,988        5,164        3,298       4,386        3,147        3,645
Sample of Economic VOC Calculation for the New Highway (Section 3)
(Yuan per 1,000 vehicle -km)
Car    Medium    Large    Small  Medium   Large   Trailer/
Bus      Bus      Truck    Truck    Truck  Container
Fuel                       190       300       446      328       300       468       614
Tires                       35        35       130       55       130       480      1,073
Maintenance                189       304       452      314       324       473       648
Crew                        29        38        40       33        37        40        40
Depreciation                28        78       270       63        85       277       772
Subtotal           471       755      1,338      793       876     1,738     3,147
Time value of passengers    43       333       800
Total               514     1,083     2,138      793       876     1,738     3,147
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
15.    Total cost and benefit streams, economic internal rates of return (EIRR) and net present value (NPV)
for each section of the expressway were calculated. The overall EIRR for SNH was estimated at 16.4%. The
EIRR for each road section is summarized below:



Page 36                                                               Project Appraisal Document
Annex 5: Economic Cost Benefit Analysis Sumrmary                  China: Guangxi Highway Project
Economic Evaluation of SNH
NPV (12%,       Extra      Extra people  Minority as
EIRR  (%)      Million      children     attending      % of the
EIRR (%)  Million    attendin~    health        total local
school -     services     population
Shuiren-Daxing        16.9          298.9       26,500        13,200         80.3
Daxing-Duan           17.7          103.1       16,500         8,600         94.1
Duan-Nanning          16.2          844.0       37,200        28,200         63.6
WHOLE ROUTE           16.4         1,246.0      80,200        50,000
1/ Information was collected to establish baseline data on indirect benefits derived from improved access to
education and health care services. However, its quantifiable benefits were not included.
16.    The basic evaluation of the project, by section and on the whole, indicates the selected alignment is
economically viable; sensitivity tests with respect to higher costs, lower transport demand, zero value of time,
zero generated traffic benefits, and low diversion rates to the new highway maintain this position. An analysis
of the optimum year for opening the road showed that delaying completion by two years would reduce the
EIRR by about 3.0%.
Sensitivity Tests on the Economic Evaluation of SNH
NPV (12%,
EIRR(%)         Million Yuan)
Delay the completion to 2005              16.0            1,158.7
Zero value of time                        12.6             150.4
Zero generated traffic                    16.0            1,099.2
Lower traffic projection                  13.7             414.7
Less traffic diverted to new highway      13.8             495.0
Switching values                          %  increase
Cost increases reduce EIRR to 12%                   155%
Reduced benefits lower EIRR to 12%                   65%
17.    The sensitivity of the evaluation to variations in costs and benefits also indicates it is unlikely the
project's viability would fall below the minimum acceptable range--that is, an NPV of less than zero--by using
a 12% discount rate or an EIRR of less than 12%. The benefits would have to fall to under 50% of those in the
base case with no change in costs; the costs would have to increase to more than 1.55 times those of the base
costs, or the costs would have to increase by 25% and the benefits fall to 80% at the same time.
PART II: HIGHWAY NETWORK IMPROVEMENT AIND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM (HNIMP)
Selection of roads and their traffic
18.    GCD identified 40 sections of congested roads in Guangxi which need to be rehabilitated urgently. Of
these, 10 were selected for Bank financing under the project. The major criteria were: (a) the sections should
be part of the national or provincial network, (b) they should link the poor to the developed areas of the
province, (c) road traffic must be at least 500 AADT or higher, (d) the pavement must be severely damaged,
and (e) investment must be cost effective: per capita investment costs should be below RMB 800. The aim of
the component is to upgrade low-grade busy roads to Class 11 or Class III. The total length of the 10 roads is
236 km:



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 37
China: Guangxi Highway Project                    Annex 5: Economic Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Length (km)
1.  Bose - Tianlin road            65
2.  Pincun - Jiuxu road            18
3.  Dahua connecting road          16
4.  Mashan connecting road          4
5.  Qintang - Wuli road            11
6.  Wuli - Hengxian road           30
7.  Changle - Hepu road            20
8   Shinan - Guigang road          37
9.  Wujia - Hepu road              15
10.  Wuming - Luoxu road            20
Total                        236
19.    Based on actual traffic levels and local economic growth rates, traffic growth rates of the 10 sections
under the HNIMP component were estimated at 4% a year to 2005, 3% from 2005-2010, 2% from 2010-2015
and 1% thereafter. The maximum traffic capacity for the 10 roads was assumed to be under 7,000 AADT.
Economic Costs and Benefits
20.    Financial costs were converted to economic costs using the same method and factors as for SNH, and
produced the following results:
Financial and Economic Costs for HNIMP
(RMB million October 1999 prices)
Financial      Economic
1.    Bose-Tianlin road              55.25          39.63
2.    Pincun-Jiuxu road              45.00           32.27
3.    Dahua connecting road          52.03           37.32
4.    Mashan connecting road         13.00            9.32
5.    Qintang-Wuli road              25.30           18.13
6.    Wuli-Hengxian road             60.00           43.04
7.    Changle-Hepu road              50.00           35.87
8     Shinan-Guigang road            81.00           58.09
9.    Wujia-Hepu road                45.00           32.28
10.    Wuming-Luoxu road              44.00           31.57
Total                 470.58          337.52
21.   The principal evaluated benefits of the HNIMP would be reduced VOCs due to better road surfaces.
Also, the associated upgrading of road class would translate into higher traffic speeds. Together, these effects
would generate some added traffic, assumed to be 5% of the nornal traffic.
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
22.    The best estimates of EIRRs for the 10 highways under the HNIP range from 15.6% to 31.4%. The
overall EIRR and NPV (12%) are 24.3% and 247.1 million Yuan, respectively.



Page 38                                                               Project Appraisal Document
Annex 5: Economic Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                   China: Guangxi Highway Project
EIRR and NPV Summary for HNIMP Component
EIRR      NPV (12%,      Extra     Extra people  Minority as
(in %)     million      children    attending     % of the
(In %O)     Yuan)       attending     health      total local
school "'    services!'   population
1.   Bose - Tianlin road       26.5         44.4          5,200        3,000        28
2.   Pincun - Jiuxuroad         15.6          8.3          200          200         34
3.   Dahua connecting road      17.6         14.5         2,500        1,000        86
4.   Mashan connecting road     20.8  .       5.8         1,600         700         90
5.   Qintang - Wuli road       26.8          21.3         2,000         800         44
6.   Wuli - Hengxian road       31.4         64.7        4,500         1,500        35
7.   Changle- Hepu road        26.5          45.2         500          1,300        13
8    Shinan- Guigang road      24.0          51.7         800          600          15
9.   Wujia - Hepuroad           19.3         16.4          300          800          15
10.   Wuming - Luoxu road       29.5         44.0          2,000        1,000        90
Total             24.3        247.1        19,600       10,900         -
I/ Information was collected to establish baseline data on other social benefits derived from improved access to
education and health care. However, their values were not included in the analysis.
23.    The risks associated with the HNIMP are that traffic will grow more slowly than projected, that civil
works will be more expensive, and that savings in VOC will be lower. These risks were analyzed through
sensitivity tests and the evaluation results were found to be robust for all. For the project component to be
non-acceptable (i.e. an EIRR of less than 12% or a negative NPV), traffic growth would have to be negative,
civil works costs would have to increase by more than 214% or the VOCs would have to drop to about 46.5%
of their expected value.
PART III: THE OVERALL ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
Overall Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
24.    The overall EIRR (including SNH and HNIMP ) is 17.0% and the NPV (12%) is 1.49 billion Yuan.
Project Risks
25.    All sections of the SNH and roads included in the HNIMP show acceptable and robust economic
retums. Because the province has had reasonable experience constructing and operating expressway projects
since 1990, the technical risks of implementing the project are minimal. Physically, the only tangible risks are
that prolonged delays could occur in the course of implementation due to lack of experience in intemational
procurement procedures for civil works. This will be addressed through training and technical assistance for
staff in the early stages of the project.
Probabilistic Risk Analysis for Economic Evaluation of the SNH
26.    The sensitivity test has various limitations. For example, the test cannot detemnine the degree of
uncertainty. Thus, a probabilistic risk analysis using Monte Carlo techniques was carried out: Each uncertainty
factor was followed to vary at random between set limits and all uncertainty factors were allowed to change
simultaneously. Monte Carlo simulation provided probability distributions of the potential outcomes of
decisions. By analyzing these distributions, the risk associated with making various decisions (or probabilistic
risk analysis) was assessed. The product of the analysis was a judgment on the possible range of the decision
variables, and on the likelihood of each value within this range.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 39
China: Guangxi Highway Project                      Annex 5: Economic Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
27.    For the HNIMP component, since the higher EIRR and the lower capital investment (the sum of
capital costs for 10 roads under HNIMP only constitute 10% of the total capital investment), its economic
evaluation presents a relatively low risk. The probabilistic risk analysis for the project focused on the
construction of the SNH. The factors with the most uncertainty associated with the economic evaluation were
identified as: (a) traffic growth, (b) traffic diversion to the new highway, (c) the value of VOCs, (d) total
project investment, and (e) opening of the new highway delayed until after 2005. The results of probabilistic
risk analysis showed that the EIRR was 18.6% for the most likely scenario, 11.9% for the worst scenario and
25.2% for the best. The standard error of the mean was 0.4 %. Detailed results of the Monte Carlo test and
probabilistic risk analyses are in Appendix A of this annex and summarized as follows:
Summary of Probabilistic Risk Analysis
Range of EIRR         Most likely EIRR     Standard error of the
mean
Section 1          12.3% - 26.0%             18.9%                   0.4%
Section 2          14.6% - 27.2%             20.3%                   0.4%
Section 3          11.7% - 25.0%             18.3%                   0.4%
Total         11.9% - 25.2%              18.6%                   0.4%



Page 40                                                                          Project Appraisal Document
Annex 5: Economic Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                              China: Guangxi Highway Project
Annex 5, Table A: EIRR Simulation and Probabilistic Risk Analysis
Sum m ary:
Display Range is from 0.0% to 50.0% EIRR (n%)
Entire Range is from 0.4% to 61.9% EIRR (n%)
- After 1,010 Trials, the Std. Error ofthe Mean is 0.4%
Statistics:                          Value       Percentiles:
Trials                          1010
Mean                           19.5%                               Percentile    EIRR (in%)
Median                         18.6%                                     0%            0.4%
M ode                             ---                                   10%            4.8%
Standard Deviation             11.5%       Worst Scenario               20%            8.9%
Variance                        1.3%       .                         -30%            11.9%
Skewness                        0.54       Most Likely                  40%          15.3%
Kurtosis                        2.95       .---50%                                   18.6%
Coeff. of Variability           0.59       Best Scenario                60%          21.5%
Range Minimum                   0.4%       *                    7 -70%               25.2%
Range Maximum                 61.9%                                     80%          28.9%
Range Width                   61.4%                                     90%          34.6%
Mean Std. Error               0.36%                                    100%          61.9%
Forecast: Shuiren- Nanning Highway Project
1,010 Trials                     Frequency Chart                          10 Outliers
.024 -                                                                    24
-~.012.............................................12    -
.00 5
0.0%           12.5%          25.0 %          37.5%           50.0%
EIRR (in%)
Assumptions
Traffic Diversion                                Traffic Growth
Normal distribution with parameters:             Normal distribution with parameters:
Mean                  100.0%                     Mean                     100.0%
Standard Dev.           10.0%                    Standard Dev.              10.0%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity    Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity
Mean value in simulation was 100.1%              Mean value in simulation was 99.9%
VOC                                              Total Project Investment
Triangular distribution with parameters:         Triangular distribution with parameters:
Minimum                90.0%                     Minimum                   90.0%
Likeliest             100.0%                     Likeliest                100.0%
Maximum               110.0%                     Maximum                  110.0%
Selected range is from 90.0% to 110.0%           Selected range is from 90.0% to 110.0%
Mean value in simulation was 100.1%              Mean value in simulation was 100.2%



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 41
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                        Annex 6: Financial Summary
Annex 6: Financial Summary
China: Guangxi Highway Project
Preface
1.     The financial evaluation of the project consists of two parts: Part I relates to the revenue-eaming entity
and Part II to the non-revenue earning entity. Since the SHN is designed as a toll road and is the only road in the
project that will generate revenue (SHN costs constitute about 85% of total project costs), and because there will be
no revenue from roads under HNIMP, Part I will focus on SHN and Part II will focus on the access road and
HNIMP. Given that about 35% of the investment will be financed by the World Bank at about a 7 % interest rate,
4% of investment will be financed locally at 9% interest rate, and the rest acquired from government budget
transfers--where the opportunity cost of capital is estimated at 5%--the weighted average cost of capital is 6%.
PART I: FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF SNH
2.     The construction of SNH is expected to be completed by the second half of 2004. GCD will form an
expressway company to be responsible for daily management, operations and developing the expressway. It will
also bear the financial obligations and those of its own development, including the repayment of the loans. Its
main revenue will be from road user tolls, which will be strictly controlled by the government.
The Financial Objective
3.     GCD has stated that the purpose of the SNH tolls is to repay the Bank loan, instead of maximizing the
financial rate of return on the investment. Thus, toll charges will be rather low and are assumed to grow slowlyg,
at 3% a year, which is lower than the estimated 5% increase in domestic general prices.
Financial Forecast
4.     Operating revenue. The toll will be based on vehicle size (small passenger cars, large buses, small
trucks, medium trucks, large trucks and trailers) and distance traveled. Some vehicles will be exempted (such
as those of the police and military, and ambulances), which are expected to be 1% of total traffic. Based on the
current rate, toll charges for SHN were established as follows:
2004 Toll Charges (Yuan/ vehicle-km)
Small car  Medium      Large     Small    Medium       Large    Tractor -
bus       bus       truck      truck      truck     trailer
Shuiren - Duan      0.32       0.64       0.97      0.32       0.64       0.97       1.29
Duan - Nanning      0.39       0.77       1.29       0.39      0.77       1.29       2.39
5.     Operating costs. SNH operating costs include: (a) wages and benefits, (b) maintenance, (c) operating
materials and supplies, (d) administration, (e) others, and (f) depreciation. All other expenses, such as taxes
and interest payments on the loan, are also included in the calculation of SHN's profitability. Results show that
although the highway will generate enough revenue over the loan period, the early years will produce deficits
(2004-2007). Adding the cost of the loan repayment, deficits may extend to 2010 (see income statement,
Table A).
6.     The capital required for the project investment, medium and major maintenance, and repayment of the
loan principal will generate added financial pressures on the SNH company during the early years (2004-
2009); thus, it is expected the cash shortage will not be relieved until after 2015 (see sources and applications
of funds, Table B).
7.     The company will enjoy a healthy leverage ratio due to the high degree of self-financing (about 60%).
Both the debt/capital ratio and debt/equity ratio are expected to be good. But, since total operating revenues will



Page 42                                                                Project Appraisal Document
Annex 6: Financial Sumnary                                         China: Guangxi Highway Project
not cover all operating expenses during the early years, the company may suffer liquidity problems (the
deteriorated current ratio, see Balance Sheet, Table C). The major assumptions for the financial evaluation are
shown in Table D.
8.     The result of the evaluation showed that the financial internal rate of return (FIRR) on equity will be
8.7%, while the FIRR for the total capital investment is expected to be 7.1%. If the SNH is delayed from
opening for six months (until 2005), except for NPV, the FIRR on equity and the total capital investment will
not change. For the financial probabilistic risk analysis, the five most uncertain factors which may affect the
financial evaluation are: (a) traffic growth, (b) toll charges, (c) total working costs, (d) total project investment,
and (e) delay in opening the highway until 2005. The result reveals that the most likely FIRR on the total
capital investment would be 7%, while the worst and the best FIRR would be 6% and 7.8%, respectively.
Details are in Table E and are summarized as follows.
Financial Sensitivity and Probabilistic Risk Analysis
Financial Sensitivity Test     Financial Simulation and Risk Analysis
Range of   Most Likely  Std. Error of
FIRR (2004)        FIRR (2005)     FIRR / NPV  FIRR / NPV   The Mean
To the   On equity  To the |On equity
project            project
FIRR              7.1%       8.7%     7.1%      8.7%    6.0% - 7.8%    7.0%         0.1%
NPV (6%, million    582.2    1,079.5    568.3   1,062.6  -13.2 - 964.3    511.1     28.5
Yuan)
Impact on the Toll Level
9.     Tolls are needed to: (a) generate enough revenue to obtain the higher financial rate of return on
investment, but (b) not deter potential users and compromise economic objectives. These objectives can be
contradictory, since the former requires a higher toll while the latter a lower one. The analysis shows that tolls
for 2004 would bring about 0.73 YuanL/veh-km, which should generate enough funds to repay the loan.
Sensitivity tests to the level of tolls (see the table below) showed that even at a rate of 4.0 Yuan/
veh-km, both the EIRR and FIRR are still justified. At higher rates, the EIRR falls rapidly while the FIRR almost
reaches its maximum. Further, if all construction costs were privately financed instead of covered by a 60%
government transfer, average tolls would need to be over 5.0 Yuan/veh-km to generate optimal FIRR to providers
of both debt and equity; this amount would substantially reduce the project's economic benefits.
Sensitivity of Evaluation Results to Variations in Toll Charges
Average toll charges         FIRR (%)      EIRR (%)
(Yuanlveh-km)
0.36                    -0.7          16.7
0.73                     7.1          16.4
1.00                    9.5           16.2
2.00                    17.2          15.4
3.00                    21.4          14.7
4.00                    23.7          14.2
5.00                    24.9          11.8
10.00                   23.5            1.2



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 43
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                       Annex 6: Financial Summary
PART II: HNIMP FINANCIAL EVALUATION
10.    The 10 HNIMP roads are toll free. As they do not earn revenues, the financial evaluation focused on:
(a) GCD's need to acquire sufficient finances to develop the provincial highway, including the counterpart
funds to the project investments; (b) the need to continue maintaining existing provincial roads at the same
time as huge capital resources are invested on the SNH and HNIMP components; and (c) GCD's pursuing
sound financial practices so as to minimize financial risks such as the lack of counterpart funds for
construction and future operating expenses of the project roads.
11.    GCD's highway revenue and expenditure data for 1996-2005 shows its actual budget allocation during
the Ninth Five Year Plan (1996 - 2000) and how it will cover highway development and expansion in the next
five years (the IOFYP, from 2001 - 2005). The data shows a decreasing self-financing ratio beginning in 1998,
a year after a construction program was introduced that almost doubled in scope from the previous year, while
self-generated revenues increased by less than 5%. The detailed sources and expenditures for 1996-2005 are
shown in Table F of this annex.
12.    As the provincial road network increases each year, additional resources will be needed to maintain
them. During the 9  and 10h FYP, the rate that average maintenance expenditures per km increased was the
same or faster than rate at which the network expanded; estimated increases in the road network and average
unit maintenance expenditures for the 9h and 10th FYP are 5% vs. 4.7% and 1.5% vs. 8.2%, respectively. If
GCD adhered to its plan for allocating funds, it would at least ensure that the quality of roads would not
deteriorate while it invests in new construction (see Table F for details).
GCD: Average Increase in the Road Network and
Road Maintenance Expenditures (in %)
9th FYP     1I OFYP
Average annual increase in the road network          5.0%         1.5%
Average annual increase in maintenance expenditures  4.7%         8.2%



Page 44                                                                                        Project Appraisal Document
Annex 6: Financial Summary                                                                 China: Guangxi Highway Project
Annex 6, Table A: Income Statement-SNH
(million Yuan, year ending December 31)
2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011    2012   2013   2014   2015
Traffic (million Veh.-km)     173.49   347.0  371.1  396.8  424.3  453.8  485.3  519.1   555.2  593.9  635.3  679.7
Operating revenue
Tolls                 113.29  251.75  276.78  304.24  334.42  367.61  404.09  444.22  488.33  536.90  590.25  649.28
Others                  5.66   12.59   13.84   15.21   16.72   18.38   20.20   22.21   24.42   26.85   29.51   32.46
Total           118.95  264.34  290.62  319.45  351.14  385.99  424.29  466.43  512.75  563.75  619.76  681.74
Operating Taxes
Business tax            5.95   13.22   14.53   15.97   17.56   19.30   21.21   23.32   25.64   28.19   30.99   34.09
City tax                0.42    0.93    1.02    1.12    1.23    1.35    1.48    1.63    1.79    1.97    2.17    2.39
Education levy          0.18    0.40    0.44    0.48    0.53    0.58    0.64    0.70    0.77    0.85    0.93    1.02
Total              6.55   14.55   15.99   17.57   19.32   21.23   23.33   25.65   28.20   31.01   34.09   37.50
Net Revenue                  112.40  249.79  274.63  301.88  331.82  364.76  400.96  440.78  484.55  532.74  585.67  644.24
Operating Costs
Wages and benefits      1.08    2.40    2.52    2.65    2.78    2.92    3.07    3.22    3.38    3.55    3.73    3.92
Maintenance             9.64   21.43   21.86   22.30   22.75  146.23   23.66   24.14   24.61   25.11  299.45   26.12
Fuel & materials        1.07    2.38    2.44    2.50    2.55   14.92    2.67    2.74    2.80    2.87   30.32    3.00
Administration          0.43    0.96    1.01    1.06    1.11    1.17    1.23    1.29    1.35    1.42    1.49    1.57
Others                 15.01   30.04   30.05   30.07   30.08   19.41    8.75    8.76    8.78    8.80    4.59    0.39
Total working costs    27.23   57.21   57.88   58.58   59.27  184.65   39.38   40.15   40.92   41.75  339.58   35.00
Depreciation           61.11  137.20  137.20  137.20  137.21  137.61  137.21  137.21  137.21  137.21  138.12  137.22
Total operating costs    88.34  194.41  195.08  195.78  196.48  322.26  176.59  177.36  178.13  178.96  477.70  172.22
Operating Profit              24.06   55.38   79.55  106.10  135.34   42.50   224.4  263.42  306.42  353.78  107.97   472.0
Interests:    IBRD loan    87.48  102.03  248.31  123.13  117.56  111.60  105.20   98.36   91.03   83.17   74.76   65.76
Local loan    12.88   10.02    7.16    4.29    1.43    -     - _             -       -      -       -
Other income:  (expenses)   -       -      (5.30)  (5.31)  (5.31)  (5.30)  (5.30)  (5.30)  (5.31)  (5.30)  (5.31)  (5.30)
Profit Before Taxes          (76.30) (56.67) (181.2) (26.63)   11.04 (74.40)  113.87  159.76  210.08  265.31   27.90  400.96
Income tax          _       _       _       _       3.64    -      37.58   52.72   69.33   87.55    9.21  132.32
Net Profit After Taxes       (76.30) (56.67) (181.2) (26.63)    7.40 (74.40)   76.29  107.04  140.75  177.76   18.69  268.64



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                       Page 45
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                                                                               Annex 6: Financial Summary
Annex 6, Table B: Sources and Applications of Funds
(million Yuan, year ending December3 1)
1999   2000   2001    2002    2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012   2013   2014   2015
Sources:
Net profits            -       -       -       -       -    (76.30) (56.67) (181.22) (26.63)    7.40  (74.40)  76.29  107.04  140.75  177.76   18.69  268.64
Depreciation           -       -       -       -       -      61.11  137.20  137.20  137.20  137.21  137.61  137.21  137.21  137.21  137.21  138.12  137.22
State contribution    60.00  100.00  220.00   240.00   70.00  140.00   60.00  110.00   -      -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -
Provincial contribution    88.87  148.12  325.86   355.48  103.68  207.37   88.87  162.93    -  -     -      -       -       -       -
Borrowing:   IBRD         -       - 265.60   365.20  398.40  116.20  232.40  282.20    -      -       -      -       -       -       -
Local    11.36    8.93   41.65    45.44   13.25   26.50   11.36   20.83    -     -      -       -       -       -       -
Others             -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -      -
Total          160.23  267.05  853.11  1,006.12  585.33  474.88  473.16  531.94  110.57  144.61   63.21  213.50  244.25  277.96  314.97  156.81  405.86
Applications:
Capital expenditure  170.46  373.47  773.98 1,009.52  556.35  502.03  378.99  565.70   54.88   54.89   55.05   54.89   54.89   54.89   54.89   55.25   54.89
Other investment       -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -
Loan repayment:
IBRD                                   -           -       -       -      72.97   78.17   83.74   89.70   96.10  102.94  110.27  118.13  126.54  135.54
Local                              2.86     7.78   12.17   37.86   37.86   37.86   37.86   37.88    -    -       -       -       -      -       -
Change w/ capital      -       -       -       -       -      (2.52)  (3.10)  (0.72)  (0.80)  (0.88)   11.32 (13.37)  (1.20)  (1.31)  (1.45)  25.80 (29.15)
Total           170.46  373.47  776.84 1,017.30  568.52  537.37  413.75  675.81  170.11  175.63  156.07  137.62  156.63  163.85  171.57  207.59  161.28
Net Funds Flow       (10.23) (106.42)  76.27  (11.18)   16.81 (62.49)  59.41 (143.87) (59.54) (31.02) (92.86)  75.88   87.62  114.11  143.40 (50.78) 244.58
Opening balance        -    (10.23) (116.65)  (40.38) (51.56) (34.75) (97.24) (37.83) (181.70) (241.24) (272.26) (365.12) (289.24) (201.62) (87.51)  55.89    5.12
Closing balance      (10.23) (116.65) (40.38)  (51.56) (34.75) (97.24) (37.83) (181.70) (241.24) (272.26) (365.12) (289.24) (201.62) (87.51)  55.89    5.12  249.70
D/S Cover                                                                (39.7)   95.3  118.9   70.5  222.2  237.3  252.1  266.6  123.9  299.4



Page 46                                                                               Project Appraisal Document
Annex 6: Financial Sumnmary                                                       China: Guangxi Highway Project
Annex 6, Table C: Balance Sheet
(million Yuan, year ending December 31)
2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011   2012  2013  2014  2015
Assets:
Fixed Assets
At cost                 4,115  4,115  4,115  4,170  4,225  4,280  4,335  4,390  4,444  4,499  4,555  4,609
Less:   Depreciation       61   198   336   473   610   748    885  1,022  1,159  1,296  1,435  1,572
Net fixed assets   4,054  3,917  3,779  3,697  3,615  3,532  3,450  3,368  3,285  3,203  3,120  3,038
Current Assets
Inventory                0.96   2.14   2.19   2.23   2.28  14.62   2.37   2.41   2.46   2.51  29.95   2.61
Accounts receivable       2.18   4.83   5.31   5.84   6.42   7.06   7.76   8.53   9.38  10.31  11.33  12.47
Cash                     (97)  (38)  (182)  (241)  (272)  (365)  (289)  (202)   (88)    56       5   250
Subtotal         (94)  (31)  (174)  (233)  (264)  (343)  (279)  (191)   (76)    69    46   265
Total Assets    3,960  3,886  3,605  3,464  3,351  3,189  3,171  3,177  3,210  3,272  3,166  3,303
Liabilities & Equity
State funds- Equity      2,059  2,208  2,554  2,687  2,826  2,971  3,122  3,279  3,445  3,618  3,799  3,990
L/T loans:  IBRD         1,145  1,378  1,587  1,509  1,425  1,335  1,239  1,136  1,026   908   781   646
Local         151    114    76    38        -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -
1,297  1,491  1,663  1,547  1,425  1,335  1,239  1,136  1,026   908   781   646
Current liabilities         6     13    14    15    17    18    20    22    24    27    30    32
Total Liabilities & Equity  3,960  3,886  3,605  3,464  3,351  3,189  3,171  3,177  3,210  3,272  3,166  3,303
Debt: Capital ratio          38.6  40.3   39.4  36.5  33.5  31.0  28.4  25.7  23.0  20.1   17.1   13.9
Debt /equity ratio          33/67  39/61  47/53  45/55  43/57  42/58  40/60  36/64  33/67  29/71  26/74  21/79
Current ratio              (16.63) (2.45) (12.59) (15.33) (15.76) (18.69) (13.82) (8.59) (3.10)  2.56   1.57   8.16



Page Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 47
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                                       Annex 6: Financial Summary
Annex 6, Table D: Assumptions for the Financial Forecasts
1. Traffic:
Small  Medium   Large    Small  Medium   Large  Tractor-   Total
Normal Traffic (AADT)      Car       bus      Bus    Truck    Truck   Truck   Trailer
Section I: Shuiren-Daxing
2005                 166       202       138      247      208       205       3       1,169
2015                 375       379      259       464      390       385       6      2,258
2025                 738       617      422       756      635       627      10      3,805
Section II: Daxing-Duan
2005                  87        93      200    1,094       148       295       5       1,922
2015                 197       175      375    2,054       278       554       9      3,642
2025                 388       285     .611     3,346      453       902      15      6,000
Section III: Duan-Nanning
2005               1,220     1,504      676       537      735       443      79      5,194
2015               2,758     2,823     1,269    1,008    1,380       832     148      10,218
2025               5,425     4,598     2,067    1,642    2,248     1,355     241      17,576
2.  Tariff Rates:
Small  Medium   Large    Small  Medium   Large              Tractor-
_uan_per_Vehicle-km_(2005)   Car       bus      Bus    Truck   Truck    truck            Trailer
Shuiren - Duan               0.32     0.64      0.97     0.32      0.64     0.97           1.29
Duan - Nanning               0.39      0.77     1.29     0.39      0.77     1.29           2.39
Increase 3% per annum
3.  Operating Taxes:
a) Business tax               5%      Of total revenue.
b) City tax                   7%      Of business taxes.
c) Education levy             3%      Of business taxes.
4.  Operating Costs:
a) Wages and benefits:            Y 12,000 /staff / year; 20 staffs station; 10 stations; increase 5% per annum
b) Maintenance (million Yuan/ km):  increase 2% per annum
Routine               Medium                  Major
Maintenance           Maintenance            Maintenance
(annual)              (/5 years)            (/10 years)
Shuiren - Duan                       0.065                 0.400                  0.750
Duan - Nanning                       0.105                  0.650                  1.200
c) Fuel & materials          10%    Of wage and maintenance.
d) Administration            40%    Of wages and benefits.
e) Others:
Intangible assets:       10   Years amortization; each year (mY): 8.44
Deferred charges:         5   Years amortization; each year (mY):21.36
Others                 10%    Wages & benefits.
f) Depreciation:               30   Years straight-line method.
5.  Income Tax Rate:            33.0%   Of profit before taxes.
6.  Borrowings: IBRD               7%   On 20-year maturity, LIBOR US$ based single currency including 5-year
grace.
Domestic          9%   On 8 year maturity and no grace period



Page 48                                                                      Project Appraisal Document
Annex 6: Financial Summary                                               China: Guangxi Highway Project
Annex 6, Table E: FIRR Simulation and Probabilistic Risk Analysis
Summary:
Display Range is from 2.0% to 12.0% FIRR (in%)
Entire Range is from 1.8% to 11.9% FIRR (in/)
After 999 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0.1%
Statistics:                       Value       Percentiles:
Trials                          999
Mean                           6.9%                            Percentile FIRR (in°4
Median                         7.0%                                 0%        1.8%
Mode                                                                10%       4.7%
Standard Deviation             1.7%       Worst Scenario           20%        5.5%
Variance                       0.0%               |                30%        6.0%
Skewness                       -0.17      Most Likely              40%        6.5%
Kurtosis                       2.85                [               50%        7.0%
Coeff. of Variability          0.24       Best Scenario            60%        7.4%
Range Minimum                  1.8%               '                70%        7.8%
Range Maximum                 11.9%                                80%        8.3%
Range Width                   10.1%                                90%        9.0%
Mean Std. Error               0.05%                                100%      11.9%
Forecast: Shuiren - Nanning Highway Project
999 Trials                   Frequency Chart                       2 Outliers
.038                                                              3
029.              4.5%...0%...5%...%285
Z%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
-~.019 ...........................19
.000    .  ...    ..R                                             0
2.0%         4.5%          7.0%          9.5%          12.0%
FIRR (in'/.)
Aquimptians
Traffic Growth                                 Total Revenue
Nornal distribution with paramneters:          Normal distribution with parameters:
Mean                 100.0%                    Mean                  100.0%
Standard Dev.         10.0%                    Standard Dev.          10.0%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity  Selected range is from -Infinity to -Infinity
Mean value in simulation was 99.6%             Mean value in simulation was 99.7%
Total Working Costs                            Total Project Investment
Triangular distribution with parameters:       Triangular distribution with parameters:
Minimum               90.0%                    Minimum                90.0%
Likeliest            100.0%                    Likeliest             100.0%
Maximum              110.0%                    Maximum               110.0%
Selected range is from 90.0% to 110.0%         Selected range is from 90.0% to 110.0%
Mean value in simulation was 100.2%            Mean value in simulation was 100.0%



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 49
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                               Annex 6: Financial Summary
Annex 6. Table F: Revenue and Expenditure of Highway Sector in Guangxi (1996-2000)
(Yuan million)
Page I of 2
1996     1997     1998     1999     2000    Total
Revenue
1. Road maintenance fee                        689.91   713.50   732.58   732.00   753.96  3,621.95
2. Tolls                                        180.40   197.24   104.10   222.64   369.41  1,073.79
3. Surcharge on passenger tickets               458.75   543.81   583.24   600.74   618.76  2,805.30
4. Surcharge on freight                         305.82   393.78   388.82   400.48   412.50  1,901.40
5. Vehicle purchase fee                         135.24   136.31   144.11   151.32   158.88   725.86
6. Central budget allocation                     10.00    10.00        -    46.00   120.00   186.00
7. Provincial budget allocation                 550.00   650.00   870.00   900.00   900.00  3,870.00
8. Subsidy from MOC                             597.91   664.48   792.80   765.00   787.95  3,608.14
9. Enterprise bond                                   -    30.00   100.00   300.00   300.00   730.00
10. Bank loan                                    788.17  1,154.22  3,753.74  3,720.00  4,747.30 14,163.43
11. Other funds                                   50.00    50.00    50.00    50.00    50.00   250.00
Total                                       3,766.20  4,543.34  7,519.39  7,888.18  9,218.76 32,935.87
Expenditure:
1. New construction                           3,115.82  3,792.85  6,250.82  6,239.35  7,729.55 27,128.39
2. Taxes                                          5.68     6.21     3.28     7.01    11.64    33.82
3. Traffic safety supervision                    17.25    17.84    18.31    18.30    18.85    90.55
4. Major rehabilitation                          42.77    37.80    43.81    37.22    48.38   209.98
5. Periodic maintenance                          39.33    55.04    97.85    59.89    77.86   329.97
6. Routine & other small                        195.52   189.10   239.51   246.04   319.85  1,190.02
maintenance
7. Administration and study                      96.05   100.94    88.87   106.60   130.81   523.27
8. Repayment of interest and principle          253.78   343.56   776.94  1,173.77   881.82  3,429.87
Total                                       3,766.20  4,543.34  7,519.39  7,888.18  9,218.76 32,935.87
Total Road Network (km) -(a)                        43,166   45,378   51,073   53,800   55,000  248,417
Average annual increase                          -         5.1%    12.6%     5.3%      2.2%     5.0%
Total maintenance expenditure (million Yuan)-(b) 1  277.62   281.94   381.17   343.15   446.09  1,729.97
Average unit maintenance expenditure ('000 Y/km)- (b)/(a)  6.43  6.21   7.46     6.38      8.11     6.96
Average annual increase                          -        -3.4%    20.1%   -14.5%    27.2%      4.7%
I/  Sum of major, medium and routine maintenance.
Actual :1996-1998; estimates: 1999-2000.



Page 50                                                                      Project Appraisal Document
Annex 6: Financial Summary                                               China: Guangxi Highway Project
Annex 6. Table F: Revenue and Expenditures for Highway Sector in Guangxi (2001-2005)
(Yuan million)
Page 2 of 2
2001     2002     2003      2004     2005      Total
Revenue
1. Road maintenance fee               776.58    799.88    823.88    848.60,   874.05  4,122.99
2. Tolls                              472.27    749.66    801.05    849.11    900.06  3,772.15
3. Surcharge on passenger tickets     637.32    656.44    676.14    696.42    717.31  3,383.63
4. Surcharge on freight               424.87   437.62    450.75    464.27    478.20  2,255.71
5. Vehicle purchase fee               166.83    175.17    183.92    193.12   202.78    921.82
6. Central budget allocation          123.60    129.78    136.27    143.08    150.24   682.97
7. Provincial budget allocation     1,000.00  1,200.00  1,500.00  1,700.00  1,800.00  7,200.00
8. Subsidy from MOC                   811.59    835.94    861.01    886.84   913.45  4,308.83
9. Enterprise bond                    300.00    300.00    300.00    300.00    300.00  1,500.00
10. Bank loan                        4,243.06  4,195.28  6,911.21  6,395.24  6,277.00 28,021.79
11. Other funds                         52.50    55.13     57.88    60.78     63.81    290.10
Total                             9,008.62  9,534.90 12,702.11 12,537.46 12,676.90 56,459.99
Expenditure:
1. New construction                 7,010.52  7,130.00 10,156.00  9,500.00  8,550.00 42,346.52
2. Taxes                               14.88    23.62     25.23    26.75     28.36    118.84
3. Traffic safety supervision          19.41    20.00     20.60    21.21     21.85    103.07
4. Major rehabilitation                58.06    63.87     70.26    84.31     92.74    369.24
5. Periodic maintenance                93.43    102.77    113.05    135.66    149.23    594.14
6. Routine & other small              383.82    422.20    464.42    557.30    613.03  2,440.77
maintenance
7. Administration and study           148.50    192.44   202.55    212.23    222.41    978.13
8. Repayment of interest and principle  1,280.00  1,580.00  1,650.00  2,000.00  2,999.28  9,509.28
Total                             9,008.62  9,534.90 12,702.11 12,537.46 12,676.90 56,459.99
Total Road Network (km) -(a)                    55,800    56,600    57,500    58,400    60,000   288,300
Average annual increase                  1.5%     1.4%      1.6%      1.6%     2.7%      1.5%
Total maintenance expenditure (million Yuan) -(b) r  535.31    588.84    647.73    777.27    855.00  3,404.15
Average unit maintenance. expenditure ('000 Y/km)-  9.59  10.40     11.26    13.31     14.25    11.81
(b)/(a)
Average annual increase                 _         8.4%      8.3%     18.1%   7.1%       8.2%
I / Sum of major, medium and routine maintenance.
Forecast: 2001-2005.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 51
China: Guangxi Highway Project                     Annex 7: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
China: Guangxi Highway
Procurement
1 .    A procurement capacity assessment of the project implementing agencies was carried out during the
preparation of the project and a Procurement Capacity Assessment Report of October 1999 is on file and
available on request. The following summarizes the Bank assessment.
2.     Although the Guangxi Highway Project is the first Bank-financed project to be implemented by the
implementing agency-Project Management Office (PMO) of the Guangxi Communications Departmnent
(GCD), staff of PMO has acquired necessary experience related to domestic and international procurement
process. Majority of staff of PMO are from the Capital Construction Administration Bureau (CCAB) of GCD
who has been responsible for the construction of expressway and high grade highways in the Province. PMO
is also supported by the Foreign Capital Utilization Division of GCD (FCUD) which has many years
experience with implementing the Bank-financed Inland Water-way Project and ADB-financed port and
highway projects. As a government organization, PMO has been fully authorized to implement the project.
3.     By early involvement of the agency throughout the preparation of the project the agency has
accumulated experience on the required Bank procurement guidelines and procedures particularly on
procurement of consultant services and pre-qualification and bidding of major highway (SNH). PMO has also
prepared and discussed with the Bank its Procurement Management Manual for which the responsibility and
ethics code for each level of its procurement units and its staff, as well as procurement procedures based on the
guidelines to be used for the projects are well spelled out in the manual. An experienced procurement
agent-ITC of CNTIC-was also hired to assist PMO with the large scale procurement work under the
project. With proper assistance from regional and local governmnents, foreign and local consultant teams, etc.
PMO is expected to gradually fulfill their procurement function and administer procurement under the project
in an efficient and transparent way. The risk of non-compliance of the Bank's guidelines in the procurement
process is low.
4.     Although there are some deviations in internal NCB procurement procedures for works, such as
bracketing and merit point system used in pre-qualification and bid evaluation, GCD has fully commnitted to
strictly follow the Bank's procurement rules/policy and for the Bank-financed contracts. In case there are
discrepancy between local policy and Bank's requirement, the Bank's policy and guidelines will prevail. For
this purpose a supplement letter to Loan Agreement will be signed by the government and further
training will be conducted to address these insufficiencies.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
5.     Procurement will be carried out as shown in Table A: Procurement of goods and works will be
executed according to the World Bank's "Guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
(January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) and the "Guidelines
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised September 1997
and January 1999) for services. Procurement documents, which cover ICB and national competitive bidding
(NCB) for goods and works, and bid evaluation reports, were standardized for local conditions by the Chinese
government and the Bank on the basis of model documents which will be used for all procurement under the
project. All consultant assignments will follow the Standard Request for Proposals - Selection of Consultants
(July 1997, revised April 1998 and July 1999). Where no model documents exist, Bank standard documents
will be used.
6.     Works (US$448.9 million, including contingencies). Civil works for SNH will be divided into 10
contracts, with an average size of about US$36 million. Electro-mechanical works will be handled as one
contract of about US$12.2 million.
7.     The 10 civil works contracts and one electro-mechanical works contract for SNH, with an estimated
cost of about US$373 million, will be procured using ICB procedures. These contracts will be bid on a slice
and package basis; qualified firmns will be allowed to bid for more than one contract, which should attract
international contractors and large Chinese contractors. Contractors for ICB contracts for civil works will be



Page 52                                                               Project Appraisal Document
Annex 7: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                China: Guangxi Highway Project
pre-qualified. China is again eligible for preference for domestic contractors. The General Procurement
Notice (GPN) for the project and the Specific Procurement Notice (SPN) for the civil works and consulting
services required to supervise the SNH were published in the UiN Development Business No. 504 on February
16, 1999 and No. 511 on May 31, 1999, respectively. For the contract for SNH electrical and mechanical
works, invitations to bid will be advertised as specific procurement notices in the UN Development Business
and/or well-known technical magazines, newspapers, and trade publications that have wide international
exposure. Each contract for works estimated at US$50 million or more will provide for a dispute review board
set forth in the standard bidding documents (referred to in para.2.42 of the above-mentioned Guidelines).
8.     Other works, including buildings (estimated at US$8.6 million), highway network improvements
(US$64.7 million), and highway safety program (US$2.9 million) will be awarded following NCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank. These works will involve contracts of less than US$10 million each. Since they will
be small, scattered throughout the province and implemented over four years, ICB will not be justified or
practical; however, foreign firms will not be prevented from bidding.
9.     Equipment (US$13.2 million, including contingencies). Generally, contracts for goods and
equipment over US$250,000 are awarded under ICB. Domestic manufacturers competing under ICB will be
eligible for a margin of preference in the comparison of bids of 15% for goods, or the prevailing customs
duties, whichever is lower. Some specific testing equipment and surveying instruments with an aggregate
amount not exceeding US$1.1 million will be procured through LIB procedures. Other items or groups of
items covering maintenance equipment, laboratories, research and environmental protection purposes
estimated to be under US$250,000 per contract package, with an aggregate amount not exceeding US$1
million, will be procured following shopping procedures on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from at least three suppliers from two countries eligible under the Bank Guidelines for Procurement.
10.    Consultants (US$14.8 million, including contingencies). All consultants required for construction
supervision, staff training, technical assistance and studies to be implemented under the IST components will
be selected and employed under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank according to Guidelines on the
"Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised in July 1997
and January 1999). Details of staff training, technical assistance and studies are presented in the IST report in
the project files. For consultant services, the Standard Request for Proposals (July 1997, revised in April
1998), will be used. Consulting services with an estimated contract cost of more than US$ 100,000 for firms
will be procured through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS). Individual consultants will be selected
according to paras. 5.1 through 5.3 of the Guidelines. Services which are estimated to cost less than the above
threshold per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured by single source selection in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. Local experts
from various independent provincial universities and institutes will be used as much as possible. All
consultant services above US$200,000 will be advertised in the Development Business.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
11.    Prior review procedures will be used for: (a) civil works contracts with an estimated cost of US$2
million or more; (b) equipment with an estimated cost of over US$250,000 per contract; and (c) consulting
services with an estimated contract cost of over US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals. With
consultant contracts, terms of reference and single-source selections-regardless of the value of the
contract-will be subject to prior review. This will apply to 99% and 90% of the total contract values of
works and goods financed by the Bank, respectively. For contracts below these limits, post-review procedures
will be followed. The sampling ratio for contracts not subject to prior review is 25% for goods contracts.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
12.    Use of statements of expenses (SOEs). Withdrawals from the loan account will be made on the basis
of SOEs for: (a) civil works in contracts under US$2 million, (b) goods in contracts under US$250,000, (c)
services provided by consulting firms in contracts under US$100,000, and (d) services provided by individual
consultants in contracts under US$50,000 and (e) training.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 53
China: Guangxi Highway Project                  Annex 7: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
13.    Authorization, allocation and operation of the special account. To facilitate disbursements, a
special account will be opened with an authorized allocation of US$12 million equivalent, the estimated
average expenditures for a four-month period.
14.    Retroactive financing. Retroactive financing of up to US$1,000,000 will be applied to expenditures
made after June 1, 1999 for the training under the construction supervision and the purchase of laboratory and
testing equipment.



Page 54                                                                      Project Appraisal Document
Annex 7: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                       China: Guangxi Highway Project
Annex 7, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement method
ICB        NCB          Other al     N.B.F.b'     Total cost
Works
Expressway civil works            258.5                                                258.5
(108.5)                                             (108.5)
Class 2 highway civil works       101.6                                                101.6
(42.5)                                              (42.5)
Buildings                                        8.6                                     8.6
(2.4)                                   (2.4)
E&M facilities                     12.2                                                 12.2
(9.0)                                               (9.0)
Highway network improvement                     64.7                                    64.7
(18.0)                                  (18.0)
Black spot improvements                          2.9                                     2.9
(0.8)                                  (0.8)
Subtotal                          372.3         76.2                                   448.5
(160.0)       (21.2)                                (181.2)
Goods
Equipment                           9.2                       2.1          1.9          13.2
(9.2)                    (1.7)        (0.0)        (10.9)
Service
Construction supervision 9/                                  12.2                       12.2
(3.5)                      (3.5)
Training and studies 5/                                       3.0                        3.0
(2.4)                      (2.4)
Subtotal                                                     17.3                       15.2
(5.9)                      (5.9)
Miscellaneous
Land acquisition & resettlement                                           45.8          45.8
(0)          (0)
Front-end fees                                                2.0                        2.0
(2.0)                      (2.0)
Interest during construction                                              42.1          42.1
(0.0)        (0.0)
Total                                  381.5         76.2         19.3         89.8         566.8
(169.2)       (21.2)        (9.6)        (0)        (200.0)
a/ Other includes international shopping, LIB, and consultants and training.
b/ N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
c/  Selection of consultants according to the Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
Notes: (1) Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
(2) All figures are rounded and include estimated physical and price contingencies but exclude the cost of land
acquisition and resettlement which is shown as a separate component.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 55
China: Guangxi Highway Project                       Annex 7: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract value                Contracts Subject to Prior Review/
(Threshold)     Procurement   Estimated Total Value Subject
Expenditure Category                (US$'000,OO)       Method       to Prior Review (US$ million)
1.     Works                           More than 10.0    ICB          11 contracts
US$372.7 million
Less than 10.0    NCB          13 contracts
US$76.2 million
2.     Goods                           More than 0.25    ICB          6 contracts
US$9.2 million
LIB         3 contracts
US$ 1.1 million
Less than 0.25    IS           US$2.9 million
3.     Services                        More than 0.10     QCBS         1 supervision contracts
US$3.6 million
For firms, more                5 contracts for training and studies
than 0.05 for                  US$0.6 million
individuals
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:             US463.4 million



Page 56                                                                     Project Appraisal Document
Annex 7: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                      China: Guangxi Highway Project
Annex 7, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
($ million)
Amount in
Expenditure Category            US$
million                Financed Percentage
Works
Expressway                           102.2                   45% of total expenditures
Class 2 highway                       40.1                   45% of total expenditures
Buildings                              2.3                   30% of total expenditures
E & M facilities                       8.5                   80% of total expenditures
Highway network improvement           17.0                   30% of total expenditures
Black spot improvements                0.8                   30% of total expenditures
Construction supervision                3.5                    100% of expenditures
Equipment                              10.9                    100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Training                                2.0                    100% of total expenditures
Studies                                 0.4                    100% of expenditures
Front-end fees                          2.0
Unallocated                            10.3
Total                         200.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 57
China: Guangxi Highway Project                     Annex 7: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7, Table C-1: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US U million)
Disbursement profile of transport
Bank FY        Annually         Cumulative          %               projects in China
FY 2001           26                26              13                   16
FY 2002           44                70              22                  22
FY 2003           50               120              25                  22
FY 2004           36               156              18                  18
FY 2005           30               186              15                  22
FY 2006           14               200               7



Page 58                                                                 Project Appraisal Document
Annex 7: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                  China: Guangxi Highway Project
Annex 7, Table C-2: Financing Plan
(US$ million)
($1.00=Y8.3, November 1999 prices)
Government          Bank         Total  Bank Financing
Provincial   Central
1. Works
a) Civil works                      67.2       106.7       142.3       316.2        45
i) Expressway                    50.2        74.7       102.2       227.1         45
ii) Class 2 highway              17.0        32.0        40.1        89.1        45
b) Buildings                         5.2                     2.3         7.5        30
c) E & Mfacilities                   2.1                     8.5        10.6        80
d) Highway network improvement      39.7                    17.0        56.7        30
e) Black spot improvements           1.7                     0.8         2.5        30
Subtotal                     116.1       106.7       170.9       393.7
2. Supervision of construction          8.2                     3.5        11.7        30
3. Equipment                            1.8                    10.9        12.7        86
4. Training                             0.4                     2.0         2.4        81
5. Studies                              0.1                     0.4         0.5        80
6. Contingencies                      45.5                     10.3        55.8         0
7. Land acquisition and resettlement   45.7                     0.0        45.7         0
8. Interest During Construction       42.1                      0.0        42.1         0
9. Front-end fees                       0.0                     2.0         2.0       100
Project Total                      260.1       106.7       200.0       566.8        35
Percent of Total



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 59
China: Guangxi Highway Project                          Annex 8: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
China: Guangxi Highway Project
Project Schedule                       Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Tine taken to prepare the project (months)               18                      18
First Bank mission (identification)                  08/15/1999              08/15/1999
Appraisal mission departure                          11/14/1999              11/14/1999
Negotiations                                         01/20/2000              01/20/2000
Planned date of effectiveness                        06/30/2000
Prepared by: Guangxi Communications Department
Preparation assistance: Japanese Trust funds
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name              Bank Unit       Borrower Agency          Role/Responsibility
Bank Team
Supee Teravaninthom     EACCF                                 Task manager/economist
Yasuhiro Kawabata        EASTR                                Highway engineer
Robin Carruthers        EASTR                                 Economist
Hank Yen                EASTR                                 Financial analyst
Soichiro Seki           EASES                                 Environmental specialist
Hoi-chan Nyugen         LEGEA                                 Country counsel
Sandra Durham           EAPCO                                 Financial management
specialist
Simon Bradbury          LOAAS                                 Disbursement Officer
Sun Chongwu             EACCF                                 Environmental specialist
Zhang Chaohua           EASES                                 Social development specialist
Liu Zhefu               EACCF                                 Social development specialist
Luiz Gazoni             EAPCO                                 Procurement Specialist
Yang Dawei              EACCF                                 Procurement specialist
Chu Junxue              EACCF                                 Disbursement specialist
Iwama Shigeru           Consultant                            Highway engineer & highway
safety specialist
Xin Chen                  EACCF                                Team assistant
GCD Team
Li Shangyan                                GCD                 Deputy Director of GCD
Liao Xiaobo                                GCD                  Chief, Foreign Cap. Utilization
Division of GCD
Shen Xiaohui                               GCD                 Deputy Director of PMO
Jian Zhihui                                Guangxi Highway    Lead, feasibility study team
Design Institute
Liu Shan                                   GCD working in       Prepare environmental assessment
cooperation with   report
Xian Highway
University



Page 60                                                               Project Appraisal Document
Annex 9: Implementation Program                                   China: Guangxi Highway Project
Annex 9: Implementation Program
Guangxi Highway Project
This annex presents the implementation program for the project's components. Table A summarizes
the schedule for the whole project. Table B shows the schedule for SNH, administration and maintenance
buildings, electrical and mechanical works, supervision of SNH and HNMIP construction, and black-spot
improvements.
These schedules show the estimated time required for construction as well as for pre-construction
activities such as preparing designs and bid documents, pre-qualification processes, bidding processes,
evaluation of bids, negotiations and sigring of contracts.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                                             Page 61
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                                                                                                            Annex 9: Implementation Program
Annex 9, Table A: Overall Implementation Schedule
1999                   2000                   2001                   2002                    2003                   2004                 2005
GENERAL PROCUREMENT NOTICE
(02/16199)
Works
'1. Shuiren-Nanning Highway
- Civil Works                                C     =                                                                                   _
- Buildings                                                                                          ____
- Supply and Installation (E & M)                            l                                1                                                                  ____
2. Highway Maintenance                                                                                 __________
- First Package
- Second Package
- Third Package                                                                                              _____
3. Black Spot Improvements                          C        =_       _      _--                     -        :
- First Package
Supervision of onstruction
- Shuiren-Nanning Highway-
Procurement of Equipment
Maintenance for National
and Provincial Highways
- Laboratories
- IST                                                   I
Training
Studies
- Aesthetic Designs                                                   -
- Highway Construction
in Poor Areas
Preaualification/DreDaration of biddinq documentsrTOR                                Construction/suDervision/deliverv/execution of studies
Biddina Drocess/comoetition amona consultants                                        Defects liabilitv veriod



Page 62                                                                                                                                                                          Project Appraisal Document
Annex 9: Implementation Program                                                                                                                                             China: Guangxi Highway Project
CHINA: GUANGXI HIGHWAY PROJECT
Annex 9, Table B: Implementation Schedule for SNH
1999              |2000               12001               2002               12003               12004
ID    Task Name                                                    Duration        Start         H         H2        H                            H2        Hi |H2              Hi        H2        Hi
1. Civil Works                                              1437 days       Mon 2/1/99                       i-                _ _                              . _  _
2          ICB Contracts SNH                                           I day      Mon 2/1/99
3          General procurement Notice in UNDB                         0 days     Tue 2/16/99          6
4          Specific procurement Notice in UNDB                         1 day     Mon 5/31/99
5         The Bank's no objection" to prequaqlification documents    37 days       Tue 6/1/99
6          Prequalification docs (PQ) available for sale             36 days     Mon 8/23/99
7          Last date to submit PQ documents                           0 days    Sun 10/10/99
8         PQ documents evaluation report & MOC review                38 days   Mon 10/11/99i
9         Bank review & no obj. to PQ docs evaluation rep            14 days    Wed 12/1/99
10         Review bidding documents by MOC                           35 days      Thu 9/30/99
11         Review bidding documents by the Bank                      24 days    Tue 11/16/99
12         Sell bidding docs to prequalified contractors             66 days    Tue 12/21/99
13         Last date to receive bid documents                         0 days    Wed 3/15/00                                5
14         Bid evaluation report and review by MOC                   23 days      Thu 3/16/00
15         Bank review evaluation report and no objection            21 days      Tue 4/18/00
16         Notify successful bidder                                     1 day     Tue 5/16/00
17         Negotiate and sign contracts                              11 days    Wed 5/17100
18         Construction Period                                     1054 days       Thu 7/6/00
19   2. Buildings (Offices, Toll Stations & Service Areas) - NCB    552 days      Thu 5/30/02
20         Complete bidding documents                                   1 day     Thu 5/30/02]
Task                                           Summary                _                        Rolled Up Progress
Project: pad-kawa-imsch                     Split                  ,                        Rolled Up Task                                 External Tasks
Date: Tue 2/29/00                           Progress                                        Rolled Up Split                                Project Summary _
Milestone              *                       Rolled Up Milestone  X
Page 1 of 4



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                                                                Page 63
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                                                                                                                            Annex 9: Implementation Program
CHINA: GUANGXI HIGHWAY PROJECT
Annex 9, Table B: Implementation Schedule for SNH
1999               2000                2001               2002                2003                2004
ID    Task Name                                                    Duration        Start         HI        H2        Hi        H2|Hi              H2        Hi        H2        Hi        H2        Hi
21         Bank review and no objection of BD                          0 days       Sat 6/1/02
22         Sell bidding documents                                    45 days       Mon 7/1/02
23         Last date to receive bid documents                           1 day      Fri 8/30/02
24         Bid evaluation report and review by MOC                   22 days       Sun 9/1/02
25         Bank review and no objection                              22 days      Tue 10/1/02
26         Negotiate and sign contracts                              22 days       Fri 11/1/02
27         Construction period                                      391 days       Thu 1/2/03
28    3. Supplying & Installation E&M Works (ICB)                   829 days      Tue 5115101
29         Submit to the Bank final bid document                      0 days      Tue 5/1 5/01
30         No objection to bidding documents by Bank                 45 days      Tue 5/15/01
31         Specific procurement notice (UNDB)                          0 days     Mon 7/30/01
32        Issue bidding documents                                    67 days       Fri 8/10/01
33         Last date to receive bids (stage 1)                        0 days     Sat 11/10/01
34         Evaluate bids                                            114 days    Sun 11/11/01
35         Contractor prepare financial bids(stage 2)                33 days      Tue 4/16/02
36         Last date to submit financial bids                          0 days     Thu 5/30/02
37         Bid evaluation report & Government review                 22 days        Sat 6/1/02
38         Bank review & no objection to bid evaluation report       22 days       Mon 7/1/02
39         Negotiate and sign contract                               44 days       Thu 8/1/02
40         Establish letter of credit                                45 days    Wed 10/2/02
Task                                           Summary                                         Rolled Up Progress
Project: pad-kawa-imsch                     Split                                           Rolled Up Task                                 External Tasks
Date: Tue 2/29/00                           Progress                                        Rolled Up Split                  ........   Project Summary
Milestone                                      Rolled Up Milestone  X
Page 2 of 4



Page 64                                                                                                                                                                           Project Appraisal Document
Annex 9: Implementation Program                                                                                                                                             China: Guangxi Highway Project
CHINA: GUANGXI HIGHWAY PROJECT
Annex 9, Table B: Implementation Schedule for SNH
1999               2000               |2001               2002                2003                2004
ID    Task Name                                                    Duration        Start         HI        H2        HI        H2       HI        H2        Hi        H2                  H         Hi
41         Manufacture & delivery of equipment                      174 days      Sun 12/1/02
42         Transport of equipment to site                            43 days        Fri 8/1/03
43         Installation and commissioning and trial-run of systems  196 days    Wed 10/1/03
44    4. Construction supervision                                  1348 days    Mon 5/31/99
45         Specific procurement notice (UNDB)                          0 days     Mon 5/31/99       *   5/31
46         No objection of Bank to TOR, LOI & Shortlist               19 days     Tue 6/15/99
47        Issue invitations to consultants                           45 days      Thu 7115129
48         Last date to receive proposals                              0 days    Wed 9/15199
49         Evaluation of the quality (technical proposals)            12 days     Thu 9/16/99
50         Bank review evaluation rpt(tech) & no objection           17 days      Sat 10/2/99
51         Notify constultants on the opening date of the financial propo  0 days   Mon 10/25199
52         Opening of financial proposals                             0 days   Wed 11/10/99                           0
53         Complete combined quality & cost evaluation                  1 day    Thu 11/25/99
54         Bank review proposal evaluation rpt & no objection        11 days    Wed 12/1/99
55         Negotiations with consultant & sign contract              22 days       Sat 1/1/00
56         Prepare training material by consultant                   43 days       Tue 2/1/00
57         Train local staff                                         67 days        Sat 4/1/00
58         Supervision of construction                             1054 days        Sat 7/1/00
59    5. Highway Network Improvement (First Package-NCB)            679 days   Wed 12/15/99
61         Review bidding documents by MOC                           24 days    Thu 12/16/99                        *       |
Task                                           Summary                                         Rolled Up Progress
Project: pad-kawa-imsch                     Split                      ,,,,,,,,             Rolled Up Task                                 External Tasks          RolUTk_ Eeak
Date: Tue 2/29/00                           Progress                                        Rolled Up Split          ,        ,            Project Summary
Milestone                                      Rolled Up Milestone  X
Page 3 of 4



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                                                                Page 65
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                                                                                                                            Annex 9: Implementation Program
CHINA: GUANGXI HIGHWAY PROJECT
Annex 9, Table B: Implementation Schedule for SNH
1999               2000               12001               12002               2003                2004
ID    Task Name                                                   Duration         Start         Hi        H2   |H            H2   |H             H2   |H             H2   |H             H2   |H
62         Review bidding documents by the Bank                      23 days      Sat 7t15100
63         Sell bidding docs to contractors                          33 days    Wed 8/16/00
64         Last date to receive bid documents                         0 days      Sun 10/1/00
65         Bid evaluation report and review by MOC                   11 days      Sun 10/1/00
66         Bank review evaluation report and no objection            13 days    Mon 10/16/00
67         Notify successful bidder                                   0 days    Wed 11/1/00
68         Negotiate and sign contracts                              22 days      Thu 11/2/00
69         Construction period                                      405 days   Wed 12/20/00
70   6. Black Spots Improvement (First Package-NCB)                 413 days   Wed 12t15/99
71         Complete bidding documents                                   1 day   Wed 12/15/99
72         Review bidding documents by MOC                           24 days    Thu 12/16/99
73         Review bidding document by the Bank                       24 days      Sun 1/16/00
74         sell bidding docs to contractors                          32 days    Wed 2/16/00
75         Last date to receive bid documents                         0 days      Thu 3/30/00                            /30
76         Bid evaluation report and review by MOC                   22 days       Sat 4/1/00
77         Bank review evaluation report and no objection            22 days       Mon 5/1/00
78         Negotiate-and sign contracts                              10 days       Thu 6/1/00
79         Construction period                                      264 days       Sat 7/1/00
Task                                           Summary                                         Rolled Up Prqgress
Project: pad-kawa-imsch                     Split                   .....                   Rolled Up Task                                 External Tasks
Date: Tue 2/29/00                           Progress                                        Rolled Up Split                                Project Summary _
Milestone                                      Rolled Up Milestone  X
Page 4 of 4



Page 66                                                             Project Appraisal Document
Annex 10: Review of Financial Management System                 China: Guangxi Highway Project
Annex 10: Review of Financial Management System
China: Guangxi Highway Project
I. BACKGROUND
1.    Scope/Objective of Review. As required by the Bank OP/BP 10.02 the task team has reviewed and
analyze the financial management system of the Guangxi Highway Project. The review was performed in
accordance with the Guide for Review and Design of Accounting and Reporting System for World Bank
Projects (Prepared by COSU in December, 1997) and the Review of Financial Management System as
stipulated in Annex II of LACI Implementation Handbook. The objective of the review is to determine whether
the Project has in place an adequate financial management system.
2.    Project objective. The objective of the proposed Guangxi Highway Project is to assist Guangxi
Zhuang Autonomous Region to strengthen the local institutional capacity, and provide an efficient, safe and
cost effective inter-provincial transport link among land-locked hinterland provinces of Guizhou, Yunnan,
Sichuan and Chongqin with Guangxi and Guangdong. This will help stimulate the social and economic
development of these provinces, reduce the poverty conditions and thus improve regional development
disparity situation.
3.    Project status/schedule. The Project is scheduled to be submitted to the Board in March 2000.
Implementation period of project is scheduled to run approximately 5 years.
II. ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE/INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
4.     The overall responsible agency for the Project is Guangxi Communication Department (GCD).
Project Management Office (PMO) has been set up under GCD to handle day-to-day implementation work of
the project. The Deputy Director of GCD is the head of the Office. The scope of responsibility of PMO is
formed to include all implementation and coordination aspects of every component under the project. Most
staff of the PMO is from the current Capital Construction Bureau of GCD, which is currently responsible for
implementing the domestic financed highway construction. Most staff who are currently participating in the
project preparation in GCD will join the PMO. Under the PMO there are no more sub-layers to be officially
responsible for any part of the project. The Bank has been informed of the legal status of the PMO during
appraisal.
5.     The Project financial management is to be handled by the PMO and Guangxi Finance Bureau (GFB).
The Foreign Loan Division of GFB will be responsible for monitoring, maintenance and reconciliation of the
Special Account, check and monitor withdrawal applications and verify payment requests meet Bank
requirements. Funds will flow from the Bank to GFB through on-lending arrangements and then onto
vendor/contractors or PMO. Financial Section of PMO will maintain the project books and accounting
records, and be responsible for collecting all the supporting documents, monitoring contract payments,
preparing payment requests before submitting to GFB. GFB will further verify, approve and process before
submitting to the Bank for disbursements. Original financial and disbursement documentation will be all kept
in PMO.
6.    Institutional experience with Bank-Financed Projects. The GFB has had substantial experience with
Bank-financed projects and is familiar with existing disbursement, procurement, financial reporting and
auditing requirements(e.g. Inland waterway, Guangxi Environment, and South westem poverty reduction
projects). However, PMO is new to Bank project implementation. Training on financial management,
particularly on the Bank's procedures and requirements, will therefore be needed for the staff of the PMO.
III. PROJECT STRUCTURE AND COSTING
7.     Financing and Cost Sharing. The financing of the project will be supported by IBRD (US$ 200 M)
and Government financing (US$ 367 M) for a total estimated project cost of US$ 567 M. The government
financing is to be provided through central and regional finance budgeting.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 67
China: Guangxi Highway Project                    Annex 10: Review of Financial Management System
8.    Loan Agreement Categories. These would include: civil works, goods, consultant services and
training. The amounts and percentages of loan allocation was discussed during appraisal and will be finalized
during negotiations.
9.     Project Components. The Project is comprised of the following six components:
1) Works
* expressway
* Class 2 Highway
* Buildings
* Electrical and Mechanical Facilities
* Hwy Network Improvement and Maintenance Program
* Black Spots Improvement
2) Supervision of construction
3) Equipment
4) Training
5) Studies
6) Land Acquisition
IV. INTERNAL AND OTHER CONTROLS
10.    Project Financial Management Manual. The objective of the Manual is to document the
operational procedures and guidelines for project financial management encompassing both GFB and PMO.
The outline of the information to be covered in the Manual and a sample of the Manual has been provided by
the Bank. The scope of the manual includes project financial management structure and staffing, accounting
standards, project chart of accounts, project reporting formats, cash and assets management, disbursement,
counterpart fund management, budgeting and auditiisg. The division of duty within PMO is also reflected in
the Manual. PMO has submitted the draft Manual to the Bank during project appraisal in November 1999.
The draft manual was fully discussed and the task team satisfied that it covers all the Bank concerns on the
project financial management.
11.    Laws/Regulations. The administration, accounting and reporting of the Project are required to be set
up in accordance with the following regulations/circulars as issued by the Ministry of Finance (MOF):
a) Circular #12: "Regulation for the Submission of Withdrawal Applications" issued Dec. 1996 -
includes detailed procedures for preparing and submitting withdrawal applications and retention
of supporting documentation.
b) Circular #127: "Temporary Regulations on Financial and Accounting Management for Projects
Financed by the World Bank" issued in 1993 - provides the basis of accounting treatment for
project activities and guidelines for project financial management.
c) Accounting Law issued January 1985 with subsequent amendments - includes job responsibilities
for cashiers and accountants and financial management recording and reporting requirements.
d) MOF Agreement - An agreement has been reached between the Bank and MOF on a standard set
of financial statements to be used by World Bank projects. This agreement outdates the previous
MOF Circular #6: "Temporary Regulations on Financial Management Reporting for Projects
Financed by the World Bank" issued January 1997. The format of the financial statements
included in this MOF Agreement package are primarily based on the Construction Accounting
Standard noted in 12. below.
12.    Standards. The Construction Accounting Standard issued by Construction Department and
Accounting Department, MOF for construction oriented projects dictates the format of financial statements,
chart of accounts and related instructions which would therefore affect project accounting and reporting
requirements.



Page 68                                                             Project Appraisal Document
Armex 10: Review of Financial Management System                  China: Guangxi Highway Project
V. PROJECT ACCOUNTING, FINANCIAL AND MANAGEMENT REPORTING
13.    Accounting. The accounts will be prepared in accordance with the Circulars and laws noted in
section IV. above on an accrual accounting, double entry bookkeeping basis in accordance with Chinese
accounting standards. The accounting software which has recently developed by World Bank Country Office
in China (RMC)and MOF will be used by the Project.
14.    Project Reporting. Clearance has been received from MOF on a standard set of project financial
statements which will be utilized by this project. In terms of reporting cycle, the Project financial statements
will be submitted to the Bank semi-annually and include the following five statements:
a) Statement 1:    Balance Sheet;
b) Statement 2-1:  Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Component;
c) Statement 2-2:  Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Component;
d) Statement 3:    Statement of Implementation of Loan Agreement; and
e) Statement 4:    Special Account Statement.
The task team has fully discussed the format of these statements and have them included in the Manual. The
review report with all the agreed format for financial statement are also available in Project Files. PMO will
keep all project accounts and records, and be responsible for the financial reporting. Discussions with PMO
staff have indicated that semi-annual financial statements will be submitted to the Bank before August 15 and
February 28 each year.
15.    Counterpartfunding. Counterpart funding is mainly from Central and Guangxi Communication
sector budget. Financing procedures will use the current government budgeting process and all the counterpart
funds will be deposited into PMO account which has been set up in China Construction Bank, Nanning
Branch.
VI. SPECIAL ACCOUNT, DISBURSEMENTS AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION
16.    SpecialAccount. Only one Special Account under the Project, to be held in U.S. dollars, will be
managed by Foreign Loan Division, Regional Finance Bureau. The opening bank of Special Account will be
selected by GFB before disbursement start according to the Bank disbursement Guideline. The Division will
check and monitor withdrawal applications and verify payment requests to meet Bank requirements.
Corresponding bank accounts for Special Account related transactions will be held at the PMO.
17.   Disbursements and Supporting Documentation. The originals of the support documentation and
copies of each withdrawal application will be maintained by the PMO. In addition, necessary copies are
maintained at GFB. In terms of disbursement application processing and clearance procedures, please refer to
the disbursement flow chart below. GFB will submit replenishment applications to the Bank at monthly
intervals or when the balance in the Special Account reaches about 50% of the initial deposit, whichever
comes first.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 69
China: Guangxi Highway Project                    Annex 10: Review of Financial Management System
Project disbursement flow chart
GFB                                    ~~~~~~GCD
(2)
PMO
(3)
Notes: (1) GFB-Guangxi Finance Bureau will be responsible to and manage SA.
(2) GCD - Guangxi Communication Department, will play a leading role in the implementation.
(3) PMO - Project Management Office under GCD.
(4)        lo  Funds flow
D Disbursement documents flow
VII. STAFFING AND TRAINING
18.    Staffing. PMO has formally been established since June 1, 1999 and, the project chief accountant who
was currently the financial section chief of Capital Construction Bureau of GCD, has been appointed. This
project Chief Accountant is a Certified Accountant with high education background on accounting, and has
worked on highway construction for 7years. The financial section will be set up under the PMO, and equipped
with at least 5 financial staff who will be most from the financial section of the Capital Construction Bureau.
The task team reviewed the capacity of the financial section of the Capital Construction Bureau and found
most financial staff had the adequate professional background. Since the financial/accounting staff are new to
the Bank financed projects, the well-designed and focused training need to be arranged to provide training to
all relevant staff. In additional, the Bank will provide as and when needed training in project financial
management.
19.    Training. Project TA component has already included financial management training. It is agreed that
training should be arranged for all relevant staff at PMO on the following: (i) Bank procedures and
requirements on the withdrawal of Bank funds; (ii) the Project financial statement formats; (iii) Project
Financial Management Manual; (iv) project audit requirements; and (v) highway sector financing and
management. Some training would be arranged by Regional Finance Bureau and PMO before project
implementation. The Project Launch Workshop would incorporate a project financial management training
component. In addition, RMC will invite the project financial staff to attend the relevant training which will be
provided by RMC and MOF in the coming year.



Page 70                                                              Project Appraisal Document
Annex 10: Review of Financial Management System                  China: Guangxi Highway Project
VIII. AUDIT ARRANGEMENTS
20.    The Bank require that annual project financial statements be audited in accordance with standards
acceptable to the Bank. In line with other Bank financed projects in China, the project will be audited in
accordance with Government Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of China (1997 edition). The
Guangxi Audit Bureau will be responsible for auditing both the Project and Participating Agencies (PMO and
GFB). No sub-Regional Audit Bureaus will be participating in the audit. The audit will be scheduled for
submission to the Bank within 6 months after the end of the calendar year. Only one consolidated project audit
will be received by the Bank.
IX. BUDGETING
21.    Project level budgeting will be incorporated with the preparation of the counterpart fund budget. The
annual budget will be prepared by the PMO and reviewed and approved by GFB and Guangxi Planning
Committee. Details of the budget preparation and approval are expected to be included in the Manual and
serve as a guide for all parties involved.
X. ISSUES/PROPOSED ACTIONS
22.    Financial Management Systems Manual. As noted in Section IV, a draft Manual has been discussed
between the task team and the project Agency during project appraisal in November 1999. The Manual covers
all the Bank's concems on the project financial management. The Manual would be finalized and available to
the project financial staff before the end of January of 2000.
23.    Staffing and Training. All financial staff should be designated when PMO is formally established. As
noted in Section VII. above, staff at the PMO should receive the necessary training before project
implementation. As of end November, the CVs of the financial staff have been received by the task team who
is satisfied with the qualification of the staff. The comprehensive project financial management training
(including software, FM Manual, disbursement) would be carried out in early April.
XI. CONCLUSION
24.    The financial management team has determined that the Project will satisfy the Bank's financial
management requirements as required by OP/BP 10.02. In terms of disbursement procedures, the Project will
be disbursing based on the traditional disbursement techniques and will not be using PMR-based
disbursements, in accordance with the agreement reached between the Bank and the China Ministry of
Finance.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 71
China: Guangxi Highway Project                     Annex 11: Summary of the Resettlement Action Plan
Annex 11: Summary of the Resettlement Action Plan
and Ethnic Minority People's Development Plan
China: Guangxi Highway Project
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
1.     The project passes through Hechi Prefecture, Nanning Prefecture and Nanning City. The project will
require (a) acquiring 24,260 mu of land, including 9,814 mu of cultivated land and 14,460 mu of non-
cultivated land and (b) demolishing 57,104 square meters of houses. Sixty-three villages in five counties and
cities will be affected to various degrees: These include 29,302 residents in 6,163 households, four government
institutions and eight enterprises. There are 5,698 households that will be affected only by land acquisition,
318 by resettlement and 132 by both land acquisition and resettlement.
2.     The RAP, which was begun in 1996, was prepared by the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Office
of Guangxi Communications Department, along with the Xi'an Highway University and the Guangxi Social
Science Academy. Also, all county and township governments and village leaders helped prepare the RAP.
The consultation process produced active feedback from the groups affected, who also helped finalize the draft
plan. Preparation included a detailed inventory of assets, census of the affected population, a review of socio-
economic conditions in the proposed project areas and a study of impacts on poverty. The draft RAP was
reviewed several times by the Bank project team and technical comments from the Bank were incorporated.
3.     The RAP was prepared according to the Land Administration Law of the People's Republic of China,
issued on January 1 1999, the World Bank OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement and OD 4.20 on Indigenous
People. The aim is to improve or at least ensure restoration of the livelihoods of those affected. Principles
include:
a) Land acquisition and resettlement should be avoided or minimized as much as possible;
b) All new houses should be resettled nearby, within the same village;
c) Resettlement plans, new sites and compensation standards should be determined after consulting
the affected population;
d) Compensation for structures should be based on replacement costs without depreciation. All
salvageable materials belong to the owners of the houses;
e) Compensation for enterprises and institutions should be based on replacement costs. Employees
should be maintained to avoidjoblessness. Workers' salary should be paid as usual, as well as
any profit loss in the event that enterprises need to shut down;.
f) Collective land redistribution among farmers will be the main thrust of the rehabilitation strategy;.
g) For severely affected villages, specific rehabilitation strategies and schemes should be developed;
h) Compensation should be paid before land is acquired and new houses are built.
4.     Based on these principles, specific schemes and arrangements were developed for (a) compensating
the different categories of eligible persons, (b) relocating households losing homes, (c) rehabilitating
enterprises, (d) restoring public facilities, and (e) restoring the livelihoods of affected farmers. Compensation
rates were discussed with various stakeholders and a disbursement channel was established in the RAP to
ensure timely and full payment to the villages and people affected. All payments are to be made before land is
acquired and new houses are built. The project impacts are spread out along the alignment, with an average of
seven households affected in each village. Thus, the plan is for all households to be moved within their own
villages. Village councils will allocate new residential sites based on consultations with those affected. The
farmers affected will be responsible for constructing their houses, as they requested. None of the affected
enterprises and institutions need to be relocated and the project will not affect their operations. All public
facilities will be compensated for the cost of reconstruction and the owner's work units will be responsible for
their reconstruction. The rehabilitation strategy for farmers whose land will be acquired is based on
reallocating village farmland and developing agriculture. Compensation for land will be paid to the affected
villages, which will redistribute the collectively-owned farmland and organize villagers to develop agriculture
programs with the land compensation. For villages that lose over 25% of their farmland, specific agricultural
schemes have been developed, consulting with the farmers. Rehabilitation measures are detailed in the RAP.



Page 72                                                                 Project Appraisal Document
Annex 11: Summary of the Resettlement Action Plan                   China: Guangxi Highway Project
5.     Guangxi Communications Department developed mechanisms to manage and implement the RAP. A
multi-level resettlement organization was established at each level of government and the RAP defined staffing
requirements and responsibilities. Mechanisms were designed to redress grievances and continue consultations
with the affected people while the RAP is implemented. Monitoring arrangements were also designed for
resettlement schemes, including internal and independent monitoring. The Guangxi Social Science Academy
will be given the contract to serve as the independent monitor.
6.     Civil works will not begin until the following is accomplished:
a) All affected individuals and enterprises are paid according to the RAP;
b) New houses and enterprises are built, and the affected people have moved into their homes;
c) Various subsidies are distributed to the affected people;
d) Affected public facilities are fully restored.
7.     Resettlement costs are estimated at 371 million yuan (US$45 million), which is about 9% of total
project costs, and will be financed by the Guangxi Autonomous Government. The resettlement budget covers
compensation, training, monitoring, management and contingencies.
Ethnic Minority Peoples Development Plan (EMDP)
8.     The project counties/cities have large concentrations of ethnic minorities, with the Zhuang accounting
for about 80% of those affected. All ethnic communities were identified during project preparation: The
social assessment reviewed their economic and cultural features, including their history, institutions, land
tenure, livelihood pattems, religious beliefs, relations with other ethnic groups, special government
development initiatives, and the legal framework for their populations. Their special needs, concerns and
suggestions were also recorded.
9.     Located in a largely minority-dominated area, the project promotes the groups' economic and social
development: Specifically, it will provide more efficient and less costly transport and facilitate ongoing
poverty alleviation programs.-/
10.    The ethnic groups, especially the Zhuang, and minority village leaders, which were consulted
extensively during project preparation, provided valuable input for the RAP: As a result, highway routes were
realigned to ensure their concerns were addressed. Further, special attention was paid to ensure that ethnic
minority officials were included in local resettlement offices and their languages were used to disseminate
information. Also, the social assessments ensured that their concerns and needs were incorporated in the RAP
and that the groups find the resettlement and rehabilitation measures acceptable. The project has been
particularly careful to develop mechanisms to continue dialogues and participation during implementation
11.    The Guangxi Social Science Academy will implement and monitor the EMDP, as a part of the RAP,
and will include an ethnic minority expert or Zhuang team members. The EMDP monitoring will be part of
the RAP monitoring report, which will be reviewed by the Guangxi Project Office and World Bank twice a
year.
6/ These include low-interest loans, development funds, grants in-kind, special funds, advice on fruit tree and forestry
development, agricultural extension services, and off-farm employment activities. Details of these activities can be found in
the EMDP.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 73
China: Guangxi Highway Project             Annex 12: Environmental Assessment Action Plan Sunrmary
Annex 12: Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary
China: Guangxi Highway Project
A. Background
1.    The environmental assessment (EA) of the Shuiren-Nanning highway (SNH) was carried out by Xian
Highway.University. Draft EA documents were reviewed by the Bank and discussed with GCD during the
preparation mission in March 1999 and the pre-appraisal mission in August 1999. The draft final
environmental impact assessment report (EIA), environmental action plan (EAP) and executive summary (ES)
for the highway were submitted to the Bank in October 1999, and found satisfactory.
2.     A sectoral environmental assessment approach was applied to the Highway Network Improvement
Program (HNIP): An initial environmental evaluation (IEE) and an EAP were prepared by the Guangxi
Environmental Protection Scientific Research Institute, submitted to the Bank in October 1999, and found
satisfactory.
3.     To carry out the EA, residents along the project route were regularly consulted, and their opinions
were reflected in the project design and environmental mitigation measures.
4.     The policy and administrative requirements for environmental assessments of development projects in
China were followed, as were the Bank's OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessments. Major PRC laws and
regulations that applied to the EA for the Guangxi Provincial Highway Project include the Environmental
Protection Law, the Atmospheric Pollution Control Law, the Environmental Noise Control Law, the Water
Pollution Control Law and the Cultural Relics Protection Law. Also followed was the Circular on
Strengthening Environmental Impact Assessment Management for Construction Projects financed by
international financial organizations.
5.     The scope of the EIA and the criteria used include the following:
a) Noise. The EA covers areas within 200 m of both sides of the alignment. Class I noise standards
(55 dB(A) in daytime and 45 dB(A) at night) were applied to schools and hospitals. Class IV
standards (70 dB(A) in daytime and 55 dB(A) at night) were applied to residential areas.
b) Air pollution. The areas covered by the EA were the same as those for noise. Class II standards
were applied.
c) Ecological conditions. If there were any sensitive areas, studies were extended to cover them,
extending over the 200 m extending from the alignment.
d) Targetyear for the predictions. Given the construction schedule, environmental predictions were
made for 2006, 2014 and 2024.
B. Brief Project Description
6.     The Guangxi Provincial Highway Project includes the following components for which environmental
assessments were needed: (a) constructing the SNH (a 140 km expressway and 97 krn Class II highway); and
(b) rehabilitating and maintaining 10 existing roads under HNIMP (about 240 km).
C. Baseline Environmental Description
7.    Natural environment. The project area belongs to a moderate sub-tropical monsoon zone, with
annual average temperatures of 20-22 'C and annual average precipitation of 1,200-1,900 mm. The proposed
alignment lies in the central and northwestern part of Guangxi Province. The terrain is high in the northwest,
with an average altitude of 600 m above sea level, and low in the southeast, with an average altitude of about
150 m. Altitudes in the northwest vary considerably, with high mountains, developed valleys and deep cliffs,
while the southeast is generally rolling and comparatively even, with vast expanses of land. Numerous
limestone mountains along the alignment form a beautiful landscape and attract tourists. The EA ensured there
were no natural habitats and environmentally protected areas or protected fauna and flora in the project area.



Page 74                                                               Project Appraisal Document
Annex 12: Environmental Assessment Action Plan Summary            China: Guangxi Highway Project
8.     Socio-economic conditions. The proposed alignment goes through (a) Nanning City, (b) Wuming,
Mashan and Duan counties, and (c) Hechi City--with a total population of around 3 million. While Nanning,
Wuming and Hechi are relatively rich in natural resources and economically development, Mashan and Duan
are relatively poor with per capita income from RMB 1,200-1,500, a figure below the Guangxi provincial
average of RMB 2,200 and greatly below the country average.
9.     Air and noise quality. Ambient air quality monitoring data at eight sites along the proposed
alignment show that CO, NOx, TSP and Pb concentrations meet Class II standards. Noise levels monitored at
11 sites along the alignment indicate that present acoustic environmental conditions will meet the noise
standards.
10.    Water quality. Ambient water quality was monitored at five rivers and two reservoirs along the
proposed alignment. Results show it generally meets Class II standards except in Diao River, which is too
polluted by industrial discharges to exceed Class V standards.
11.    Cultural relics. Based on the Guangxi Provincial Cultural Relics Authority investigation, there are no
cultural relics along the proposed alignment.
D. Potential Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures
12.    Major environmental impacts and their mitigation measures are reflected in the project documents and
summarized below.
Design Phase
13.    Analysis of alternatives. When the project was prepared, two options were considered for each of the
three sections with respect to environmental impacts. In the Diaojiang section, a shorter and straighter
alternative was selected because it will require fewer civil works, erode less soil and have less impact on the
landscape. Between the Duan and Wuming section, a shorter and straighter altemative was also selected
because it would require fewer civil works and resettlement, erode less soil, and provide more economic
benefits. In the Wuming and Nanning section, a longer altemative was selected because it will have less impact
on the landscape and bring greater economic benefits--although it will translate into more civil works and soil
erosion compared with the shorter altemative. In addition, analysis of "the situation without project" indicated
the increased traffic volume on the existing road would exceed the capacity and thus worsen environmental
conditions and traffic safety; also, it would hinder economic development.
14.    Landscape protection. To minimize the volume and areas where limestone mountains would be cut, a
detailed alignment was elaborated in the preliminary design. As a result, the amount of earth/stone work in
relation to limestone mountains was reduced by 9%, the area of excavated side slopes by 8%, and the number
of cutting sites by 7% to 61 locations when compared with those in the feasibility study. Further efforts would
be made in the design to lessen the impact on the limestone mountains. On all the cutting sites, mitigation
measures-such as restoring the vegetation--will be taken. EA reports will be examined to identify the most
effective and practical measures: To test the design, trial sections will be established in an early stage of
construction, where the environmental mitigation measures suggested in the EA, to reduce the cutting of
limestone mountains, will be applied.
15.    Social disruption. To minimize the separation of communities due to the construction in the Duan-
Nanning section, 168 underpasses (on average, at every 700 m) and 24 grade separations will be included.
16.   Irrigation system. To minimize interference with irrigation systems, 980 culverts were included.
17.    Soil erosion. Mitigation measures to minimize soil erosion were included, such as rational use of
waste soil, proper design and protection of slopes, and construction of ditches and other drainage structures.
18.    Noise and air pollution. The EIA identified 35 villages, 17 schools and one hospital that would be
affected by noise from the SNH. Thus, various measures, such as resettlement, installation of noise barriers
and afforestation, would be adopted to reduce noise (from 2004-2024). Before the highway is opened, 13
villages and two schools will be relocated and approximately 3,450 m2 of noise barriers will be built at
sensitive locations. Air quality forecasts indicate the concentration of CO and Nox will increase, but the
amount is will meet standards.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 75
China: Guangxi Highway Project               Annex 12: Environmental Assessment Action Plan Summary
19.    Water pollution. Sewage treatment facilities will be created at the service areas and toll stations.
Secondary biological treatment was also recommended
Construction Phase
20.    Air, noise and water pollution were identified as potential impacts during construction.
21.    Air pollution. Because dust was identified as a major environmental impact during the construction
of the SNH, the sites will be sprayed with water. Also, the storage site and mixing stations will be located at
least 300 m from residential areas on the leeward side.
22.    Noise. Use of heavy machinery and other construction activities will cause adverse impacts in
residential areas, particularly at environmentally sensitive sites such as schools and hospitals. Thus,
construction schedules will be strictly regulated to minimize the effects: It will be prohibited near these areas
from 10:00 p.m.-6:00 a.m.
23.    Soil erosion and irrigation systems. To minimize soil erosion and the loss of vegetation, trees and
grass will be planted. Temporary drainage systems will also be installed to protect irrigation systems.
24.    Water pollution. To prevent accidental oil spills and the discharge of polluted water from
construction sites into rivers and canals (say, when building bridges), machinery and construction boats will be
maintained. Hazardous building materials, such as oil, will be safely stored. Waste from construction sites,
including that produced in construction camps, will be handled appropriately to avoid water pollution and
sanitary problems.
25.    Cultural relics. There expect to be no cultural relics in the planned construction areas. However, if
new cultural relics are discovered during road construction or excavation activities construction will be halted
local cultural property authorities will be informed, and the sites will be surveyed and appropriate measures
taken.
Operations Phase
26.    Noise and air pollution. Noise barriers or other preventive measures will be installed at locations
where noise exceeds the standards, based on the monitoring. Permanent buildings, including schools and
hospitals, will not be constructed within 100 m of the expressway.
27.    Vehicle management. Maintenance/management will be improved to keep vehicles in good
condition. Vehicle noise and emission inspections will be strengthened. If vehicles do not comply with the
noise and/or emission standards, they will not be approved until the problems are rectified. Exhaust emissions
will be inspected periodically and randomly. Awareness and education programs will be promoted to
familiarize the public with the problem of air and noise pollution from vehicles and with related regulations.
E. Environmental Monitoring
28.    During the construction and operations phases, the environment will be monitored to identify
unexpected problems at an early stage and adjust environmental measures, as needed. An annual monitoring
report will be fumished to the Bank by January 31 of each year, starting in 2001 during the construction phase,
and for each of the first three years after construction is completed.
Construction Phase
29.    Noise and TSP will be regularly measured at major sensitive sites along the SNH. To determine water
quality, COD, SS and oil will be monitored. Detailed information about monitoring activities such as
frequency, sites and methods is included in the EAP.
Operations Phase
30.    Noise, air quality (NOx, CO and TSP) and water quality (COD, SS and oil) will be monitored at major
sensitive sites. Detailed information about monitoring activities such as frequency, sites and methods is
included in the EAP.



Page 76                                                              Project Appraisal Document
Annex 12: Environmental Assessment Action Plan Summary            China: Guangxi Highway Project
F. Institutional Arrangements and Training
31.    GCD will be responsible for overall environmental protection, the Guangxi Capital Construction
Bureau (GCCB) will be in charge of implementing the EAP during construction, and the Guangxi High Class
Highway Management Company (HHMC) will take the lead once the highway is operating (it will have seven
environmental experts). *GCCB will be assisted by three environmental experts and 12 supervisors. During
construction and operations, the Environmental Monitoring Station of Guangxi Province will monitor the
environment. Staff at all levels will be trained: 43 will be trained at home or abroad, for which about 1 million
RMB will be allocated.
G. Environmental Aspects of HNIMP
32.    The IEE and EAPs for the HNIMP describe: (a) the project; (b) environmental conditions at project
areas; (c) potential impacts and mitigation measures; and (d) environmental management activities. With
respect to "a," the HNIMP includes 10 road segments totaling 240 km. No new road construction works are
included in the HNIMP and no land acquisition is envisaged. With respect to "b," of 10 roads, five are in
poverty areas where agriculture is the major industry; two are close to Beihai port, and three are in the
southeast of the province. The project areas include no natural protection zones or cultural property. Since
construction works in all HNIMP subprojects are small, no significant environmental impacts are expected.
Potential impacts would be ordinary issues caused by civil works, such as noise and dust pollution during
construction, which are short-term and temporary. With respect to "c," mitigation measures such as strict
control of noisy construction machinery and water spraying were included in the EAPs. Environmental
monitoring will be carried out at sensitive locations such as nearby schools and hospitals. If future noise levels
exceed standards, preventive measures will be taken. GCD will be responsible for managing environmental
conditions for this project.
H. Public Consultation and Information Disclosure
33.    Public consultation andfeedback. During the EA, local residents were regularly consulted. This
involved: (a) meetings with residents, council representatives, local governments and enterprises; and
(b) public opinion questionnaires and interviews. Besides resettlement-related issues, the public was
concerned about adverse impacts on living conditions caused by noise and dust, and asked for mitigation
measures, particularly at schools. These concems were integrated in the engineering designs and EAP.
34.   Information disclosure. A final EIA, EAP and ES were submitted to the Bank in October 1999 and
made public at GCD. An official letter granting the Bank permission to release the EIA to the public was
received and the documents are being sent to the PIC.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 77
China: Guangxi Highway Project                              Annex 13: Documents in the Project File
Annex 13: Documents in the Project File*
China: Guangxi Highway Project
A.  Project Implementation Plan, November 1999
B.  Feasibility Studies
* Feasibility Study Report (Shuiren-Nanning Highway), June 1998
+ Revised FS Report with updated OD Survey, March 1999
* Supplemental FS Report, July 1999
C.  Environment (EIA, EAP, Summary)
+   Summary of Environmental Impact Assessment Implementation, October 1999
+   Environmental Protection Implementation Plan, October 1999
+   Environmental Assessment Statement, October 1999
D.  Resettlement and Social Assessment
+   Poverty Impact and Social Assessment Report, July 1999
+   Resettlement Action Plan, November 1999
* Ethnic Minority Development Plan, October 1999
E.  Institutional Strengthening and Training, November 1999
F.  Economic and Financial Report
+   Report of Economic/Financial Evaluation and Evaluation of the Project, November 1999
G.  Highway Maintenance Improvement Component, November 1999
H.  Equipment Procurement Report, August 1999
I.  Request for Proposals for Consultant's Services for Supervision of Construction of Shuiren-Nanning
Highway, June 1999
J.  Prequalification Document for Civil Works, October 1999
K.  Report on the Preparation of Highway Safety Component, November 1999
L.  Review of Engineering Designs and Bidding Documents, Phase I Final Report, July 1999; Phase II Final
Report, November 1999
M. Financial Management Assessment Report and Format for Financial Statement
N.  Financial Manual
0.  Procurement Capacity Assessment and Procurement Manual
*Including electronic files.



Page 78                                                                                                                                         Project Appraisal Document
Annex 14: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                                                                   China: Guangxi Highway Project
Annex 14: Statement of Loans and Credits
China: Guangxi Highway Project
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
Closed Projects: 102
Board                                                                 Last PSR                                                                        Difference Between
Date                          Actl  Pro'ets                    Supervision Rating b/                    Original Amount in USS Millions              Expected and Actual
Fiscal                          ctve  ojec                Development    Implementation                                                                Disbursements4'
Year                                                       Objectives         Progress          IBRD           IDA         Cancel.      Undisb.       Orig.     Frm Rev'd
1992      P003624      CN-INFECTIOUS DISEASES                    HS                 S                      0        131.71             0        23.4        18.39        18.35
1992      P003568      TIANJIN URB DEV & EN                      HS                 S                      0        100.57             0        12.53        9.25         2.22
1992      P003534      ZHEJIANG PROV TRANSP                       S                 S                   220              0             0       19.75        19.75        18.75
1993      P003559      AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI                       S                 U                      0        114.94             0        4.47        -4.55            0
1993      P003632      ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                       S                 S                      0         48.54             0         9.67        9.88         6.02
1993      P003623      FINANCIAL SECTOR T.A                       S                 S                      0         57.76             0        18.12       18.86         8.93
1993      P003627      GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                       S                 S                   325         162.42             0      273.73       274.32        -1.88
1993      P003518      GUANGDONG PROV. TRANSPORT                  S                 S                   240              0             0         1.32        1.32          0.3
1993      P003581      HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT                      S                 S                    120             0             0         6.55        6.55            0
1993      P003570      RAILWAY VI                                 S                 S                   420              0             0       48.34        48.34       -26.41
1993      P003592      REF. INST'L.& PREINV                       S                 S                      0         48.77             0         16.4       16.17            0
1993      P003561      SICHUAN ADP                                S                 S                      0        147.13             0         0.74        -4.7            0
1993      P003580      SO.JIANGSU ENVIRON. PROTECT.               S                 S                    250             0             0         3.25        2.05            0
1993      P003597      TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CO                       S                 S                    100         99.89             0       23.83        19.46         0.01
1993      P003616      TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                        S                HS                    300             0             0         65.4        55.1            0
1993      P003533      TIANJIN IND. II                            S                 S                    150             0         40.35         7.81       43.16          3.3
1993      P003473      ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES                       S                 S                      0        108.81             0         13.7       13.01            0
1994      P003502      CN-RURAL HEALTH MANPOWER                   S                 S                      0        109.04             0        16.79       13.14            0
1994      P003557      FOREST RESOURCE DEV                        S                 S                      0        194.67             0       22.51         7.64       -37.77
1994      P003626      FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                        S                 S                    140             0             0        53.36       49.36        25.28
1994      P003504      HEBEI/HENAN NATIONAL                       S                 S                    380             0             0        16.51       16.51            0
1994      P003540      LOESS PLATEAU                              S                 S                      0        145.85             0        18.01      -18.44            0
1994      P003595      RED SOILS II DEVELOP                       S                 S                      0        148.86             0       31.54        17.13         -3.26
1994      P003586      SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT                       S                 S                    160             0             0       54.64        53.24            0
1994      P003609      SICHUAN GAS DEV &                          S                 S                    255             0             0       95.09        64.59            0
CONSERVATION
1994      P003593      SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                         S                 S                      0        202.86             0        18.99       -3.38            0
1994      P003633      TELECOMMUNICATIONS                        HS                HS                    250             0            30         13.8        43.8          0.4
1994      P003562      XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE                   HS                 S                   460              0             0         0.25        4.78            0
1994      P003644      XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                    S                 S                      0        109.63             0         23.4       14.19            0
1994      P003641      YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                       S                 S                    350             0             0        59.87       59.27            0
1995      P003636      CN-BASIC EDUC IN POOR &                    U                 U                      0         95.03             0         1.01        2.44            0
MINORITY AREA II
1995      P003634      CN-MATERNAL CHILD HEALT                   HS                HS                      0         85.03             0        13.58       16.08            0
1995      P003647      ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                        S                 S                      0          9.47             0         5.33        5.76            0
1995      P003603      ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE                       S                 S                   275          73.07            20      172.71       160.28        18.26
1995      P036041      FISCAL & TAX REF. &                        S                 S                     25          23.1             0       40.38        41.95        -0.89



Project Appraisal Document.                                                                                                                                    Page 79
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                                                                              Annex 14: Statement of Loans and Credits
Board                                                             Last PSR                                                                     Difference Between
Date                         Active Projects                Supervision Rating b/                  Original Amount in US$ Millions            Expected and Actual
Fiscal                                                 Development   Implementation                                                             Disbursements '
Year                                                    Objectives        Progress         IBRD           IDA        Cancel.      Undisb.      Orig.     Frm Rev'd
1995      P037156    ID-IODINE DEFICIENCY DISORDERS            S                S                     7         17.35           7          0.9       10.56        3.56
CONTROL
1995      P003493    INLAND WATERWAYS                          S                S                  210             0            0        38.57       -7.63           0
1995      P003598     LIAONING ENVIRONMENT                     S                S                   110            0            0        54.55       52.55           0
1995      P003571     RAILWAYS VII                             S                S                  400             0           29       332.64      255.64       25.33
1995      P003585     SHENYANG IND. REFORM                     S                S                   175            0            0        69.74      44.64            0
1995      P036947     SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                     S                S                  270             0            0       119.75      117.25           0
1995      P003639     SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                    HS                S                  47.5        176.97           0        72.68       45.61           0
1995      P003600     TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                     S                S                  200             0            0        98.52       55.42           0
1995      P003612     XINJIANG HIGHWAY I                       S                S                   150            0            0        20.67       20.67           0
1995      P003596     YANGTZE BASIN WATER                      S                S                   100        102.18           0        10.27      -12.01           0
1995      P003642    ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                       S               HS                429.69            0             0      105.28      -10.68           0
1996      P040513     2ND HENAN PROV  HWY                      S                S                  210             0            0       161.54       76.54           0
1996      P003652     2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY                     S                S                   210            0            0       111.25       59.25           0
1996      P003563     ANIMAL FEED                              U                U                   150            0            0       133.78      129.18       43.78
1996      P003646     CHONGQING IND POL CT                     S               HU                   170            0        153.99       15.61       132.1         1.6
1996      P036950     CN-BASIC ED. POOR III                    S                S                     0         92.34           0         2.36       -2.86           0
1996      P003589     CN-DISEASE PREVENTION                    S                S                     0         92.01            0        59.1       59.98           0
1996      P034618     CN-LABOR MARKET DEV.                     S                S                    10         18.42           0        22.02       23.51           0
1996      P003507     ERTAN HYDRO il                           S               HS                386.84            0             0       13.93       -6.51           0
1996      P003594     GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                      S                U                    60         84.89           0         116        33.21           0
1996      P003602     HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO                     U                U                   125         23.08        28.32       84.44       87.04           0
1996      P003648    SECOND SHANGHAI SEWERAGE                  S               HS                   250            0            0       133.06       96.76           0
PROJECT
1996      P003638     SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                     S                S                    80         18.93           0        64.19       26.73           0
1996      P003569     SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG Hi                     S                S                   260            0          7.75       78.35        38.1        30.1
1996      P003649     SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                     S                S                     0         92.34           0        29.24        4.77           0
1996      P003599    YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT                        S                S                   125         23.87           0       137.66       44.14           0
1997      P036952     CN-BASIC ED. IV                          S                S                     0         84.48           0        26.61      -19.28           0
1997      P003635    CN-VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                   S                S                    10         18.98           0         6.89       -0.97           0
1997      P038988     HEILONGJIANG ADP                         S                S                   120            0            0        75.06       11.96           0
1997      P003654     HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2                     S                S                  400             0             0      284.31      104.31           0
1997      P003637     NATL RUR WATER III                       S                S                     0         70.68            0       60.55       19.93        8.22
1997      P003590     QINBA MTS. POVTY RED                     S                S                    30        149.31            0      126.49       32.05           0
1997      P044485     SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                      S                S                  400             0            0       361.22       15.92           0
1997      P003650     TUOKETUO POWER/INNER                     S                S                  400             0           24       348.18      215.58        -2.19
1997      P036405     WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                     S                S                  400             0             0      293.43       53.43        0 0
1997      P034081     XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II                     HS               S                414.11            0            0       266.52      127.31           0
1997      P003643     XINJIANG HIGHWAYS II                     S                S                  300             0            0       211.52       95.52           0
1998      P003619    2ND INLAND WATERWAYS                      S                S                   123            0            0       115.63      29.65            0



Page 80                                                                                                                              Project Appraisal Document
Annex 14: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                                                        China: Guangxi Highway Project
Board                                                           Last PSR                                                                   Difference Between
Date                                                       Supervision Rating b/                Original Amount in US$ Millions           Expected and Actual
Fiscal                       Active Project           Development I Implementation                                                          Disbursements*
Year                                                   Objectives       Progress        IBRD          IDA         Cancel.  I Undisb.      Orig.    Frm Revd
1998     P003566    CN-BASIC HEALTH                          S               S                    0         86.54           0       80.09        7.75           0
1998     P051736     E. CHINA/JIANGSU PWR                    S                S                 250             0           0      238.96      164.02           0
1998     P003606    ENERGY CONSERVATION                      S               S                   63             0           0        61.8        5.48           0
1998     P046952    FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                     S                S                  100       102.24           0      193.02        9.75        28.5
1998     P036414    GUANGXI URBAN ENV.                       S                S                   72        20.46           0       88.45        6.93           0
1998     P003614    GUANGZ. CITY CRT.TRP                     S               S                  200             0           0      149.13       19.41           0
1998     P056491     HEBEI EARTHQUAKE                       HS               HS                    0        28.82           0        0.44      -10.87           0
1998     P035698    HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                     S                S                 300             0           0         300        46.5           0
1998     P049700    IAIL-2                                   S                S                 300             0           0      249.28       23.18           0
1998     P036949    NAT.HWY 3-HUBEI                          S                S                 250             0           0      213.93       13.93           0
1998     P040185    SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                     S               U                    95            0           0       82.92       35.72           0
1998     P003591     STATE FARMS COMMERCI                    S               S                   150            0           0       94.93      -15.67           0
1998     P003539    SUST COAST RES DEV                       S               S                   100            0           0       89.12        4.12           0
1998     P046563    TARIM BASIN li                           S                S                  90         61.27           0      131.41       17.04           0
1998     P045788    TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY                       S                S                 230             0           0       203.5          50           0
1999     P057352    4TH RURAL WATER SUPP                     S                S                   16        30.41            0      46.25        1.84           0
1999     P051856    ACCNTG REFORM & DEV                      S                S                 27.4         5.61           0       32.74        9.79           0
1999     P050036    ANHUI PROVINCIAL HWY                     S               S                  200             0           0         188        19.4           0
1999     P049665    ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV                     S                S                   90        29.43           0       103.29       0.76           0
1999     P036953    CN-HEALTH IX                             S                S                   10        50.49           0       60.49        3.38           0
1999     P046051     CN-HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                  S                S                  20          50.6           0        65.4         1.8           0
1999     P058308    CN-PENSION REFORM PJT                    S                S                    0         5.08           0        5.08        1.78           0
1999     P003653    CONTAINER TRANSPORT                      S                S                   71            0            0      70.29       29.89           0
1999     P060270    ENTERPRISE REFORM LN                     S                S                    0         5.08           0        5.08        2.02           0
1999     P051705    FUJIAN II HWY                            S                S                 200             0            0        198          12           0
1999     P051888    GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                     S                S                   80        20.14            0      99.34        15.4           0
1999     P041890    LIAONING URB TRANSP                      S                S                  150            0            0       148.5       25.5           0
1999     P056216    LOESS PLATEAU II                         S                S                  100        50.68            0      149.68         19           0
1999     P041268    NAT.HWY4-HUBEI/HUNAN                     S                S                  350            0            0      346.5          13           0
1999     P046829    RENEWABLE ENERGY                         S                S                  100            0            0        100           0           0
DEVELOPMENT
1999     P043933    SICHUAN URB. ENV. I                      S                S                  150         2.06            0     152.06           2           0
1999     P042299    TEC COOP CREDIT IV                       S               S                    10        35.26            0      45.16        -0.1           0
1999     P046564    WESTERN POVERTY RED                      S                S                   60       101.26            0      161.26       16.6           0
1999     P063123    YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGY                     S                S                  40         39.74           0       51.21       11.66           0
2000     P045264    SMALLHLDR CATTLE DEV                     S                S                 93.5            0            0        93.5          0           0
2000     P056424    TONGBAI PUMPED STORA                                                         320            0            0        320           0         ' 0



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                        Page 81
China: Guangxi Highway Project                                                                        Annex 15: Country at a Glance
Annex 15: Country at a Glance
China: Guangxi Highway Project
China at a glance                                                                      9/2199
East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                 Asla&        Low-
China     Pacific   Income       Development dlamond
1998
Population. mid-year (millions)                         1,238,6      1,817     3S15                    Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                         750        990        520
GNP (Atlas method. US$ billions)                         928.9       1,802      1,844
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                              1.0        1.2        1.7
Labor force (%                                              1.3        1.6        1.9     GNP                                 Gross
per                         -' primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avalable, 1992-98)                                      capita                          enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)        6
Urban population (% of total population)                    33         35         31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                            70         69         63
infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                    32         37         69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                  16         20          ..                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (Id otpopulation)                      83         77         74
Illiteracy I% ofpopulation age 75.)                         17         15         32
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)       120        117        108        -    China         Low-incomegroup
Male                                                     120        119        113
Female                                                   120        118        103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987        1997      199S E$                                  -
Economic ratios,
GOP (USS billions)                              172.3    268.2       902.0     960.9
Gross domestic investmentGDOP                    28.5     36.1        38.2       38.8
Exports of goods and services/GDP                 4.8      13.6       23.0       19.                       Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                       29.0      36.2       42.6       43.4
Gross national savings/GDP                       29.0     36.2        41.5      414                           7
Current account balancelGDP                       0.2       0.1        3.8        3 4e
Interest payments/GDP                               -      0.4         0.6        0.7     Domestic                        I Investment
Total debt/GDP                                     ..      13.2       16.3       16.2     Savings
Total debt service/exports                         ..       9.6        9.8        9.5
Present value of debtuGDP                           ..       ..       14.9
Present value of debt/exports                      ..        6. 82.7
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98      1997        1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                     9.8      10.3       8.8        7.8        7.0
GNP per capita                          8.5       8.8       7.4        6.5        6.2            China          Low-income group
Exports of goods and services          18.4      14.4      23.1        4.6        4.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987        1997      1998       Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agricullure                                      29.4      26.8       18.7       18.0
Industry                                         47.1     43.9        49.5       49.2    20
Manufacturing                                  31.1      34.4       37.3       36.8     |
Services                                         23.4      29.3       32.1       32.8      o.      l     l
Private consumption                              63.4     51.3        45.7       44.5             93   94    95    96   97   9a
General govemment consumption                     7.5      12.5       11.6       11.9
Imports of goods and services                     4.2      13.5       18.5       14.3                  0GD           GDP
1977-87  1988-98        1997      1998       Growth rates of exports and Imports I%i
(average annual growth)GrwhrtsoexrsanImrst%
Agriculture                                       6.4       4.4        3.5        3.5    40
Industry                                         10.9      14.1       10.8        9.2     o.
Manufacturing                                  11.4      13.4        9.9        8.9         T
Services                                         12.7      8.6         8.2        7.6     °-
Private consumption                               9.7       8.6        7.7        6.7  ..
General government consumption                    9.0       9.9        8.2        8.4     o
Gross domestic investment                        10.7     11.7         7.6        7.6            93    94    95    93   97   9B
Imports of goods and services                    19.2      12.5       12.7        1.5               -Expons    '.O-Imports
Gross national product                           10.0      10.0        8.5        7.4
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 82                                                                                               Project Appraisal Document
Annex 15: Country at a Glance                                                                   China: Guangxi Highway Project
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                   ..      7.3        2.8       -0.8     20
Implicit GDP' deflator                           1.6      5.1        1.2       -1.3
10
Governmentrinanco
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                      o         -   94    95   98    97
Current budget balance                                    4.2        0.6       -22                     GDP deflator 2CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                  -2.1       -1.5       -4.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                 1977      1987       1997      1998       Exportand import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                               *-  39,437    182,792   183.757       200.000 T
Food                                            ..    4781       11,075    10,619
Fuel                                            ..   4.544        6,987     5,181     1so.00.
Manufactures                                    ..  26.206    158,838   163.157
Total imports (cif)                                *   43,216    142,370   140.166      1X.000.
Food                                            .. 3.055  6.308  6,463    L oofh0
Fuel and energy                                 ..      539      10.306     6.773
Capital goods                                   ..  21,110       57.930    61.915 o
Export price index (1995=100)                     ..       75         95        89              92  93   94  99  98  97  98
Import price index (1995=100)                      ..      75         92        89                   aExports       mimports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                          ..      99        104       100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                 1977      1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDPratio(%)
Exports of goods and services                  8.550   39,120    207,251   207,589      4
Imports of goods and services                  8,148   38,880    166.754   165 900        T
Resource balance                                402       240     40.497    41689       2                               *    *
Net income                                       82      -215    -11.097   -13428           *                            |  I, U
Net current transfers                           -70       224      5.144     4 278
Current account balance                         414       249     34.544    32,540    -2               84 T         6   9
Financing items (net)                          -320    4.534       1,313   -26,114
Changes in net reserves                         -94   -4,783    -35,857    -64426      I4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)            ..  22.500    147,000
Conversion rate (DEC, locaUUSS)                  1.9      4.5        8.3        8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              ..  35,340    146,697   156,105
IBRD                                            ..   1.427       8,239     9.610
IDA                                                   1,330      7.830     8,693                29473     9610                  l
Total debt service                                 ..   3,852     18.445    13,009                                     3946
IBRD                                            ..      208        858       940
IDA                                                      12         81        972182
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                 ..      209        228
Official creditors                              ..      626      4,315     2,282     |X, 
Private creditors                                -    5,462      8,134       916
Foreign direct investment                       ..   2,314      44,236    45,000     |-----|
Portfolio equity                                ..        0      8.457     1,153                    82521
World Bank program
Commitments                                     *-    1306       2,425     2,636      A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                   *-      702      2,275     2.061      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral    F - Private
Principal repayments                            ..       97        377       434      C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                       ..      605      1,898      1,627
Interest payments                               ..      124        562       602
Net transfers                                    .      482      1.335      1,024
Development Economics                                                                                                        9/2/99



IBRO 30387
70 '                        80'                         900                         10'                       110                         120'                         1300
50                                               RUSSIAN  FEDERATION                                                f .             h
KAZAKHSTAN                                                   'L .             S
'   '- '-'   \.                                                               t        '-              )            /HEILONGJIANG
UZREK15TAN
\      --\    -                                         /                          MONGO                                                    r  LIA_/
rUZBEKISTAN   t   )                          t                        ~~~~M O  N G O  L I A                                   r.    1.,,k                                  i
_,  + J  +a-aDshvongsl<n *>. i- >4.4X1G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~CHUN t
R        %r>KYRGYZ      .-      rf                                           .                                                          -      I     °                               J
'REPUBLIC              -                                                                                                                      i-
- 2 xt Do X j N) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA                                                                                                 NO   G  '- OEMSap
4, Nh MDa 0l TMw^Y                                       t                                                4r  D E           J   7  SHIJ HU1ANSHEBE           m ,E.                       . -XI A  r  wo
coh, dno leeflons nnd >, Q t N G ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H                                                                  AREP ,                                     J.s sF
Li                  E,~ KORE A
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1,poT,lw W.. L,,8               - ..  ,      ,     _       .                                                                    ;I s  Hi  `\w ND. O
iT 101¢ ,I                        C1HA'L                                     HAN3ZEO1.  -7              t        aSS
GUANGXI HIGH WAY PROJECT                                                                    hooAN                 F  n-  9~                   .3 FUWANGX *0HO0
-C DOM LEHGWTED                           °    SELECTELD TOWfNS                fJN          NT;_        iNGXI .f  .INGDONG>po  
®    PEOEINCECALOEL   N    G      LNAN H                                OX '1               GDN
UNPERl CONSTRE1CTION                  i)   NATIONAL CAPITAIE                  q         ,                                   0,-\     r lGAT - u  h n'u-^ 
PLANNED BEFORE 2005 -                            PROVINCE BONDAIESK
PLANNEO AFTER 2os0-   -  INTERNATIONA LBOUNDARIES                      z    - L*\             |VIETNsAMv  T5                         - f-LCONG0M                                            0
E~  ~ ~ \ {; <_             gr^;            >      Farddola,~o     0     190   200  300   400   SOOMILtEs
2D     1 LAO PEOPLE S                                                   6\.,>H2C    200  400    600    800 KILOMETERS
G-P,  44-, A,                                                                                              s       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOE   RP   
THLAILAN                                          HANAN                                         PHILIPPINES
___. _    _    .                                                    10D°  j  .   J~~~~~ \   t \  .               105  1~ 20~                                            /
FEBRUAEY F00E






IBRD 30388
CHINA
GUANGXI HIGHWAY PROJECT-PRPSDHLENNNiGOWA
----HIGHWAYS UDRCNTUTO
SHUIREN - NANNING HIGHWAY ANDPLNE/ROSDHGWY
ROAD IMPROVEMENT SECTIONS IN POVERTY AREAS                                                                                                                        Loeghn                         3                                                            151GITRHNE
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3DSIGITRHNE
D3 PROPOSED INTERCHANGES
O46 proposd highway of
L                                                               a                             34                                                                                                                hi Ohainerri to Nanoing~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.6 5hiI .N-~
GUIZhIou ~~~~~~~~~~~3OanoTh. total lengh: 236.0 kar
-                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sirairan to Du'oe-96.R lan lobes II)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hi-t D'.-6.  . c-  1
p                                                                                                         ;j'-e  ~~~~          #   Rongon          -                             -      --                                                       Soon to ~~~~ui.dN-ning-l 39.2 l6 leap--awy)
T.~~~3e3ei  C                         Huonjinng                                                           l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-l              04:a3J.a                      ' ~~~~(..fuThe tota length: 95.5 km
LI  .                                                        Tooc                        a.                    to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i L.iu_hoa highway
I  Li~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ch- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The totl length: 202.1 km
)osaa.                      -    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~               34,                                           .~~~~~~.                Planned highway of Noenieg to Tanlue~~~~~0 I.-l ig-Y   N-ig 1 Tlu
TI   Lie5n  & --"                                                                                                                                                                                                       The tota lent 58.2k
jan13  "~~~~~~a'                                          .                                                              Mengsho%.                                      f3~~~~~~~~~~CY3~~~         Eron,ch-1 lin: Shipo to Xijing
~  ..'E m   TooSe100                                                                                                                            ig       .The tota length: 11.3 km
Xll.hfn' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~zf    Planned highway of N-oiag to Y-ayiga-
F    :   - a r   .    .      (     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h Ttotallength: 100.1 km
0 The ,proosd highway
YUNNAN                                                   Ioyn               42        2           Ms    n:<                                        ~     .                                    4.                                                            n~  oLaig        t  heo
0271             ~~~~~~Wuoo I                                                         /        a0 -                            The total leng.~th: 37.2 km
.P.~  ~ ~Sea                     a                              a             s ha glin                            anr..                                     T
* -.  -  (-K                                                                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HIGHWAY NETWORK MAINTENANCE
I        -~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~AND IMPROVEMENT SECTIONS IN
¼]'  OTiodepo  .                                                                   3                   1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U ~~POVERTY AREAS:
*,   VIETNA                             "    a2>an                                                                                                                                                                                                                O Bs-ini
0324: K(1977..26--K(2047.26
US&oda,a wn dan:aaaaaaawsak'oaa                       3G323: K(1 258--KLl 276
a7'.            -M4~~~~                  COUNlYCAPITAG                      0   ~~~~~Dohoo Connecting Road
__________________________________________________________                                                                                                           3     .           *                    C     PEEPEC...TPREFE ET CAPITALSALS          K-1-K6
RUSSIAN  3                            -1                                                                                                                                 . Lcho                               lg    PROVINCE CAPITAL                   0    Mashon Connecting Road
PEDERATOW3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      --KA2N34e2kl~lI
-  '"~~~~    71,I   -    <~~~Pin,                                                                                                                                                                    PROVINCE HIGHWAYS           ~            itn-Wu1i
MONGOLIIA      a                               to-                                                                                                                                                                 NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                       00   (17124
D~~~~~~~~,.* 8f                                                                                                                                      R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  a-''   A [ROADS         29K18K17
- -~..RIVERS                                0209: K32310-1K3330
Z.                                                            ji-9~~~~J~anag                                COUNTY BOUNDASIES 
I                                  U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IC 20 20 40 30 006Ei                                                          .                                                       jg       .     PREFECTUJREEBOUNDARIES                  G324:1K1510--K1551
344~~~~~~~~,                           IS~~~~~~KLOMErER                                                                                                                                         .-POVNERIIDRE                                 Wulin-Hepu
toiN. labl         *3- - INTERNATIONAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         02:16.-(5
---P aiearae           .      .Bells   Gulf                                                                                                                                                                                               UOUNDARIES                               Wming4-Luox-
-. - Intonolionol Baandorim    cat0&o  ¼/Il                                                                               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                520323:1(10-1(30~~S2323 K0-K3
PEBRUARY T






IBRD 30389
GUIZHOU                                   %./     'HUNAN
CHINA                                                                                                                                                 ".7
GUANGXI HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                                 .               '-'.
SHUIREN - NANNING HIGHWAY                                                                                               I'                 - .<'
&\j+J  .o,,s,,1  ,    Shuire  a  chi   5                             ; ,,
PROPOSED SHUIREN -NANNING HIGHWAY (EXPRESSWAY)                                            0   SELECTED TOWNS                                                                             of M ap                   0 Li-h.
PROPOSED SHUIREN -NANN NG HIGHWAY (CLASS11 ROAD)                                         0    COUNTY CAPITALS                                               YUNNAN                    Hose iT                                                C
1      PROPOSED INTERCHANGES                                                                                                                                        YUPREPECTURE CAPITAL                                                     U
21    EXIST NG NATIONAL HIGHWAY                                                                       PROVINCE CAPITAL
EXIST NG PROVINCE HIGHWAYS                                                                                                                                             H                                                                       T    o
COUNTY ROADS                                                                                                       -/                                                            -         NAN
,,,,s-c-.  RAILROAD                                                                                     INSET                                                                                                               <    .
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                                     VIETNAM            . I
-  -  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                 V                                                  k
-  .-INTERNATIONAL EOUNDARY                                                              -                        aF
Rf*Beibu GUlf         
Yr. copwapS df A.Wb4 sbUmITh.WcddBc.L 
Gcop. b ctd nss,loc. R4(W1400dhn* a,er h ' [ smh 'H
vs                                                                                                                                    4
: S ( < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~end oF
(startuof S                                              | Fuchengren-Nanningge |                                    m  
ToGuk                                                         K250ao   -  <  1   9 ~ > \    )  _ A L              <SP E
)   L20324t g                                         |w~~~~~~~~~~uming Interchugl     t       f          \ 
X                                                        3     | Xiji~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ng Intercange  
|                                                                                                                                                                                                        FEbRUARY 2OXX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FBUR 



