Report No. PID7632
Project Name                     China-Guangxi Highway Project (@)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Transport
Project ID Number                CNPE58843
Borrower(s)                      The People's Republic of China
Beneficiary                      The government of Guangxi Autonomous Region
Implementing Agency              Guangxi Communication Department
Environment Category             A
Date this PID prepared           January 2000
Tentative Board Date             March 2000
Project Cost/Financing
IBRD                             US$200 m
Central Government               US$107 m
Guangxi government               US$260 m
Total                            US$567 m
Country and Sector Background
1.      China's strong and sustained economic growth over the last 20 years has
resulted in transport demand grew faster than the capacity and ability of
the system to deal with it. However, China has historically under-invested
in transport (less than 1.3t of GDP during 1980s compared to 3t in 1998) and
its road network ranks among the sparsest in the world relative to geographic
area and population. A few inter-provincial expressways have been built to
date and about 20 percent of rural communities have no all-weather vehicular
access. In recent years, governments at all levels have embarked on a major
highway capital investment and improvement program.
2.      Started in early 1990's the focus of the national highway investment
strategy is to complete the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS) of some
35,000 km of high-grade highways by 1998-2015 at a total costs of US$150
billion. Government attaches high priority to completing two north-south,
two east-west corridors and several corridors serving border areas and cross-
border trade.   The Ministry of Communications (MOC) has been developing the
NTHS, consisting of 12 inter-provincial trunk expressways, spanning China and
connecting the countries 100 biggest cities.   At the provincial and county
levels, the strategy is to concentrate on the expansion, upgrading and
maintenance of national, provincial and rural road networks, to provide
greater mobility and to stimulate socioeconomic development.
3.      In 1997 China invested US$13 billion in highways of which US$0.7 billion
was in World Bank loans (or about 59-). In 1998, to support the government's
economic stimulus program (8 percent growth rate), highway spending was
raised to US$26 billion, a 100%- increase from 1997. Some 55%- of this
investment (or US$14 billion) was allocated to NTHS construction, 30%- (or



US$8 billion) to provincial road development and the remaining 15t (US$4
billion) to rural road improvement. World Bank lending for highways in 1998
reached US$0.68 billion (or about 2.5w of the total). Annual multi- and
bilateral lending to the sector in recent years is about US$1.2-1.5 billion,
with about 45 percent from the World Bank, 30 percent from ADB and the
remaining 25 percent from JBIC (the new entity after the merge of OECF and J-
EXIM Bank).
4.      The Bank has prepared a highway sector strategy report dated February
1994 (CHINA - Highway Development and Management Issues, Options and
Strategies) which forms the basis for World Bank assistance in the sector.
The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for China, presented to the
Board on March 18, 1997 and the progress note presented on May 28, 1998
supports China's needs to rapidly modernize and expand its highway system. A
major objective of the China CAS is to alleviate infrastructure bottlenecks
and to overcome regional disparities.
The Project province
5.      Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, located due south, is bordered with
Guangdong, Yunnan, Hunan, and Guizhou provinces. It also has an
international border with Vietnam and has three coastal sea ports in its
southern tip of the region at Fangcheng, Beihai, and Qinzhou. The region,
with a population of 47.11 million and an area of 236,660 sq.km, is still
among the poorer provinces of China with a per capita income in 1997 of RMB
4,350 (US$524) which is about 71t of the country's average of RMB 6,080
(US$733). However, development in Guangxi in recent years has been
encouraging with growth rates of over 10t during the past 4 years.    Although
it has a relatively short coastal line, it provides the shortest sea exit to
those land-lock provinces in the southwest region of the country including
Guizhou, Yunnan, Sichuan and Chongqing. With the central government policy
emphasizing the need for providing sea exit to those land-lock provinces,
development of its high-grade highway system has been accelerated since 1990.
The completed length of Class I highway and expressway increase from 8 km in
1990 to over 100 km in 1997 while an additional 200 km are still under
construction to be completed by end of 2000.
Project Development Objectives
6.      The development objectives of the project is to assist the Guangxi
government to strengthen the local institutional capacity, and provide an
efficient, safe and cost effective inter-provincial transport link among
land-locked hinterland provinces of Guizhou, Yunnan, Sichuan and the city of
Chongqing with Guangxi and the coastal province of Guangdong. This will help
stimulate the social and economic development of these provinces, reduce the
poverty conditions and thus improve regional development disparity situation.
Project Description
7.      The investment under the project will include the following components:
Highway capacity expansion focusing on the construction of the 236km of NTHS
connecting Shuiren and Nanning and its interconnecting sections of road.
Highway Network and Improvement and Maintenance Program (HNIMP) to support
and improve the much needed maintenance work on secondary and tertiary
highway network - half of which are in relatively poor areas of Guangxi.
-2 -



Highway safety component focusing on black spot improvement on some selected
road sections pre-identified as critical for safety concerns.
Strengthening Highway management Capacity of GCD through various support and
training aiming to improve the quality of planning, design, construction
supervision, project management, environmental and resettlement monitoring,
operation and maintenance of highways.
Project Cost and Financing
8.      The project is estimated to cost about US$567 million.    The cost include
land acquisition and contingencies. The Bank loan of about US$200 million
will be on-lent to the government of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region. The
central government, through MOC, will provide the equivalent of US$107
million, while Guangxi government itself will cover the remaining sum of
US$260 million equivalent.
Implementation
9.      The proposed project would be implemented by the Project Management
Office (PMO) set up under the Guangxi Communication Department (GCD). The
implementation period would be about 6 years from March 2000 to December
2005. Overall direction of the project at the central level would rest with
the Ministry of Communications (MOC). Although this would be the first Bank-
financed highway project for the province, the province is somewhat familiar
with Bank project implementation requirement as it is currently implementing
a Bank-financed inland waterway project, though in a much smaller scale. In
the initial year of implementation MOC would assume a coordinating role and
provide technical support as and when needed.
Rational for Bank Involvement
10.     Ever since its first involvement in 1984 contribution from the Bank has
continued being regarded as a positive catalyst in the development of highway
sector in China. This is not only limited to its significant roles in direct
resources transfer , but more importantly on the continued improvement of
policy reforms and directive toward upgrading the relatively primitive road
system of the early 1980s to the today's NTHS network in less than 20 years.
The first 8 years of involvement in highway sector in China (1984-1992) the
Bank saw its role in helping China with its speedy and more basic network
expansion while, at the same time, acquiring all necessary information to
properly positioning itself to move rapidly toward a more advance planning of
NTHS development.
The following 8 years of involvement (1992-2000) the Bank saw its role in
helping China fulfilling its master plan of linking all the provinces in the
country with the modern NTHS highway system, while advancing itself into a
more challenging areas of policy reforms as shown by the People's Congress
Resolution on November 1, 1999 to implement fuel tax law.
Embarking into the 21st century, and as the country intensify its reform
policy toward a decentralization practice at local level and maintaining the
central highway agency as a policy decision body. The Bank can see its role
in helping to strengthen the capacity of local highway agencies to face up to
- 3-



the challenging task entrusted to them, while assisting central agency
thinking through many facets of policy consideration.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Sector
11.     With a good track record of 23 projects in highway sector, seven of them
completed and 16 ongoing, the Bank has accumulated substantial experience
through the preparation and implementation of these projects. Although the
overall performance of these projects is by and large satisfactory, a number
of problems have occurred. This has been taken into consideration in the
design of the proposed project. The problems include:
Compromise in construction quality for the speed of construction
Open road to traffic once civil work is completed but without the
installation of electrical and mechanical (E&M) facilities component (which
usually were delayed). This has negative impact to road safety.
Change of policy and regulatory reform takes time (could be as long as a
decade). This sometime is due to the readiness of the system development and
some time due to political readiness to accept new idea.
TA study is done with great reluctance unless it is the kind of TA that the
counterpart makes its own selection or those that don't need much input from
foreign consultant.
Environmental Aspects
12.     An environmental assessment (EA) was carried out for the Suiren-Nanning
Highway (SNH), the main highway investment under the project . During its
preparation and evaluation, Chinese national procedures as well as those
required by the Bank were followed. Documents such as the Environmental
Impact Assessment Report (EIA), Environmental Action Plan (EAP) and Executive
Summary (ES) were reviewed by the Bank and discussed with GCD during the
Preparation Mission in March 1999 and the Pre-Appraisal Mission in August
1999. SNH's final draft EA documents were submitted to the Bank in October
1999 and found satisfactory. A sectoral environmental assessment approach
was applied to the HNIMP. The Initial Environmental Evaluation (IEE) Reports
and EAPs were submitted to the Bank in October 1999 and considered
satisfactory. More detailed information on the SNH environmental assessment
as well as HNIMP components are available in the project files and released
at Bank Public Information Center (PIC) on November 5, 1999. The followings
are a summary of its impact and mitigationmeasures:
Potential impacts. These include noise and air pollution during the
construction and operation phases, water pollution during the construction
phase, and the weakening of the limestone mountains. There are no natural
habitats and environmentally protected areas along the SNH, no protected
fauna and flora, and no cultural relics (as none have been found);
Mitigation measures. The EAP specified mitigation measures, environmental
monitoring plans, institutional arrangements and the estimated cost to
implement the EAP, and training. Mitigation measures include selecting the
appropriate alignment, minimizing the cutting of limestone mountains and
restoring vegetation, watering to prevent dust during construction, and
adopting noise protection measures such as relocating villages and schools,
and constructing noise barriers.
- 4-



The engineering design and technical specifications for the SNH had
incorporate measures to protect the environment. It was ascertained that the
proposed highway would not affect ecologically sensitive areas, and that, by
implementing the EAP, the construction and operation should have no
significant adverse impacts on the environment.
Resettlement Aspects
13.     Expected resettlement aspects are the following:
The project is located in one of China's poorest areas and will complement
the local government's poverty alleviation efforts--particularly in
agricultural development and rural roads--by providing easier, more efficient
and less costly means of transport;
The HNIMP component is designed to be a poverty target intervention and
selection criteria were used to choose the specific areas. A survey of its
social impact was included as part of the component preparation and its
report. A Poverty Impact and Social Assessment Report was included in the
project files;
The road sections pre-identified under the HNIMP component does not involve
any land acquisition and resettlement;
Land will need to be acquired and homes demolished, which will affect 29,302
residents--27,213 specifically by land acquisition. Planning for
resettlement began in 1996, which included a detailed census and inventory of
affected people, a sample socio-economic survey in the affected areas and a
review of project impacts on poverty alleviation. Based on these reviews, a
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was prepared according to local laws and the
World Bank's OD 4.30. The resettlement and rehabilitation strategy follows
the traditional Chinese approach, which is based on land and agriculture, and
plans village collectives as the basic unit to restore livelihoods. The RAP
incorporates the census findings, inventory and analysis of impacts, along
with the legal framework and resettlement principles, entitlements,
institutional arrangements, grievance mechanisms, implementation arrangements
and schedules, a budget and monitoring arrangements;
Over 80% of the population in the project area belong to different ethnic
minority groups. Over 95% of those affected are Zhuang and Yao, with Zhuang
accounting for over 85%. Thus, the RAP is targeting the ethnic groups, and
ethnicity issues were particularly considered during preparation. The social
assessment identified all the ethnic minority groups, villages and households
and produced economic and cultural information, including history, current
legal provisions on ethnic minority groups, land tenure, social organization,
livelihood patterns, etc. Project information was provided to the groups
affected and the RAP incorporated their needs and concerns. These aspects
were summarized in a separate document, "Ethnic Minority People's Development
Plan (EMDP)," attached to the RAP and available in the project files. A
summary of the RAP and the EMDP is in Annex 11. The RAP and EMDP has been
made available locally and released at the Bank's Public Information Center
(PIC) on November 5, 1999.
Contact Points:
-5-



The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Supee Teravaninthorn
WB Country Office
Beijing, China
Note: This is information on an envolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 14, 2000.
The actual investment for highway sub-sector in 1997 totaled RMB110 billion
(US$13.25 billion), of which US$700 million (or 5.3%) were loan from the Work bank.      In
1998, amid the Asia Crisis, the government implemented an economic stimulus program
focussing on using investment in transport sector as fiscal spending instrument to
stimulate spending in other sectors. Through this program investment in transport sector
almost doubled to a totaled of RMB 210 billion (US$25.6 billion) in 1998, of which 55%
were for NTHS construction, 30% were for provincial trunk road and 15% for low volume
road. The portion of Bank's investment was quite stable at US$680 million in 1998.
Although this amount can not be considered high in the context of a sudden and unusual
increased in demand for such investment in China, it is not insignificant in terms of its
5% contribution to the investment needed for NTHS.     If investment from ADB and OECF are
included, the past few years investment from the three agencies totaled about US$1.2 - 1.5
billion per year, of which about 459 were contribution from the Bank, 30% from ADB and the
remaining 25% from OECF.   It is estimated that an approximately equivalent amount of
investment in 1998 will be needed for highway sector in the next 3-5 years. The country
can hardly come up with that kind of investment resources without external assistance.
TA and policy reform, though doesn't represent a huge contribution in monetary
term, the Bank has continued to play an active role in the sector policy discussion with
China ever since its first involvement in 1984. Take for example the current
consideration of fuel tax. The Bank has been advising the government, through continued
dialogue with MOC since 1987/88 to make an appropriate switch from road maintenance fee
charged at local level to a general taxation levy through fuel tax.
- 6 -



