Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4541 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Guangxi Highway Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 10, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4541 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 10, 2000, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous 
Region (Guangxi) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for 
in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to Guangxi, as set 
forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
Page  2
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the agreement of even date 
herewith between the Bank and Guangxi (the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through December 2, 1997) with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
“’Euro’, ‘€’ and ‘EUR’ each means the lawful currency of the 
member states of the 
European Union that adopt the single 
currency in accordance with the Treaty establishing the 
European 
Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union.”
(b)
A new paragraph (d) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
“If the Bank shall at any time receive less than the full 
amount then due and payable 
to it under the Loan Agreement, the Bank 
shall have the right to allocate and apply the 
amount so 
received in any manner and for such purposes under the Loan Agreement as 
the Bank 
shall in its sole discretion determine.”
(c)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second 
sentence, the word “radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new 
sentence at the end of the said Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be 
confirmed by mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Affected Persons” means persons who, on account of any 
change in land or water use due to works carried out or to be carried out 
under the Project, would incur the involuntary loss, temporarily or 
permanently, of shelter, productive assets or access to productive 
assets, or of income or means of livelihood and, as a consequence, have 
their living standards or production levels adversely affected; and 
“Affected Person” means any of the Affected Persons. 
(b)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)
“EAPs” means, collectively, (i) the environmental action 
plan, dated October 1999 in respect of Part A.1 of the Project, and (ii) 
the environmental action plan, dated October 1999 in respect of Part B of 
the Project, referred to in paragraph (A)(1) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, which together set out the environmental protection measures 
in respect of said Parts of the Project, as well as administrative and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plans, as 
Page  3
the same may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
and “EAP” means either of the EAPs.
(d)
“Guangxi” means the Borrower’s Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous 
Region, and any successor thereto.
(e)
“GCD” means Guangxi Communications Department, an agency of 
Guangxi, and any successor thereto.
(f)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
Guangxi of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to 
the Project Agreement.
(g)
“RAP” means the resettlement action plan dated November 1999 
in respect of Part A of the Project, and referred to in paragraph (A)(1) 
of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, which sets out the principles and 
procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as 
well as reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with 
said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all attachments and annexes 
supplemental to said plan.
(h)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the 
Project implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to Guangxi 
and GCD.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount 
equal to two hundred million Dollars (US$ 200,000,000).
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in 
respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b)
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special 
deposit account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an 
amount equal to two million Dollars (US$ 2,000,000). The Borrower agrees 
that on or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the 
Page  4
amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this 
Agreement to, but 
excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)  “LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, 
the London interbank 
offered rate for six-month 
deposits in dollars for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus 
(or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, 
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a 
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new 
basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Page  5
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or 
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause Guangxi to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of Guangxi therein set forth, shall 
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable Guangxi to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower 
shall make available to Guangxi the proceeds of the Loan on the following 
principal terms:
(i)
the principal amount so made available to Guangxi 
shall be the equivalent in 
terms of Dollars 
(determined as of the date, or respective dates of withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account, 
as the case may 
be) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn or paid out on 
account of 
the cost of items required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, and shall be recovered by the 
Borrower in Dollars 
(the Loan Amount);
(ii)
the Borrower shall recover the Loan Amount from 
Guangxi in semi-annual 
installments over a period 
of 20 years, inclusive of a grace period of 5 
years;
(iii)  the Borrower shall charge Guangxi interest on the 
Loan Amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at 
a rate equal to the rate payable by the 
Borrower from time to time pursuant to Section 2.06 of this Agreement; 
(iv) 
the Borrower shall charge Guangxi:  (A) a commitment 
fee on the principal 
amount of the Loan so made 
available and not withdrawn from time to time at a 
rate 
which shall not exceed three-fourths of one percent (0.75%) per annum; 
and (B) an additional fee in an amount equal to 1% of 
the Loan Amount.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Guangxi pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Page  6
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with 
sound accounting 
practices, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures are retained until at least one 
year 
after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; 
and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such 
records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section 
and those for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each 
such year the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors as 
to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as 
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
Guangxi shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that Guangxi will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General 
Page  7
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that the 
event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
Guangxi, and is legally binding upon Guangxi in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address:
Facsimile:
FINANMIN
6855-1119
MFPRC CN
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248412 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
Page  8
their respective names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the 
day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
  Amount of the Loan
    % 
of 
     Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Works:
(a) under Part A.1 (a)
   142,300,000
45%
and (b) of the Project
(b) under Part A.1 (c)
     2,300,000
30%
of the Project
(c) under Part A.1 (d)
     8,500,000
80%
of the Project
(d) under Parts B and C
    17,800,000
30%
of the Project
(2)
Goods
    10,900,000
100% of 
foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-
factory cost) 
and
75% of local
expenditures 
for other
items 
procured locally
Page  9
(3)
Consultants' services
     5,900,000
100%
and training
(4)
Fee
     2,000,000
Amount due 
under Section
2.04 of this 
Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
    10,300,000
TOTAL
   200,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; provided, however, that expenditures in the currency of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region and expenditures in the currency of 
the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be “foreign 
expenditures”; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding $1,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2) and 
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 1, 1999. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods 
under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent each; (b) works 
under contracts costing less than $2,000,000 equivalent each; (c) 
consultants’ services under contracts awarded to (i) consulting firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, and (ii) individuals costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (d) training; all under such terms 
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to (i) provide an effective 
transport link between the Borrower’s land-locked  provinces of Guizhou, 
Yunnan and Sichuan and its southern coastal areas, through Guangxi Zhuang 
Autonomous Region; and (ii) strengthen the institutional capacity of the 
highway sector agencies of Guangxi to enable them to administer, 
regulate, manage and operate the sector with greater effectiveness and 
efficiency.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  10
PART A:
Highway Capacity Expansion
1.
Construction of the Hechi (Shuiren)-Nanning Highway in Guangxi, 
consisting of: (a) construction of about 97 kilometers (km) of Class 2 
highway between Shuiren and Duan and related interchanges; (b) 
construction of about 141 km of expressway between Duan and Nanning and 
related interchanges; (c) construction of toll stations, service and 
parking areas, and administration and maintenance facilities for said 
Highway; and (d) supply and installation of electrical, electronic and 
mechanical equipment for toll collection, traffic monitoring, lighting 
and telecommunications on said Highway.
2.
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in connection 
with the carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project.
PART B:
Highway Network Maintenance and Improvement Program
Carrying out of a program of rehabilitation and maintenance of 
about ten selected sections of provincial roads totaling about 236 km.
PART C:
Highway Safety Program
Carrying out of a black spot improvement program in selected 
locations on the provincial highway network in Guangxi.
PART D:
Institutional Development
1.
Carrying out of a program to build up the capacity of highway 
sector agencies and institutions in Guangxi in the areas of planning, 
design, construction supervision, operation and maintenance, project 
management, and environmental and resettlement monitoring, through the 
provision of training and equipment. 
2.
Carrying out of studies on: (a) the design of slopes on road 
embankments and environmental protection; and (b) highway construction 
and economic development in poor areas; 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in
Date Payment Due
Dollars)** 
December 15, 2005
4,090,000
June 15, 2006
4,220,000
December 15, 2006
4,355,000
June 15, 2007
4,490,000
December 15, 2007
4,635,000
June 15, 2008
4,780,000
December 15, 2008
4,930,000
June 15, 2009
5,090,000
December 15, 2009
5,250,000
June 15, 2010
5,415,000
December 15, 2010
5,585,000
June 15, 2011
5,765,000
December 15, 2011
5,945,000
June 15, 2012
6,135,000
December 15, 2012
6,330,000
Page  11
June 15, 2013
6,530,000
December 15, 2013
6,740,000
June 15, 2014
6,950,000
December 15, 2014
7,170,000
June 15, 2015
7,400,000
December 15, 2015
7,635,000
June 15, 2016
7,875,000
December 15, 2016
8,125,000
June 15, 2017
8,385,000
December 15, 2017
8,650,000
June 15, 2018
8,925,000
December 15, 2018
9,205,000
June 15, 2019
9,495,000
December 15, 2019
9,800,000
June 15, 2020
      10,100,000
______________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be 
repaid, except as provided 
in Section 4.04(d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and 
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$6,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $50,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
Page  12
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits 
into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to para-graph 4 of 
this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount 
as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out 
of the Special 
Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said 
documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
Page  13
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in theSpecial Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
