Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4541 CHA
Project Agreement
(Guangxi Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
GUANGXI ZHUANG AUTONOMOUS REGION
Dated October 10, 2000 
LOAN NUMBER 4541 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 10, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and GUANGXI ZHUANG AUTONOMOUS 
REGION (Guangxi).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between 
People’s Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to two hundred 
million Dollars ($200,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that  Guangxi agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS Guangxi, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and 
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings 
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Guangxi declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering 
and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Bank and Guangxi shall otherwise agree, 
Guangxi shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Guangxi shall carry out the obligations set forth 
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, Guangxi shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) 
months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and Guangxi, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project;  and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with Guangxi on 
said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Guangxi shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, 
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Guangxi shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance 
by Guangxi of its obligations under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Guangxi shall maintain, or cause to be 
Page  3
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of Guangxi 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Guangxi shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to paragraph 
(a) of this Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records, accounts 
as well as the audit thereof, as 
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of 
Guangxi thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank 
shall promptly notify Guangxi thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue 
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension 
under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be 
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the party to which it 
is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be 
confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Page  4
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C
 64145 (MCI)
For Guangxi:
c/o Guangxi Communications Department
67 Xinmin Road
Nanning
Guangxi
People’s Republic of China 530012
Facsimile:
(0771) 
280-5550
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on 
behalf of Guangxi may be taken or executed by the Governor or any Vice 
Governor of Guangxi or such other person or persons as such Governor or 
Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and Guangxi shall furnish to 
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively 
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China as of the 
day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
GUANGXI ZHUANG AUTONOMOUS REGION
By /s/ Huang Huaiwen
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Page  5
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic 
contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or 
more shall include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in 
the standard bidding documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of 
the Guidelines.
(d)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to 
cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance 
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of 
the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $76,200,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Limited International Bidding
Specific testing equipment for quality control and surveying 
instruments estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
Page  6
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
3.
International Shopping
Office equipment, road maintenance equipment, laboratory equipment 
and equipment for environmental research and protection purposes 
estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify or 
invitations to bid, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall 
be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for (a) works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, and (b) goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
Page  7
1.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.
Environment.  Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Page  8
1.
Guangxi shall:
(a)
carry out the EAPs and RAP in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank; 
(b)
furnish any proposed revision of the plans referred to in 
sub-paragraph (a) above to the Bank for its prior approval;
(c)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the EAPs and RAP; and
(d)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank: (i) by March 31 of each year, starting in 2001 
through 2006, an annual environmental monitoring report; (ii) by March 31 
and September 30 of each year, starting March 31, 2001 until two years 
after completion of the Project, an internal resettlement report prepared 
by agencies of Guangxi responsible for resettlement activities on the 
implementation and results of such activities during the preceding 
six-month period; and (iii) by June 30 and December 31 of each year, 
starting June 30, 2001 until two years after completion of the Project, 
an external resettlement report prepared by an independent entity 
acceptable to the Bank, on the implementation and results of the 
resettlement activities during the same six-month period referred to in 
clause (ii) of this sub-paragraph (d).
B.
Implementation of the Project 
1.
During the implementation of Part A of the Project, Guangxi shall 
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and provide to 
the Bank a monthly progress report on the civil works for the Hechi 
(Shuiren)-Nanning Highway.
2.
Guangxi shall, by June 30, 2004,  complete under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank and furnish to the Bank for its review and 
comments, an analysis of and recommendations on the structure of 
toll-rates on the Hechi (Shuiren)-Nanning Highway, taking into 
consideration the results of studies on toll-rate structures under other 
Bank-financed highway projects in China, experience with toll rates on 
major roads in China, and the results of a survey of user responses to 
tolls to be conducted by Guangxi. 
3.
By December 31, 2005, Guangxi shall complete the black spot 
improvement program under Part C of the Project, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank.
4.
Guangxi shall: (a) carry out the training under Part D.1 of the 
Project in accordance with a training program acceptable to the Bank; and 
to that end (b) by November 30 of each year, commencing in 2000, prepare 
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and furnish to the Bank 
for its prior approval an annual training program.
C.
Monitoring and Reporting
1.
Guangxi shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable 
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
indicators satisfactory to the Bank the carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
Guangxi shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Page  9
Bank, and furnish to the Bank, the following reports:
(a)
quarterly reports by  February 15, May 15, August 15, and 
November 15 of each calendar year starting May 15, 2001, said reports to 
set out physical and financial progress in the implementation of the 
Project, both cumulatively, and in respect of said preceding calendar 
quarter; and
(b)
an annual report by March 31 of each year, commencing in 
2001 through 2006, which: (i) integrates the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1. of this 
Section C, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the preceding year; and (ii) sets out any measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the immediately succeeding year.
3.
After furnishing to the Bank each report referred to in paragraph 
2. above, Guangxi shall take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Bank’s views on the matter.
