Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 11731
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH & EXTENSION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1557-YDR)
MARCH 22, 1993
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
1984        US$1.00           =     Yen-ni Dinars (YD) 0.321
YD 1.00           -     US$ 3.1
1991        US$1.00           =     Yemeni Dinars (YD) 0.417
YD 1.00                 US$ 2.4
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 seter (a)             =     3.281 feet
1 square meter (a2)     -     10.765 square feet
1 kilometer (ki)        =     0.621 miles
1 hectare (ha)          =     2.47 acres
1 metric ton (ton)            2,205 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ACSAD   = Arab Center for Studies of the Arid Zones and Dry Lands
ACU     = Agricultural Communications Unit
ARA     - Agricultural Research Authority
AREA    = Agricultural Research and Extension Authority
AREP    = Agricultural Research and Extension Project
ASMSP   = Agriculture Sector Management Support Project
DRE     = Department of Research and Extension
FAO     = Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
ICARDA  - International Center for Agricultural Research in Dry Areas
ICRISAT = International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics
IDA     = International Development Association
IFAD    = International Fund for Agricultural Development
IITA    = International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
MAAR    = Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
KAWR    - Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
MDRT    = Multi-Disciplinary Research Team
NARC    = National Agricultural Research Council
PDRY    - People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
RETC    = Research and Extension Technical Coumittee
RCC     = Research Coordination Comittee
RDA     = Rural Development Agency
ROY     = Republic of Yemen
UNDP    = United Nations Development Programme
YAR     = Yesen Arab Republic
GOVERNMENT OF REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluadon
March 22, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Republic of Yemen
Aaricultural Research and Extension Proiect (Credit 1 557-YDR)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on
Republic of Yemen - Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Credit 1 557-YDR)"
prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. Part II of the report was
prepared by the Borrower.
The production impact due to the reorganized agricultural research and
extension activities has not been quantified. However, the scale, organization and
direction of research have been rationalized and made more relevant to farmer needs. The
extension organization (using an adapted Training and Visit methodology) was revamped.
However, changed institutional arrangements towards the end of the project (following
unification of the two Yemen republics) created funding difficulties which must be resolved
to ensure sustainability of the improved service. Overall, the project is rated as
satisfactory.
The Project Completion Report provides a reasonable account of project
implementation and highlights institutional constraints as well as procurement difficulties
but it suffers from lack of data relevant to impact analysis.
A joint audit of this project and the parallel project (Credit 1 259-YAR) in the
erstwhile Yemen Arab Republic is planned. However, it may await completion of the
follow-on project in the unified Republic of Yemen (Credit 2299-YEM) to allow an up to
date analysis of agricultural support services.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution end may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwlse be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPU8LIC OF YFMZN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH & EXTENSION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1557-YDR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paao No.
Preface                ............................
Evaluation Summary              .......................                    iii
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S P RSPECTIV .......................              1
Background . ...............................  .     .......... . ....        1
Agricultural Research ..........................................             2
Agricultural Extension .. .......................................            2
Recent Constitutional Developments ............................              3
Project Objectives                       .....                               4
Project Description...........                             .......... .      4
Project Implementation ........                 ........... .                4
Technical Assistance   ......................................5 
Project Results ............................................... .            6
Project Impact ........................ .....................                7
IDA Performance              ........................                        a
Borrower Performance               . .................                       a
Project Relationship .................................... .. .  .... .       8
Consulting Services ..........................                               a
Project Documentation and Data .................................             9
Project Sustainability                     .......    9
Lessons Learned ................................................            10
II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ................            11
Introduction ...................................................        .  .......... 11
Background .....................................................            11
Agricultural Research                       . . .                           11
Agricultural Extension Prior to the Project ...................             12
Project Implementation .        .............                               12
Project Impact .................................................            13
Project Relationship ............................. .                        13
Project Sustainability                   .      .      .       .......   14
Lessons Learned     ....... .. .. .....................................     14
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



III.          SUHMARY STATISTICAL DATA
Tablep
1. Related Bank Loans and/or IDA Credit .......................                 16
2. Project Timetable ...........................................                17
3. Cumulative Disbursements ................................... .               18
4. Project Costs and Financing: A. Project Costs               .      .          19
B. Project Financing   . .                 19
5. Use of Bank Resources: A. Staff Input                   .        .           20
B. Mission Data . . ....................          20
6. Project Results/Implementation                    ...             .          21
7. Status of Covenants                         ....    22
NPs IBRD 18277



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
tEPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RtSEARCH & EXTENSION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1557-YDR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural
Research and Extension Project in the former People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen (PDRY), for which Credit 1557-YDR in the amount of SDR 5.1 million was
approved on March 14, 1985. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1991, one
year behind schedule. A total of SDR 5.065 was disbursed and the unutilized
balance of SDR 0.035 was cancelled, with the final disbursement beLng made on
March 27, 1992. The actual total cost of the project amounted to US$8.130
million, for which the Government provided an equivalent of US$1.628 million.
The PCR war jointly prepared by the Agricultural Operation. Division
of the Country Department II, Middle East and North Africa Region (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, & Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started late January, 1992, and in based,
inter  "ia,  on the findings of a PCR mission and on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Development Credit Agreement, Supervision Reports, related FAO
reports, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, and internal IDA
memoranda.



I



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC Or YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1557-YDR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.      The Agricultural Research and Extension Project (AREP) was designed
to develop research operations throughout the Peoples' Democratic Republic of
Yemen (PDRY). A similar project (Agricultural Research and Development
Project - Cr. 1259-YAR) was implemented simultaneously in the Yemen Arab
Republic (YAR). In 1990, towards the end of project implementation, the two
countries unified to form the Republic of Yemen (ROY - Yemen). At this time,
all agricultural research operations were unified within an Agricultural
Research and Extension Authority (AREA). Although the geographic area of ROY
is almost equally divided between the Southern (ex PDRY) and the Northern (ex
YAR) governorates, only about 9 percent of farmland and 17 percent of the
population are in the South.
2.      Agriculture is an important sector in the economy of Yemen; however,
low and erratic precipitation restricts the cultivable area in the South (ex
PDRY) to 120,000 ha. As rainfall averages only 200 mm per annum agriculture
is almost entirely dependent on irrigation. Currently about 25,000 ha are
cultivated under well irrigation and approximately 50,000 ha under spate
irrigation. Some 40 percent of the labor force in the South is engaged in
agriculture. Following the Marxist revolution in 1963, farmland was mostly
nationalized while farming was organized on a cooperative basis with central
planning but predominantly individual farm units. Cooperatives were
responsible for supplying inputs, farm mechanization and marketing services
and for organizing the purchase and marketing of produce. In addition, 35
state farms operated autonomously on some 10,000 ha. The remaining farmland
(5 percent of total and mostly isolated) remained in the hands of private
operators. In general, the record of centralized farming in PDRY experienced
similar cumbersome operations, high costs and low productivity as eastern
Europe. At unification, therefore, Yemen adopted more market oriented
policies, farmland is now being returned to the original owners, and
cooperatives and state monopolies now have to compete with private sector
operators.
obi ective-
3.      The project aimed at strengthening the agricultural research and
extension activities in PDRY, through reorganization of the research and
extension operations in the main agro-ecological regions: Lahej and Abyan
Governorates in the west and Hadramawt in the east. To complement these
actions, the project aimed at: (i) streamlining "outreach" through developing



- IV -
of research/extension coordinators and involving field extension agents (PEAs)
in the implementation of field trial. and demonstration plots; and
(ii) strengthening the Agricultural Communications Unit (ACU).
ImDlementation
4.      The Department of Research and Extension (DRE) executed the project
in accordance with the general guidelines recommended in the Staff Appraisal
Report. The number of research Sections was reduced at the El Kod and Seiyun
Research Stations, multi-disciplinary research teams (MDRTs) were formed, and
research/extension coordinators were assigned to the DRE offices in Lahej,
Abyan and Hadramawt Governorates to establish better links of extension with
research (in 1989, these activities were also partially extended to a fourth
Governorate: Shabwa). Vehicles, motorcycles, laboratory equipment and
supplies were procured, and extension staff housing and hostels for research
staff were constructed and research facilities were modernized as planned.
5.      The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), under the terms of a
Trust Fund Agreement (financed from the Credit), recruited technical
assistance personnel (TA) under the project, as well as organizing 300 man-
months of external training and 72 man-months of short and medium courses for
the benefit of the research and extension staff.
Results
6.      The project was successful due largely to its design which
coordinated research and extension operations. Particular impact included the
reorganization of the research effort to develop more focused research
programs, through the MDRTs, the research/extension coordination units, and
outreach. Through research experimentation, the project developed approaches
for formulating technological packages. The resulting packages involved
recommendations on the use of better technological practices in soil and water
management and pest control. Improved crop and vegetable cultivars were
Introduced in the different agro-ecological areas of the country, leading to
yield increases ranging from 20-50 percent.
7.      The appointment of research/extension coordinators strengthened the
links between research and extension and provided for better transfer of new
technology to the farmers. Additionally, feed-back was aided by checks on the
adoption rate of technical packages. The transport facilitiec helped FEAs to
extend the coverage and frequency of visits to farmers and enabled them to
participate in the training programs offered at the Directorate of Agriculture
facilities in the governorates. Aside from direct R & E activities, the DRE
made an innovative trial with the introduction of charges for services (e.g.,
soil analyses). In 1986, project implementation was interrupted for six
months by civil disturbances. Weaknesses in project performance included
limitations on farmer impact due to the inherent disincentives of the
centralized government, cumbersome administrative procedures, and restrictions
on long-term training for researchers and extensionists.



v 
Sustainabilitv
7.      Facilities and resources provided through the project are being
increasingly utilized as research scientists expand their skills. More
significantly, the fundamental concepts established under this project have
been adopted as policies for Yemen's research, outreach and extension
operations under AREA. In addition, the activities of the ACU have been
transferred to AREA headquarters at Dhamar to provide the hub for a
professional, national service for all regional agencies. Furthermore, the
project's achievements are being consolidated under the IDA supported
Agriculture Sector Management Support Project (ASMSP), which will particularly
support the development of facilities in decentralized, regional stations, the
creation of an outreach network, and the expansion of training opportunities
with the development of an in-service training center. Sustainability of
project actions is, therefore, likely to be particularly favorable. These
activities continue to receive high Government support. However, it is
important that early decision be made on the organization of extension
services in the south. At the same time, it is important to have a clear
picture of likely long-term financing for research operations, so as to set
priority programs and to decide precise strategies. This would be enhanced by
further investigating opportunities for charging farmers and communities for
services.
Lessons Learned
8.      The linkage between research and extension was central to the
project's success. The formation of MDRTs, the establishment of research and
extension coordinators and the focus on field trials, proved to be valuable
tools in consolidating research programs, in more effective transfer of
technology, and in ensuring feed back of technical information from the field
to researchers. The field trials exposed the researchers to actual farming
conditions which helped them in better designing trials. Overall, the
research developments were a significant achievement for the first tranche of
a development program; but it is critical to ensure that the momentum of
development is maintained. This will be assured under the ASMSP. Field
extension operations benefitted from being staffed with agricultural graduates
and their effectiveness improved due to the T & V approaches developed through
the project. Also, the ACU developed into an effective tool of technology
transfer, including the evolution of popular, weekly television program
providing topical information for farmers. On the other hand, government
administration and procurement procedures were cumbersome; extension efforts
were affected by shortages of inputs (especially fertilizers); and the
expansion of project operations to a fourth governorate without added
resources tended to detract from project impact in the primary project areas.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RCPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT
ICREDIT 15S7-YDR)
PART It  PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA's PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity:
Project Namet Agricultural Research & Extension
Credit No.  : 1557-YDR
RVP Unit    : MNA
Country     : Republic of Yemen
Sector      : Agriculture
Subsector   : Agricultural Research
BacIkround
1.      Agriculture is the single most important sector in the Republic of
Yemen (ROY/Yemen - para. 8). The total cultivated area is estimated at 1.4
million ha of which about 0.3 million is irrigated, either under spate or tube
irrigation, while the remainder is rainfed. The project was situated in the
southern part of Yemen (formally PDRY), where the cultivable area is about
120,000 ha (less than 1 percent of the total geographic area) out of which
about 60,000 ha are cropped annually (80 percent field crops, 12 percent
permanent crops, and 8 percent for vegetable production). Rainfall is erratic
and is generally less than 200 mm per annum, therefore, cropping depends
mostly on irrigation (95 percent), with 40,000 to 70,000 ha annually being
served by irregular spate flows and a further 25,000 ha being by controlled
irrigation from boreholes. Agriculture contributes some 20 percent to GDP in
the South, made up of 65 percent crops and 35 percent livestock. Livestock
are important because of rangolands, which cover much of the South,
traditionally provided livelihood for nomadic herdemen and the source of stock
for settled farming communities. Livestock numbers are estimated at about 3
millon head of which 2.1 million are sheep and goats.
2.      About 200,000 people, 41 percent of the labor force in the South,
work in agriculture. However due to substantial migration to Saudi Arabia and
the Gulf States in the 1970s/80s (until the Gulf Crisis), the agricultural
population is aging and is predominantly women. The type of agriculture,
particularly in the spate irrigated area, is highly seasonal. An a result,
there are labor shortages and high wage rates at critical times.
3.      Following the creation of PDRY in 1967, the agricultural policy in
the South (and throughout most of the project period) was based on centralized
planning controlled by the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR)
through state-owned, individually operated farm. Crop production was
coordinated through (MAAR) cooperatives. Privately owned farms operated in



the more remote areas and there were 35 independent state farms covering some
10,000 ha of good land served by tubewell irrigation. The cooperatives in
each governorate were responsible for distributing inputs and for coordinating
mechanization and produce marketing services. Under guidance of the district
agricultural offices (DAO) in each governorate, cooperatives also played a key
role in implementing agricultural policies, including the coordination of crop
acreage and production targets, the collection of agricultural production
taxes and marketing of the agricultural products. Basic services were
provided by monopolistic, public corporations, like the Public Corporation for
Agricultural Services (PCAS) which procured and distributed inputs.
4.      In common with centralized farming systems in other parts of the
world, production costs were high and yields were generally mediocre. Output
was unable to meet the demand of the growing population and increasing
standard of living. This resulted in increased imports of food and live
animals, particularly wheat, flour, rice and meat.
Aaricultural Research
5.      Agricultural research in the South operates from the two stations,
El Kod, situated in the coastal plains of Abyan (west), and Seiyun, situated
in the mid altitude region of Hadramawt (east). Research activities
originated in the late 40's when the British colonial Government introduced
agricultural research for the development of long staple cotton. In 1951,
El Kod Research Station was established in the coastal plains of Abyan, with
emphasis on cotton breeding, entomology, and soils. This led eventually to
the production of long staple cotton varieties suitable for export. Following
independence in 1967, agricultural research in PDRY was focused on increased
self-reliance in the production of food and fodder crops, more efficient use
of natural resources, and the production of raw material for agro-industries.
The Seiyun Research Station was set up in 1972, with emphasie on field crops
(especially wheat), vegetables and forages. Organizationally, the Research
and Extension Department (DRE) was established to coordinate R & E activities,
respectively through the research stations and DAOe. The Government sought
assistance from the international organizations, FAO and UNDP, and through
bilateral agreements, to assist in attaining its research goals. Building on
this foundation, IDA responded to the Government's request, in 1984, by
supporting the Agricultural Research and Extension Project (AREP).
Agricultural Extension
6.      Under the DRE umbrella, agricultural extension activities were
directly linked with agricultural research. The Giaar Training Center (OTC)
originally came directly under the technical supervision of the El Kod station
and was set up primarily to train agricultural extension staff. GTC is now
administered by the Ministry of Educationj however, researchers from both El
Rod and Seiyun participated in the training program.
7.    Extension operations focused on farmers covered by the cooperativesi
state farms being excluded because, theoretically, they operated under
commercial management. The limited number of private farmers received no



direct support. The Agricultural Communications Unit (ACU) worked in
conjunction with the Documentation Center to produce training materials for
agricultural farmers. Most FEAs were highly qualified, as they were graduates
from the University of Aden; however, before the project started, they were
constrained by lack of facilities, equipment and materials.
Recent Constitutional Developments
8.      The Republic of Yemen (ROY) was created in 1990 by unification of
PDRY with Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) to the North. The philosophy of the new
Republic is centered on a market economy, which has required significant
adjustment in organizations in the South. In particular, central planning
was dropped, land is being returned to the original owners and private traders
are operating freely. Government services of the North and the South were
combined and cooperatives and public corporations are required to operate as
private sector businesses. Farmers now freely select the mixture of crop.
which they grow and, similarly, they can opt to market their produce through
traders or cooperatives.
9.      These fundamental changes, occurring towards the end of the project,
tended to disrupt the administration, but provided enhanced opportunities for
the long-term expansion of the project objectives. Agricultural research
activities in the South are now part of the Agricultural Research and
Extension Authority (AREA), administered under the MAWR located in Sana'a.
Government is now considering the creation of regional development agencies
(RDAs) in the south and it is likely that extension operations will be
enhanced by the creation of these agencies covering the main project areas.
Proiect Obiectives
10.     The project aimed at strengthening the agricultural research and
extension operations in the main agro-ecological regions of PDRY, namely the
coastal low lands (Lahej and Abyan), the mid-altitude areas of Hadramaut
(Seiyun) and the highland represented by the Lodar and Mukairas nub-stations.
The project further attempted, through improved management and reorganization
and enhanced staff motivation, to better coordinate and closely supervise the
agricultural research programs and to develop linkages with field extension
operations. The research programs would be crop or commodity specific rather
than technical discipline-oriented and would be carried out by multi-
disciplinary teams of research scientists.
Proiect Description
11.     The project comprised the following activities:
(i)   strengthening and improving the DRE through internal
reorganization and provision of technical assistancej
(ii) strengthening and improving the research activities throughs
internal reorganization, reformulation of research programs
through technical assistance, training, provision of research



-4-
facilities to properly equip the stations, and supplies of
research materials;
(iii) developing the limited extension services in three of the most
important governorates for agriculture (Lahej, Abyan and
Hadramawt) through provision of extension house., offices, and
equipment and materials, technical assistance and training; and
(iv) expanding the ACU through provision of both technical
assistance and funds for equipment.
Proiect Implementation
12.     The project was executed by the DRE, under the overall supervision of
MAAR headquarters in Aden. The research component was implemented by the two
main research stations. The ACU was attached to the DRE at MAAR headquarters,
while the extension component was supervised from the DAOs in Lahej, Abyan,
and Hadramaut. Civil disturbances in 1986 caused repatriation of TA personnel
and disrupted project operations for some six months.
13.     Some structural changes took place within DRE, as part of internal
organization of the MAAR, associated with the project. These included:
(a) transferring out the Giaar Training Center from MAAR to the Ministry of
Education; and (b) developing: (i) research and extension programs, which were
previously divided between the Crop Production and Animal Husbandry
Departments; and (ii) the ACU and the Documentation Center, and transferring
these services under the DRE. Additionally, the administration of the DRE
was reorganized into five sections, covering: Research, Extension,
Agricultural Documentation, Communication, and Finance and Accounts. Key
developments under the project included: (i) the establishment of a
multidisciplinary Research and Extension Technical Committee (RETC) under the
chairmanship of the DRE Director; this effectively supervised the overall
planning and impact of the research and extension program; and (ii) the
appointment of research/extension coordinators in addition to supervisors to
monitor extension activities in the field.
14.     Extension operations focused on farmers covered by the cooperatives
and the extension methodology (as set out at appraisal) followed a modified
T & V system whereby programmed visits were carried out from DAOc and from the
houses of the Field Extension Agents (FEAs). The high level of training of
FEAs had significant beneficial effect on the impact of the extension
component -- both for men and women farmers. Insofar as cooperative managers
had no direct intervention with farming operations, extension support was
based on individual farmer-members of the cooperative often associated in
informal village groups. Field demonstration plots were set up in conjunction
with each research center and film shows, weekly radio and television programs
were organized for the benefit of the farmers at the training centers, and
field days were held at the demonstration sites set up by the researchers.
Extension support was more structured in Seiyun, where irrigation systems for
the Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1346-YDR) were
organized in 50 ha blocks lnvolving several families. The ACU was



particularly effective in preparing the material needed for extension,
including the preparation of weekly television programs to complement field
extension work.
15.     Two years into the effectiveness of the project, the Technical
Sections at both research centers were reduced in accordance with project
design, to free research scientists from the administrative chores and to
enable them to devote more time to substantial research work. As planned in
the appraisal, research work was grouped into six sections: Agronomy,
Horticulture/Food Technology, Soils/irrigation, Plant Protection, Economics
and Farming Systems Research, and Forestry. Crops were categorized into five
major commodity groups comprising fruit, vegetables, cereals, industrial
crops, and legumes and forages. For each group, a multi-disciplinary research
team (MDRT), consisting of a team leader and scientists from different
disciplines, was constituted. Subject matter specialists (SMS) from the
extension units were included in each of these teams. Assignment of national
research coordinators for the major commodities insured a coordinated research
program, non-duplication of research efforts, and better informed research
staff of the ongoing research programs. A Research /Extension Coordination
Unit was established in each center led by Yemenis with experience in both
fields.
16.     In parallel with changes in research organization, project actions
also induced reorganization of the agricultural extension system. Three
extenoion units were set up, one each at Abyan, Lahej, and Hadramaut. Later,
a fourth unit was initiated at Shabwa (in excess of the original project
objectives). Each unit was organized by the respective Governorate Department
of Agriculture and run by the relevant DAOs, who were responsible for
personnel management, budget and extension targets. Overall technical
supervision remained the responsibility of the DRE.
17.     Although there were some delays in the formation of the MDRTs and due
to inefficient procurement procedures, the project was executed in accordance
with the appraisal expectations, in terms of better focused research, greater
collaboration between researchers and extension staff, and expanded coverage
of extension and communications operations. However, the civil disturbance in
1986 disrupted project operations and delayed procurement of goods. Also,
following unification, the attentiveness in project management dropped-off
when the DG DRE was appointed as Director General of AREA.
Technical Assistance
18.     The technical assistance component was entrusted to FAO under a
special Trust Fund Agreement with the government. A Chief Technical Advisor
(CTA/research specialist) was recruited under this agreement to assist the
project in the formulation of a research program, procurement of field and
laboratory equipment, and coordination of agricultural research activities
with those of extension (50 mm). Three other expatriate specialists were
recruited to advise on the improvement of the Development Communication Unit
(18 mm); Agriculture economics, (16 mm), and agricultural extension
methodology, (36 mm). There were also 88 mm of short-term consultancies



-6-
recruited during the course of project implementation to help in various
agricultural topics and in organizing the El Xod library. Additionally, PAO
coordinated a mid-term review involving a research and an extension
specialists. Except for the agricultural economist, whose term was cut short
for unsatisfactory performance, the remaining expatriate staff carried out
their responsibilities reasonably and their performance was satisfactory.
Counterpart training by the extension and communications specialists was
effective. However, preoccupation of the CTA with project administration and
procurement reflected unfavorably on the research programs and on in-service
training. Furthermore, government's refusal to finance long-term training
with IDA funds meant that scientists/extensioniets were unable to follow M.S.
or PhD training overseas, thereby diminishing the project's training impact.
Proiect Results
19.     The project achieved its institution building objectives in
strengthening DRE through technical and phyoical improvements to the national
research and extension networks. Improvement in the technical aspects
involved reducing the number and raising the efficiency of sections, and
focusing the coordination of related topics, thereby increasing researchers'
productivity. The MDRTs were formed, each led by a national research
coordinator who implemented research programs at El Kod and Seiyun. Being an
Integral part of the MDRTs, enabled research-extension coordinators to improve
the effectiveness of transfer of newly found technologies to FEAs and fostered
feed-back of associated experience and other problems from farmers. The
technical research committees operated effectively at both El Kod and Seiyun,
with monthly liaison with extension SMSe. In addition, the Agricultural
Research Council was established and effectively provided a "watch dog" for
research programming/budgets and for scrutinizing published results and
monitoring expenditures. In 1989, the ARC was superseded by the National
Council for Sciences, which was transformed into the National council for
Research and Extension at national unification.
20.     With respect to the physical aspects of improving research and
extension works, the project provided laboratory and library structures,
together with badly needed laboratory equipment and instruments, farm research
and verification trials material needs, and general logistics of transport and
material required for staff relocation, soil and plant analytical needs, and
field experimental requirements. Additionally, and to provide for adequate
staff office and housing needs, an eighteen-bedroom dormitory at El Kod
research center, a six-bedroom hostel at Lodar substation and twenty one
housing units for field extension agents were constructed.
21.     The project was also successful in upgrading the capabilities of the
research and extension workers in specific subjects, through short courses,
overseas visits (300 man months), focused on advanced crop production
technologies, plant protection, extension methodology, library science and
computer technology. Furthermore, and in order to bring the extension workers
up-to-date in the advancement of new technology, 72 man-month of medium-term
courses were successfully organized under the project.



-7-
Proiect Ianact
22.     The project's main impact lies in improved research management
accomplished through the reorganization of the research operations to focus on
priority topics, the coordination of research scientists in MDRTs, the
development of outreach to farmers, and the streamlining of field extension
operations. The research work resulted in more thorough study of the
agricultural problems: agronomists, plant pathologist, entomologist, and soil
scientists all participated in the execution of single experiments, limiting
duplication and at the same time expanding the scope of the trials. Extension
workers were better informed of new technologies and provided with the means
for feed-back from farmers through participation of the research/extension
coordinators in MDRTs, during and after execution of the experimental works.
The team approach also ended the isolation of scientists, who become better
informed of the scope of experiments at the stations, unlike the previous
situation, where each section carried out its work separately and
independently.
23.     As a result of focused experiments on varietal trials and agronomic
practices, technological packages were formulated for the main field crops for
the main agro-ecological regions in the South, i.e., the coastal plains of
Abyan, the uplands of Lahej, and the mid altitude areas of Hadramawt.
Although monitored data is limited, it is estimated that with alternative
varieties, improved cultivation techniques, and better timing of operations,
yields increased: in cereals by some 33 percent for wheat (to 3.3 tons/ha)
and by 22 percent in sorghum and maize (to 2.6 tons/ha); for vegetable crops,
an average increase of 25 percent (focused on onions, garlic, potato and
tomato; while for the traditional forage crop, alfalfa, yields also increased
by some 25 percent (to 40 tons/ha) and Napier grass was introduced (through an
associated UNDP/UNCDF project), with fresh weight yields of 60 tons/ha. For
fruit production (banana, papaya, mango and oranges), little was achieved in
the relatively short project period, while work on industrial crops (cotton,
sesame and groundnut) was at the formative stage.
24.     The project also strengthened ties of the El Kod and Seiyun research
centers with those of the International Research Centers, particularly ICARDA,
ICRISAT, IITA, and ACSAD. These centers assisted in the provision of germ
plasm, short-term training, of the research staff at their headquartere, and
through organizing participation in regional research programs for specific
crops. Furthermore, a system for monitoring of research and extension
programs was introduced to check on the impact of the new technologies on
production, degree of adoption, and economic considerations of introducing
specific technologies. Apart from routine recording research results,
procedures for monitoring project impact were established belatedly and there
was no consistent measurement of farmers benefits. However, it is avident
that extraneous factors, especially shortages of fertilizers and other inputs,
prevented optimum project impact -- as well as acting to demoralize extension
staff and to disinterest farmers.
25.     The project created effective linkages between research and extension
through participation of the extension staff in on-farm trials, through joint



- 8 -
visits to the farmers fields, and through better coordination of
research/extension activities during the joint Research/Extension Technical
Committee meetings. Discussions in theme meetings focused on application of
newly found technologies, programs and results, in addition to occasional
problems on non-adoption of certain technologies and means to solve them. An
added linkage was through collaboration in production of audiovisual materials
for farmers. However, at unification and the reorganization of R & E
operations, there were inadequate arrangements for ensuring continuity of
extension operations at the end of the project. This has resulted in a hiatus
in services to farmers which, hopefully, should be countered by the creation
of regional development agencies for these areas; and needs to receive highest
priority.
IDA Perfor=ance
26.     IDA staff paid frequent visits to the project, assisted the project
management in the organizational matters of various aspect of research and
extension activities, helped in the recruitment of the technical assistance
staff, and with the cooperation of FAO arranged for the overseas training of
local staff. IDA's performance was, therefore, satisfactory.
Borrower Pgrformance
27.     In general, the borrower performed well:  two years into project
implementation, activities specified in the Staff Appraisal Report were
adopted: the number of research sections was reduced, technical committees for
coordinating research and extension programs were established, and the agreed
civil works and procurement of equipment and other goods were implemented. The
project management was instrumental in creating MDRTs and in establishing
better research and extension links through assignment of research/extension
coordinators. Shortfalls in borrower performance were centered on procurement
administration, where there were some delays caused mainly by lack of
qualified staff and bureaucratic procedures (in addition to the civil
disturbance of 1986) and inadequate provisions for essential inputs for
farmers -- to support the project's activities.
Proiect Relationshio
28.     The project management maintained cordial relationship with relevant
departments in the country, and with the international organizations it
contacted. It also cooperated effectively with the FAO through the TA
personnel and training provisions.
Consulting Services
29.     Under the terms of the Trust Fund Agreement for the project, FAO
provided the planned consultancies during project implementation. In fact,
the budget originally provided for TA and training was exceeded. The CTA
played a leading role in assisting the project management to establish the
MDRTs and extension coordinators, as well as contending with difficulties in
procurement and administration. Under the terms of a Trust Fund Agreement



with FAO, and through FAO's specific Country Assistance Programs, 88 man-
months of medium- and short-term consultants were recruited to advise on
various aspects of experimental technique, extension methodology,
communication and documentation development, and technical specialties, such
am laboratory analytical works, soils, irrigation, statistics, crop
physiology, computer technology, and the design of research greenhouses. The
impact of the long-term consultants was positive. However, the short-term
consultants were less effective and should have been programmed in more
detail. In general, these specialist. were not well coordinated with DRE and
frequently the specialists concerned had inadequate tlme to analyze the
problems and to develop solutions. This was compounded by a lack
in follow up on the advice and recommendations.
Proiect Documentation and Data
30.     Annual progress reports on project implementation were issued, but
the quality declined after the departure of the Technical Assistance staff.
These reports contained details of technical information on experimental
programs, and results obtained during the course of the year. Additionally,
various technical report. documenting research carried-out under the project
where issued and distributed to relevant district agricultural offices and to
the extension service. The Communication Support Unit prepared posters and
pamphlets for the benefit of farmers and the extension agents. The library
received and documented occasional periodicals received from abroad. The
Annual Audit Reports were generally submitted on time through the Government's
Central Audit Agency.
Proiect Sustainabilitv
31.     Facilities and resources provided through the project are being
increasingly utilized as research scientists expand their skills. More
significantly, the fundamental concepts established under this project have
been adopted as policies for Yemen's research, outreach and extension
operations under AREA. In addition, the activities of the ACU have been
transferred to AREA headquarters at Dhamar to provide the hub for a
professional, national service for all regional agencies. Furthermore, the
project's achievements are being consolidated under the IDA supported
Agriculture Sector Management Support Project (ASMSP), which will particularly
support the development of facilities in decentralized, regional stations, the
creation of an outreach network, and the *xpansion of training opportunities
with the development of an in-service training center. Sustainability of
project research actions is, therefore, likely to be particularly favorable.
These activities continue to receive high Government support. Nonetheless, it
is important to have a clear picture of likely long-term financing for
research operation., so as to set priority programs and to decide precise
strategies. This would be enhanced by further investigating opportunities for
charging farmers and communities for services.
32.     Sustainability of the agricultural extension system, however, is less
certain, especially in the context of recurrent funding. In the former PDRY,
DRE had budget resources for financing *xtension operations in coordination



- 10 -
with the provincial DOAs. DRE supplied the vehicles, motorcycles, and
materials, and including partial financing for fuel and inputs. Following
unification, budgetary allocations for agricultural extension programs in the
southern governorates were disrupted; providing only for staff salaries and
limited operating funds. This situation arose in part because of the lack of
specific rural development agencies (RDAs) in the South and the shortage of
allocations and inflexibility of the newly created Ministry of Agriculture and
Water Resources (MAWR) for implementing extension activities. To ensure
oustainability of the extension operations in the provinces covered by the
project, it is imperative for MAWR to ensure sufficient budgetary funds for
Implementing agricultural extension programs in the areas not covered by rural
development projects. In addition, the new budgetary procedures entailing the
control of the development budget by the Ministry of Planning and Development,
started in January 1992, holds promise for better and more timely allocation
of funds to extension activities.
Lessons Learned
33.     The paramount lesson from this project is the tremendous synergies
from linking research and extension in a single development. The approaches
for focusing and coordinating research work and for integrating linkages down
to farmer level are models for development. However, the potentials of this
system were swiftly reduced by failures in fiscal back-up, both for inputs
supplies to farmers and for operating funds. In this context, the efforts by
the DRE to introduce charges for succinct research/extension services is
commendable and should be followed-up further, both for cost savings but also
for optimizing beneficiaries appreciation. On the conceptual side, the clear
lesson is that a six year project implementation period for a research project
should only be regarded as a tranche developing a national research operation.
Therefore it is critical to specify the program concept, both to ensure
necessary consolidation subsequent to project completion and, to highlight the
need for long-term recurrent costs commitments. On the organizational side,
the lessons learned include: (i) caution over extending operations to an
additional governorate (irrespective of clear social justification) without
corresponding increases in resources, because there is a risk of endangering
the overall impact; (ii) caution over hiring short-term consultants, except
for precisely defined tasks for which adequate time can be allocated;
(iii) the importance of hiring a project administrator (possibly a local
consultant) so a to minimize the diversion of TA personnel's time away from
the specialist work for which they are hired; and (iv) the need to simplify
Government procurement procedures (or obtain special dispensation for project
activities) in order to ensure timely implementation.



- 11 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER' S PERSPECTIV
Introduction
1.      This chapter describes project activities and its impact on
agricultural development in the former PDRY, am visualized from the borrower's
perspective. Here we would like to elaborate on the Bank's Part I of the PCR,
on points which were either omitted or otherwise require clarification. We
feel that it is necessary to shed some light on the status of research
management as well as agricultural extension before the project war
implemented in order to gain a better understanding of the impact of the
project under review. Additionally, the PCR only briefly touches on the
mechanism adopted by the project management in the overall execution of the
project. The PCR presented by the Bank points to major impact of the project
on research and extension and identifies lessons learned from the
implementation of the project.
2.      It must be noted that the success of the project in many aspects was
attributable to the common understanding by the project management and the
supervision missions throughout the project implementation period.
Backaround
3.      Potential cultivable area within the borders of the  former PDRY is
about 120,000 Ha, out of which 25-30,000 ha are cultivated annually.
Livestock contributes about 34 percent of the Agricultural GDP. This sector
is not only important for settled farming systems in the South, but it li also
the main activity of the nomadic and semi-nomadic herdsmen in the country.
The number of livestock is estimated at about 3 million head of anlmals of
which 2.1 million are sheep and goats. However, the IDA project concentrated
mainly on crop production, as activities for livestock research and fodder
production were covered by a complementary forage production and sheep/goat
improvement project assisted by UNDP/FAO and UNCDF.
Agricultural Research
4.      Agricultural research achievements in the seventies led to a need to
coordinate research between Seiyun and El Kod research centers. It became
also important to coordinate and technically supervise the fragmented
extension activities which were partially managed and implemented by
development projects and agriculture departments in the major Governorates.
5.      The newly established Department of Research and Extension in 1981
lacked facilities and its qualified staff could not practice any significant
leading role in management of research and extension as part of its mandate.



- 12 -
6.      The Medium-Term Program (MTP), was mainly designed to identify ways
to solve problems within a certain period. The actual implementation of
research started from scratch. Results generated from the implementation of
the MTP, could only be compiled towards the end of the MTP, and more
specifically at the final year of the MTP, 1989. The reason for the delay in
the formulation of findings was mainly due to the fact that many researchers
dealt with the MTP in a mechanical and traditional manner. This was a result
of limited experience of local staff in conducting research, and evaluation of
findings.
Agricultural Extension Prior to the Proiect
7.      Although the methodology applied by extension units in Lahej, Abyan,
Shabwa, and Hadramaut was based principally on the training and visit system.
The linkages with research either in Seiyun or El Kod were never materialized
to develop into a substantial activity.
8.      Extension Units were organized as part of activities of the
development project area and comprised of staff recruited in many cases from
Aden. Termination of these projects in Lahej and Abyan led to transfer of
most of the extension staff outside the Governorates leaving the extension
service paralyzed. No provision was made to gradually transfer extension
activities to the departments of agriculture in those governorates.
Proiect Imolementation
9.      Parallel to the organizational changes which took place at both El
Kod and Seiyun, research priorities reflecting production problems were set up
and verified with the extension service and the farming community, in
accordance with Government strategy. A medium-Term Program (5 years) was
designed in which the major activities and projects were formulated. From the
medium-term program annual plans of work were extracted. Plans of work were
formulated in the Technical Sections, discussed by the Multi-Disciplinary
Research Teams (MDRTs), and approved by the National Research and Extension
Technical Committee (RETC).
10.     The Extension Units set up by the project consisted of qualified
extension agents (Holders of B.Sc.), and carefully selected subject matter
specialists (SMS). More attention was given to the ratio between supervision
and extension agents which resulted in a structure involving less supervision
and management staff and more extension agents.
11.     The careful approach applied in the execution of the procurement was
mainly because the management did not follow strictly the project file. It
was decided that procurement should be selective and should reflect actual
needs rather than strict application of the project file. The revision of the
actual requirements took some time but was necessary in order to avoid
duplLcation and unneceseary procurement.
12.     The delay of construction was mainly because the management of the
project became more involved in technical ismues related to the management of
research and extension, on the expense of other activities of the projects.



- 13 -
13.     The project management failed to establish a full time project
implementation unit from the start of the project which resulted in
accumulation of additional responsibilities of the Project Manager who was at
the same time the Director General of Department of Research and Extension
(DRE).
14.     Careful evaluation of the requirements in training revealed that the
priority should be given to short-term training of research and extension
staff, rather than long-term academic training as specified in the project
document.
15.     It was also observed that considerable number of technical staff were
never given opportunities to upgrade their knowledge through training abroad,
neither the policy of the Government allowed them to enroll in any higher
academic training, locally or abroad. This situation forced project
management to establish a special short-term training program for the
technical staff.
Proiect Imsact
16.     The formulation of MDRTc, which brought together different
disciplines resulted in a more understanding of agricultural problems, and
provided solid grounds for coordination of research activities which resulted
in a coordinated approach to solving such problems.
17.     The strengthening of linkages between research and extension was
materialized through the participation of SMS in the monthly workshops
organized by the research and extension coordinators. In these workshops,
production problems were discussed and training in new technologies was
organized.
18.     The system of monitoring and evaluation of research and extension was
introduced in the final stages of the project and did not became a well
established practice. Results of the preliminary findings of monitoring and
evaluation clearly demonstrated that the impact of research and extension on
production is not a function of research and extension alone but also a
function of a combination of other factors, such as provision of inputs,
pricing policies, and freedom of choice of crops to be grown by the farmers.
The findings clearly showed that to increase production, it is not enough to
have a well organized research and extension structure, but other support and
operating resources must be taken into consideration.
Proiect Relationshio
19.     The project strengthened and coordinated its activities with those of
the Faculty of Agriculture in Aden University which led to several useful
joint activities and resulted in the participation of DRE Director General in
the faculty board and the participation of research staff in lecturing courses
in the faculty, and in the editing of a scientific journal of Agriculture in
which staff from both organizations publish their research finding. These
few examples of relationships, however, did not tackle serious problems such
as involvement of the academic staff in research activities, mainly because of



- 14 -
existing several constraints, such as availability of facilities on faculty
campum, and the limited research experience of most of the agricultural
academic staff.
Proiect SustainabilitT
20.     The research and extension project did provide solid grounds for
strengthening research and extension in the former PDR Yemen. The question of
mustainability was always alarming, both in research and extension. Despite
the fact that expenditures and running coats were kept at a minimum and more
dependence was on the recurrent budgets. There was a feeling, however, that
the recurrent budget might not compensate for project funds because of the
government policy to cut down on recurrent funds in the annual budget.
In extension, it was agreed that the cooperatives which the extension agents
were working, should take over the responsibility of covering the running
costs of extension activities, e.g. fuel, spare parts, incentives, etc. for
securing the continuity of these activities after the termination of the
project.
21.     One of the major worries was the role of DRE after the termination of
the project. It was expected that DRE will not be in a position to continue
its monitoring and coordinating role both in research and extension if
sufficient funds will not be made available to sustain these activities.
Being a department in the Ministry was expected to deprive the department from
sufficient funds to maintain running cost necessary for coordination and
monitoring. In addition, the fact that both El Kod and Seiyun centers were
independent financially in the recurrent budget was expected to limit the
supervision and technical control by DRE.
22.     During negotiations between Agriculture Research Authority (ARA) and
DRE before unification, it was agreed to combine the positive aspects of the
two systems. In this regard, it was agreed to adopt the semi-independent
structure of ARA to have better control and flexibility in budget planning and
disbursement. Similarly, it was agreed to combine research and extension
management experienced in DRE to have better understanding of production
problems and to secure continuous two-way flow of information between
research, extension, and production community in a short and sustainable
manner.
Lessons Learned
23.     Practice has shown that detailed reporting in the annual technical
reports, although considered a good practice for junior national staff was,
nevertheless, of no significant value because of the single season nature of
the data collected and reported. The cumulative annual reporting was found to
be a practical solution for compilation of data in annual technical reports.
24.     Analysis of the MTP revealed that many activities were not completed
as planned in the MTP because of the lengthy procedures adopted in the
implementation of research activities. Many research activities were found to
be carried out without sufficient knowledge and available information or
experiences in the field of study.



- 15 -
25.     Experience has shown that there is a need to differentiate and
prioritized activities in the project plan of work. Immediate action should
have been made on issuus that require time and lengthy procedures, e.g.
construction, procurement through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). It
is also important that procurement be grouped in lots and that direct shopping
be restricted to urgent items. However, the evaluation of bids by the Central
Procurement Unit caused considerable delays and contributed to the one year
extension in Credit closing date (this system was abandoned at unification).
26.     The Management of the projects adopted the direct shopping procedure
to bypass the regular bidding procedures, not realizing that even through
direct shopping, the minimum time required for a purchased item to reach the
country was at best not less than one year. The large number of purchases
through direct shopping system led to much administration works in increased
correspondence, and follow-up activities with different local and external
agencies, creating endless problems to project management on the expense of
the timely fulfillment of other obligations, such as administrative,
financial, and technical ones. It must be noted that this fact was realized
towards the end of the projects, and it was obvious that nothing could be done
to remedy the situation.



- 16 -
PART III   SUMMARY STATISTICAL DATA
Table 1. Related Bank Loans and/or IDA Credits
-----------------------------------------------------------------__-----
Loan/Crodit                                     Yoar of
Number              Title                      Avoroval         Status
Cr. 968-YDR     Wadi Tuban Ag. Devt.            1978            Closed
Cr. 615-YDR     Wadi Hadramawt Ag. Devt. I      1976            Closod
Cr. 1346-YDR    Wadi Hadramawt Ag. Devt. IS     1983            Closed
Cr. 2045-YDR    Wadi Hadramawt Ag. Devt. III    1989            ongoing
Cr. 1259-YAR    Ag. Research & Devt.            1982            Closed
Cr. 2299-YEM    Agric. Sector Management
Support Project               1991           Ongoing



- 17 -
Table 2. Project Timetable
LthA                     Planned          Revised           Actual
- Reconnaissance
-  Identification (Executive      July/Aug./1983                July/Aug. 1983
Project Summary)
-  Preparation                    Oct./Nov. 1983                 Oct./Nov. 1983
-  Preappraisal                   February/1984                  February 1984
-  Appraisal Mission              March/April/1984               March/April 1984
-  Negotiations                       n.a.                       January 1985
-  Board Approval                     n.a.                       March 14, 1985
-  Credit Signature                   n.a.                       June 11, 1985
-  Credit Effectiveness           Sept. 11, 1985                 Sept. 26, 1985
-  Credit Completion              June 30, 1990                  Dec. 31, 1991
-  Credit Closing                 Dec. 31, 1990                  Dec. 31, 1991



- 18 -
Table 3s Cumulative Dloburoemento
SDR Million
Quarter                  -----Appraisal Estimate-------   -------Actual--------
Ending                    Absolute    Cumulative            Absolute    Cumulative
Sep 1985                     .10          .10
Dec 1985                     .10          .20                   .64            .64
Mar 1986                     .10          .30                                  .64
Jun 1986                     .20          .50                   .05            .69
Sep 1986                     .20          .70                   .18            .87
Dec 1986                     .20          .90                   .35           1.22
Mar 1987                     .20         1.10                                 1.22
Jun 1987                     .20         1.30                                 1.22
Sep 1987                     .20         1.50                                 1.22
Dec 1987                     .20         1.70                   .15           1.37
Mar 1988                     .30         2.00                   .35           1.72
Jun 1988                     .30         2.30                   .28           2.00
Sep 1988                     .30         2.60                   .25           2.25
Dec 1988                     .40         3.00                   .25           2.50
Mar 1989                     .40         3.40                   .40           2.90
Jun 1989                     .40         3.80                   .10           3.00
Sep 1989                     .30         4.10                   .30           3.30
Dec 1989                     .30         4.40                   .10           3.40
Mar 1990                     .30         4.70                   .36           3.76
Jun 1990                     .20         4.90                   .24           4.00
Sep 1990                     .10         5.00                   .32           4.32
Dec 1990                     .10         5.10                   .17          4.49
Mar 1991                                 5.10                   .11           4.60
Jun 1991                                 5.10                   .07           4.67
Sep 1991                                                        .10          4.77
Dec 1991                                                        .10           4.87
Mar 1992                                                        .195          5.065



- 19 -
Table 4. Proiect Costs and Financin@
A. Prolect Coats
ADoraisal Estimates               Actual
Foreign
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Exchangs   Total
Cost    Lcs       Cot      Co      CosCot
--   (US$ '000)     --       --   (USS '000)    --
Category
- Civil Works                 342.6     639.4    982.0     421.6  1,046.4 1,468.0
- Equipment                   239.1   1,335.7  1,574.9      580.9  2,481.0 3,061.9
- Consultants & Training              1,669.8  1,669.8     ---    2,994.5  2994.5
- Services and Support
to Farmers               1,001.7     433.9  1,439.7      605.3    ---      605.3
=_______________________________________________________
Subtotal               1,583.4   4,078.8  5,662.3   1,607.8  6,521.9 8,129.7
- Physical Contingencies      118.0     324.8    442.8    ----      ----    ----
- Price Contingencies         263.3     622.1    885.4    ----      ----    ----
--------------------------------------------------------
Total Project Cost      1,964.8   5,025.8  6,990.6   1,607.8  6,521.9 8,129.7
S. Pro1act rinancino
Plann-d            Actual
(US$'000)          (US$'000)
IDA                          5,000.0           6,501.5 -/
Government                   2Q000.0           1628.2 (Zstimated)
Total                        7,000.0           8,129.7
a/ The IDA Credit wa- for SDRU 5.1 million (about US$5.0 million equivalent) at
the time of approval. However, due to fluctuations in conversion rates of 8DRr
into US dollars over the life the project, the amount disbursed in US Dollars in
higher though still within the original Credit amount of SDR 5.1 million.



- 20 -
Table 5. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inouts (Staffweeksl
--------------------------------------------------------__---------------
Stage of                        Planned             Revised              Final            Comments
Project Cycle                   Total               Total                Total
Through Appraisal                  n.a.                  n.a.               70.7
March 1984
Appraieal through
Board Approval
March 1985                      n.a.                  n.a.               43.6
Board Approval
through
Effectiveness
September 1985 )                   n.a.                  n.a.
Supervision
starting  1985    )                n.a.                  n.a.               67.2
Total                                                                     181.5
B. Mision Data
Month/    Number of       Days      SpecializatIon   Performance Rating
ProjiSt Cycie               Year       Persons    In Fied   Represented z/    Status  b/                 Probten  c
dentiicatiLon             7/1983         2            14          A;R;
Prepartilon              10/1983         5            25          A;R;Ext;E;
Ext;FM.
Throuoh Acoraisat         4/1984         3            24          Ec;R;Ext.
Board Amrgol.             3/1985         4
ilQffrd Aw  rovl
to Eff cve               11/1985         2
Sucervlslon    1         11/1985         2            13          A, Ec                  1
Supervision    2          07/66          2            15           E                     2                  P;M
Supervision    3          03/87          1             a          A                      2                  P;M
Supervision    4          10/87          2             9           E, A                  2                  P;M
Supervision    5          08/8          3            10           E,                    2                  P;N
Supervision    6          01/89          3            15           A,                    2                  P;M
Supervision    7           12/89         3            13           E,                    2                  P;M
Supervision    8          07/90          3             6           Ec, F, A              2                  P;N
Supervision    9          06/91          3            77           Ec, A, Env, AcId    2                    P;M
Supervision   10           10/91         1            18           E                     2                  P:M
a/   Key to SpecializatIon:   Es Engineer; A: Agriculturlst;Ac: Accountent; Ec: Economist; Ext.:Extenslon
Speciatist; P: Research Speclalfst;Env: Environment Specaliest; Fs Financiel analyst; VU Women In
Developmnt SpecialIst.
w    Key to Status: 1 a Problem-fre  or Minor problem; 2 * Moderate probleme; 3 * Major Problem
S/ Key to Problems: P: Procurement; N: Manageralo.



- 21 -
Table 6. Probert ResukclmDlementatlon
Key Performance Indices
Product                                                     Status
1. Civil Works Constructfon
(t)  Eighteen-bedroom dormitory at El               All planrwd construction of dormitory/hostel
Kod Research Center (Abyan.                    accommodation and research modernization work
(ii)  Six-bedroom hostel at Lodar                    completed by 1/90.
Research Station (Abyan).
(iii)  Twenty housing units for field                 FEA housing 80 percent complete and dditiona  sotis
extenslon agents (FEA);                        analysis laboratory (Selyun) completed 12/90
modernization of research
facilities.
(Iv)  Erection of greenhouses at El Kod              Design and cost estImates accepted and tendering
nd Selyun Research Centers,                    postponed until follow-u p project.
2. Vehicles and Ec iument
(i)  Procurement 17 four-wheel drive                Delivery of vehicles completed 10/89
vehicles, 3 trucks, 3 pick-ups and
120 motorcycles.
(ii)  Procurement of equipment for                   Farm machinery and library  quipment complete;
research farm, laboratories and                laborstory equipment 90 percent complete.
Iibrar4es/documentation.
(iMi)  Procurement of equipment for                   Completed 10/89.
Commfuncation Unit (CU) and FEAs.
3. Trainina
(i) Research scientists:                            280 mm completed to date.
30 short/medium-term courses (312
m)-
(ii)  Extension and communications:                  Coupleted to 10/90.
5 short/medium-term courses (72
m)-
4. Technical Assistance
0i)  Sr. Research Advisor (42 mm)                   Fulfilled (48 mm) departed 7/89.
(ii)  Extension Advisor (18 mm)                      Fulfilled (30 mm) departed 4/89.
(iMi)  Communications Advisor (12 mm)                 Fulfilled (12 mm) departed 10/88.
(cv)  Ag. Economics Advisor (12 mm)                  Completed (6 mm) departed 10/89.
Cv)  Consultancies (6 mu)                           Total of 9 mu  completed to date, with approximately
3 mu approved for recruitment.
5. Institutional Dsvelooments
(i)  Strengthening of Department of                 Achieved as planrnd, with Multi-Disciplinary
Research and Extension (DRE)  nd               Research Teams (MDRT) and experienced Research-
national coordination of R&E                   Extension Coordinators.
activities.
(ii)  Creation of Agricultural Research              Technical Research Comuittees operating effectively
and Extension Committees within DRE            In El Kod and Seiyun, with regular liaison with
and establishment of national                  extenslon service subject matter specialists (SRS).
Agricultural Research and Extension            ARE Council established In 1987 and superseded by
Council.                                       National Council for Sciences In 1989.



- 22 -
Table 7. STATUS OF COVENANTS
Sectlon     Status    Chfinu         Revised             Descrbtkon of Covenant                Cosmmnts
Date          Data
3.02 DCA       OK       12/31/85       06/24/86      Establish Ag. Research and
Extenslon Comfttee
4.02 OCA       OK       12/83          12/86         DRE to be responsible for
(Cii)                                               extension in PDRY
4.02 DCA       OK       12/86          12/86         Appoint Ag. Extenslon Supervisor
(a)
4.02 DCA    Not lple-  12/86           N/A           Eight farmer groups to be           Conaldered liprectical
(d)         mented                                   established for form               d&w to land tenwre
machinery tease                     system and farm size



IBRD 18277
45-                                                A48                                                    81-                        OCTOBER 1984
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC-REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT                                                                                         P' 't  --
PROJECT FEATURES                                       5                 >t                                                       0   AN
______ M..n Agricvlturol Area,                        ELEVATIONS                                      _ /
A    PNol.ct Reseorch Stations                      2000 fierte /s                                                                                         1\.
EXISTING FEATURES                             1000
o    Selected Tcwns and Villoges                   200                               A
o    Gonernorote Copitals                          0
*    Notional Copitat                                                           /
    Airports                                                                    %j
4' Ports
-       Prinsory Roads
Secondary Roods                                                   .f -   -'jl /i
 Wodis                                                                             * ) s      Ji     /  /-
--.-  GaGernorate  undaries--
_._- International Boundaries
/                          -wL;~~~~-                                                                     rolrherw  
7~~~~~~~~~~~7
Y E M E N                    Al Ayn70_
A  R  A   B                  S/Evz
R  E  P.                                                                                                   sh                                 -;
*                                                                      ~~~~~ ~~~.y  -    iy'- s'=
100 20
KILOMETERS
Tr wr h. D_e ors brey er.ry e  aew bo~.Wr dl 
12  7~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~A5y  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                Si~~~~V ..      ykw   *



