Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C -? /S-s->- Y.de
Report No. 5274-YDR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
February 1, 1985
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performsnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Yemeni Dinar (YD) =  US$2.915
1 us$               =  YD 0.343
(as of October 1984)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                =  1.09 yards = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           =  1,000 meters = 0.6214 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)             =  10,000 square meters = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 square kilometer (kn2)   =  100 ha = 0.386 square miles (sq. mi)
1 kilogram (kg)            =  2.205 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (t)           =  1,000 kilograms = 0.98 long tons (Ig ton)
1 liter (1)                =  0.264 gallons (gal)
GLOSSARY
ACSAD     =  Arab Center for Studies of Arid Zones and Dry Lands
AES       =  Agriculture Extension Supervisor
AOAD      =  Arab Organization for Agricultural Development
AREC      =  Agricultural Research and Extension Council
AVRDC     =  Asian Vegetable Research Development Center
CIMMYT    =  International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
COCA      =  Central Organization for Control and Audit
CU        =  Communications Unit
DI        =  Director of Information
DRE       =  Department of Research and Extension
FAO       =  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FEA       =  Field Extension Agent
GDP       =  Gross Domestic Product
HTC       =  Hame Trade Corporation
ICARDA    =  International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas
ICB       =  International Competitive Bidding
CRISAT   =  International Crop Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics
IDA       =  International Development Association
IFAD      =  International Fund for Agricultural Development
LCB       =  Local Competitive Bidding
LIT       =  Limited International Tendering
MAAR      =  Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
MDRT      =  Multi-Disciplinary Research Team
MOC       =  Ministry of Construction
MRS       =  Machinery Renting Station
NBY       =  National Bank of Yemen
PCMFV     =  Public Corporation for Marketing of Fruits and Vegetables
PASC      =  Public Agricultural Service Corporation
PDRY      =  People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
SFYP      =  Second Five Year-Plan
SMS       =  Subject Matter Specialist
SRA       =  Senior Research Advisor
TCP       =  Technical Cooperation Program
UNDP      =  United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FO-R OICAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                         Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-i
I.       SECTOR BACKGROUND
A.  The Agricultural Sector. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
B.  Strategy, Performance, Policies. . . . . . . . . .  6
C. IDA's Previous Projects and Sector
Lending Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8
II.      THE PROJECT
A. Rationale, Genesis, Objectives and Policy
Environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
B.  Project Area . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . L0
C.  Brief Description of the Project . . . . . . . . .  11
D.  Research Component: Detailed Description . . . . .  12
E.  Extension Component: Detailed Description. . . . .  16
F.  Cost Estimates and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . 21
G. Procurement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
E.  Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
I.  Environmental Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
J.  Role of Women. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
III.     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management. . . . . . . . . . . . 25
B.  Internationally Recruited Staff. . . . . . . . . . 27
C. Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
D. Civil Works. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
E.  Incremental Staff and Operating Costs  . . . . . . 28
F. Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
G.  Accounts and Audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
IV.      BENEFITS. INSTITUTIONAL IMPACT, RISKS
AND ECONOMIC ASPECTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
V.       AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS.  . . . . . . . 32
The project was identified by IDA-FAOfCP in JuLv 1983 and prepared by FAO/CP
in November 1983.  It was appraised in March/April 1984 by a team consisting
of Messrs. P.F. van der Goot (Team Leader), J. Fuad (IDA) and P. Michaelides
(Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offiidal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES                                                      Paae No.
1:    Summary Accounts Cost Summary
and Project Components by Year . . . . . . . . . . . 33
2:    Summary Account by Project Component   . . . . . . . . 34
3:    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements. . . . . . . . . . 35
4:    Draft Terms of Reference for Expatriate Advisors . . . 36
5:    Training Schedule. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
6:    Recommended Extension Packages . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
7:    Terms of Reference for Selected             6
Field Extension Staff. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
8:    Brief Task Description of Senior Extension
Personnel in the Governorates. . . . . . . . . . . . 43
9:    Extension Staff Needs by Qualification
and Period of Recruitment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
10:   Major Research Results in Period Before 1984 . . . . . 45
11:   Present Research Staff and Budget. . . . . . . . . . . 46
12:   Extension Personnel and Budget . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
13:   Specific Proposed Research Programs. . . . . . . . . . 48
CHARTS
World Bank 26255 - Proposed Organization Chart for Department of
Research and Extension
World Bank 26254 - Implementation Schedule
MAP
IBRD 18277 - PDRY; Agricultural Research and Extension Project;
Project Features
PROJECT FILE
A.       Detailed Project Costs
B.       Detailed Equipment Lists
C.       Detailed Drawings of Civil Works



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Borrower:    Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen.
Amount:      SDRs 5.1 million (about US$5.0 million equivalent).
Terms:       Standard IDA.
Beneficiary: Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
Project Objectives
and Description:  The project aims to strengthen agricultural research in PDRY
and to develop a national extension service for transmitting
the research findings to the farming community. This would
be accomplished by: (i) establishing priority research pro-
grams to focus on those agricultural activities which are
economically significant; (ii) establishing multi-discipli-
nary research teams to work on those programs; (iii)
strengthening linkages between research, extension and the
farming community, and (iv) establishing a national exten-
sion service. The project components include: (a) strength-
ening the Department of Research and Extension through
internal reorganization and provision of technical assis-
tance; (b) strengthening research activities through internal
reorganization, provision of technical assistance, training
and funds to equip the research stations; (c) establishing
an extension service through provision of technical assis-
tance, training and funds necessary for an appropriate
infrastructure, and (d) expansion of an existing development
communications unit.
Benefits          The project would directly benefit about 35,000 farming
and Risks:        families (nearly 200,000 persons).  through development and
application of new technology packages. A risk to the
project stems from rigidities in the overall organizational
and policy environment, which may constrain farmers'
responsiveness to change. The project would call for a
wider application of the reform measures introduced under
the recently approved Wadi Hadramawt Project (Cr.
1346-YDR). IDA would provide assistance to the Government,
through its lending strategy and further sector work
(planned for 1986), for continuation of the gradual reform
of sector policies which has been initiated lately.



Estimated Project Cost: /1
Component                            Local            ForeiRn           Total
-     ~US$ mllion
Support to DRE                         0.1               0.1              0.2
Research Stations                      0.3               1.4              1.7
Extension Service                      1.2               0.8              2.0
Technical Assistance /2                 -                1.0              1.0
Training                                _                0.8              0.8
Base Cost                          1.6              4.1               5.7
Physical Contingencies                 0.1               0.3              0.4
Price Contingencies                    0.3               0.6              0.9
Total Cost /3
Financing Plan:
Local           Foreign            Total
US$ million
IDA                                     -                 5.0               5.0
Government                             2.0                 -                2.0
Total                               20J 
1 Rounded figures
/ Including PPF advance of US$100,000.
3 Exclusive of taxes and duties from which public projects are exempt.
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA Fiscal Year
1986     1987       1988      1989     1990     1991
US$ million        -
Annual                     0.5      0.8        1.0       1.2      1.0      0.5
Cumulative                0.5       1.3        2.3       3.5      4.5      5.0
Economic Rate of Return:  not applicable.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATTC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCq AND EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
1.01     Summary.  Agriculture in PDRY accounts presently for only 8% of GDP,
though nearly 40% of the labor force is employed in the sector. During the
last decade, there was almost no growth in the sector and as a consequence,
agricultural imports for a rapidly growing population increased by more than
2.5% p.a., and food imports alone corresponded in 1983 to about 40% of GDP.
Agricultural exports other than fisheries' products are practically
non-existent. Like the rest of the economy, the sector is largely centrally
controlled, but in recent years Government has been introducing significant
liberalizing measures in key policy areas (paras. 1.24 and 1.25)
Land, Water and Labor Resources
1.02     PDRY's scant natural resources and harsh climate severely limit its
agricultural potential. Potentially cultivable land is about 200,000 ha (less
than 1% of the country's total land area). Out of this area, on an average of
about 70,000 ha crops are grown annually. Agriculture is almost entirely
dependent upon irrigation. The amount of land served by irregular spate flows
ranges from a base minimum of about 40,000 ha up to 70,000 ha annually. Well
irrigation provides water for about 20,000 ha of crops. In recent years, the
country suffered from a succession of floods and droughts which also contri-
buted to sector stagnation. The size of most farms is between I and 3
hectares, with less than one hectare cropped per family, on the average.
1.03     About 200,000 people, 40% of the PDRY labor force, work in agricul-
ture. However, as a result of substantial out-migration to Saudi Arabia and
the Gulf States and also from the rural areas to the construction sector in
Aden, the residual agricultural population is aging and has a high ratio of
women to men. The type of agriculture practiced, particularly in the spate
irrigation areas, is highly seasonal. As a result there are labor shortages
and high wage rates at critical times, but low agricultural incomes and
considerable rural under-employment are in evidence over the year as a whole.
Organization of Production
1.04     Following the agrarian reform and the general restructuring of the
agricultural sector in the early seventies, agricultural production is largely
undertaken by cooperatives and state farms and, in remote areas, by private
individuals outside the cooperative sub-sector. Excluding qat production,
about 60% of agricultural value added comes from about 60 cooperatives, 20%
from 35 state farms and 20% from private farms.l/ Main crops are sorghum,
wheat, cotton, fruits and vegetables and fodder crops. Crop yields are
generally low (para. 2.05).
1/ Data on the quantity and value of production of the stimulant qat is
unreliable, but on the basis of tax receipts, value added at market prices is
thought to be about 15% of total agricultural value added.



-2-
1.05     Between them, the cooperatives cultivate annually about 40,000-50,000
ha of crops. About 40S of their area is irrigated from wells and the remainder
by spate flcws.  Cooperatives, which fall under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR), act as Government's link
with producers. Their councils are responsible for drawing up annual cropping
patterns  for  their members which are consistent with Government's overall
sector strategy.  In addition, they are responsible for collecting from their
members the state taxes on agricultural production, which vary from 10X to 202
of the gross value of production, depending on the crop.  The 35 state farms
cultivate about 7,000 ha of well-irrigated land annually. Each farm has its
own manager and is operated using full-time employees and its own equipment.
With some notable exceptions, many cooperatives and state farms continue to be
poorly managed and are financially weak.
1.06     Private farmers not serviced by the cooperative system exist in the
more remote parts of the country. Data on these is skimpy. However, it is
reckoned that these producers cultivate an average of 15,000-25,000 ha of
field crops annually, normally using spate irrigation. Qat production, which
is highly profitable, is also undertaken by the private sector under a govern-
ment licensing system in the high-altitude region adjoining the Yemen Arab
Republic.  Data on this activity is unavailable.  However, the crop is re-
stricted to quite a small area (about 1,000 ha) and is largely unconnected
with other forms of agriculture.
Supporting Institutions and Services
1.07     Input Supply and Marketing.  Under the PDRY economic regime, agri-
cultural inputs are supplied only by the public sector and at prices con-
trolled by Government.   Fertilizer,  seed,  chemicals, spare parts,  etc. are
made available to cooperatives or state farms by the Public Agricultural
Services Corporation (PASC), and mechanized services by the Machinery Renting
Stations (!RS) of the MAAR.  Similarly, most agricultural products are sold
through the cooperatives to state-owned organizations at fixed prices/I.
However, in the case of vegetables, farmers may, if they wish, sell up to 40%
of ten specified items at prices not exceeding official prices by more than
50S./2 As most means of transport are publicly owned, the amount of direct
marketing is small and limited to local sales in the production areas.  The
Public Corporation for Marketing of Fruits and Vegetables (PCMFV) mainly
operates as a wholesaler bringing supplies from the production areas to its
depots or large shops in the cities. Animal fodder, which in value terms
amounts to more than 20% of agricultural production, is excluded from these
arrangements. Qat, which is estimated to comprise about 15% by value of PDRY
agricultural production, is also handled by the private sector.
1.08     Credit.  The sole credit institution for agriculture is the National
Bank of Yemen (NBY). Audit reports of its operations show that NBY had no bad
debts in the agricultural sector since 1974/75 and that repayments are overdue
on only about lOZ of agricultural  loans.  To maintain its sound financial
position, NBY follows conservative lending policies. In spite of a blanket
/1 Rome Trade Corporation (HTC) and Public Corporation for Marketing of
Fruits and Vegetables (PCMFV)
/2 Onions, garlic, potatoes, eggplant, tomatoes, carrots, watermelons,
melons, bananas and peas (known as "the group of ten").



-3-
Government guarantee on loans to agricultural cooperatives, it only lends to
those which it considers financially sound and competently run. About half of
all cooperatives are not considered creditworthy from the NBY's standpoint and
do not merit overdraft facilities.  Furthermore, its 20 odd branches have to
channel most agricultural lending presently through its Aden office. Further,
the input supply institution (PASC) complains that its credit lines are
insufficient for importing the quarntities of spare parts and other items
requested by its customers.  Present lending rates of NBY to agriculture are
5.5S and 5.0X for short and medium-term loans, respectively, except in IDA-
financed projects in which rates are two to three points higher.  It lends to
cooperatives and state farms, but not to private farmers; it does not practice
lending in kind.
1.09     Manpower Training.  Lack of skilled manpower is a serious and wide-
spread  constraint  in  the sector.   In recent years,  however,  considerable
attention has been given to the training of skilled manpower in agriculture.
Important efforts include activities supported by four IDA-assisted projects.
The First Education Project (Credit 494-YDR of FY75) established, among others,
a farm machinery and rural skills training center with a potential annual
output of about 600 workers. The IDA's draft Project Performance Audit Report
of February 1984 considers that it is premature to comment on the outcome of
this component as its full impact cannot yet be established. Under the Second
Education Project (Credit 865-YDR of FY79), an agricultural training center is
being  established.   This  center  will  provide  two-year  courses  with  an
enrollment  of  about  100 skilled agricultural workers.   Further,  under the
Third Education Project (Credit 1222-YDR of FY82), an agricultural technical
institute will be financed. This institute, with a five-year secondary level
program, has a planned output of 80 graduates per year from 1990.  Finally,
the recently approved IDA Fourth Education Project (Credit SF-19-YDR of FY84)
provides for strengthening the Ciar Agricultural Training Center by creating
150 additional places with an output of 265 p.a., comprising technicians,
skilled workers and extension personnel; for local training of extension per-
sonnel, the present project will therefore rely entirely on the facilities
provided in Giar under this education project and would be complementary to it.
1.10     Higher Education.   The University of Aden,  under  the Ministry  of
Education, has a four-year program leading to a B.Sc. degree at the Faculty of
Agriculture at Lahej. Unfortunately, as the courses offered at this institu-
tion emphasize theory at the expense of practical instruction, the graduates
are unable to plJay a useful role in the country's agricultural development,
unless provided with lengthy reorientation in field work and further training
overseas.  This is recognized by Faculty staff, and is expected to lead to a
thorough review of its entire structure.
1.11     Research.  Research in agriculture in PDRY dates back only to 1955,
when under British rule the El Kod Research station was established for
developing long-staple cotton for export.   After Independence in 1967, the
country's basic framework was shifted from what was essentially a service-
oriented free enterprise economy to production development within the context
of a planned economy. Agriculture was to play a more important role in the
development process than in the past. Given the limitations on increasing the
agricultural area of the country, expansion of agricultural output was to come
mainly from increased productivity per unit of land. Following various phases
of FAO/UNDP assistance, research at El Kod Center, which serves the low-
altitude areas, has been gradually expanded, and staff, facilities and
supporting services have generally been developed in parallel.   The Seiyun



4-
Research Center, which is located in the Fifth Governorate (Hadramawt) 550 kma
N.E. of Aden (Map IBRD 18277), was established in 1972.  rt serves the mid-
altitude agriculture  areas  (1200m-2000m)  of  PDRY.   Besides  the  two major
research centers mentioned above, there are 11 sub-stations. One such sub-
station, depending on El Kod, is Lawdar in the mid-altitude region of Abyan
Governorate and is important for research on potatoes and citrus. The results
of this long FAO/UNDP assistance are summarized in Annex 10.
1.12     Present State of Research.  The Department of Research and Extension
(DRE) of MAAR has overall responsibility for research carried out at El Kod
and Seiyun Research Centers as well as in the nurseries attached to these.
Compared to results achieved in previous decades, rescarch findings in recent
years have been modest in spite of relatively high expenditures. This is due
to ill-defined research priorities and objectives, insufficient coordination
with extension, rather poorly motivated research staff, weak organization and
management, especially at El Kod, and inadequate direction from DRE. Neverthe-
less, various significant results have been achieved and a number of technolo-
gical packages have been developed.   Details of staff presently employed are
in Annex 11.
1.13     Present Research Programs.  Present research programs emphasize:  (i)
the introduction of high-yielding cultivars; (ii) the improvement of land
preparation and irrigation techniques and development of suitable crop rota-
tions for state farms and cooperatives; (iii) investigation of problems
related to soil salinity and fertilization; (iv) determining efficient means
of disease, pest and especially of weed control; (v) minimizing post-harvest
losses; (vi) the study of suitable wind-breaks, and (vii) improving the
efficient  utilization  of  farm machinery.   Collaboration with international
research centers has been established.
1.14     Research  Constraints.   Part  of  the  research  staff  is  presently
working on non-research activities, such as those related to various national
production programs which supply inputs and services, as well as on extension
in selected areas.  The limited research activities undertaken are poorly-
managed, and insufficiently related to national development priorities, and
the staff is poorly motivated.  This is particularly true in the case of El
Kod, and, to a lesser extent for Seiyun. The total research activity at El Kod
is now modest for the staff resources available. It is alleged that this lack
of activity is due to shortage of funds to meet operating costs, but there is
a fundamental imbalance in the ratio of staff salaries and operating costs.
Furthermore, over time, the senior staff have created compartmentalized units
based on disciplines, and coordination between these has proven difficult to
achieve. Other causes for the present situation are frequent staff changes at
higher levels, and, especially in the case of El Kod, the reluctance of
management and staff to devise and execute appropriate simple experimental
programs.  In summary, though a nunber of technological packages and recommen-
dations have been formulated, much more could have been achieved with the
resources available.
1.15     Extensior..  Agricultural extension in PDRY started in 1975 as part of
the activities of the El Kod and Seiyun research centers.  With the establish-
ment of the Giar Agricultural Training Center in 1977, training of both farmers
and lower level employees of MAAR came to be somewhat more organized.  In the
field, three regional extension units have been established under the Direc-
tors of Agriculture in their respective Governorates (Lahej, Shabwa and
Hadramawt).   Futher,  under the  IDA-assisted projects, small extension units



were set up to support the Wadi Hadramawt I Project (in Hadramawt
Governorate), the Wadi Tuban Project (in Lahej Governorate) and more recently
the Wadi Beihan Project (in Shabwa Governorate). Three-quarters of the 90
extension agents belong to the extension units created under the IDA-assisted
projects. Some extension work and technical assistance were also provided for
under the IFAD-assisted Agricultural Support Services Project, which started
operations in 1980. The extension service established under the First Wadi
Hadramawt project is now operating reasonably well, while those under the
other two projects are still in their initial phases.  Details on available
personnel and the existing budget allocation are in Annex 12.
1.16     Present  Organization  of  Extension.   A  major  development  in  the
evolution of extension work was the establishment, in 1980, of the Department
for Research and Extension (DRE) in MAAR.  It laid the foundation for the
establishment of a comprehensive national field extension service directly
under the control of the DRE, which would integrate fragmented existing
activities and would permit further expansion in a coordinated manner. With
only two professional staff at DRE headquarters (the Director and his Deputy),
attention has been focussed on sustaining the ongoing national production
programs, i.e., country-wide production, plant protection and weed control
programs, with little attention paid to management of, and policy formulation
for, extension staff.
1.17     Present Extension Activities.  Extension work in PDRY relies heavily
on establishing demonstration plots in cooperative farms, in conjunction with
the national production programs. Inputs such as seeds, fertilizers and pesti-
cides are made available free of charge.  The impact of .such activities in
disseminating improved technology amongst farmers appears rather modest as the
plots are poorly managed, and participating farmers see little of relevance
for their specific  needs.   Further,  although women constitute  the  larger
proportion of the rural labor force, neither the staffing of the service nor
the methods employed are directed toward women. A small Communications Unit
(CU) in MAAR is well-organized to produce audio-visual materials for radio and
TV   broadcasting,   but   is   not   sufficiently   integrated   into   the
research/extension system to be really effective.
1.18     Impact.   In sunmumry, though  technological packages are available,
there is generally no explicit planning or priority setting underlying the
work of extension agents, except under the First and Second Wadi Hadramawt
Projects where selected extension packages (for wheat, tomato and potato) are
being disseminated systematically. Regular training of extension personnel is
inadequate, and the methodology used is one which brings only a small percen-
tage of farmers infrequently into contact with partial aspects of improved
technology.   There is little evidence of  serious  and planned attempts  to.
change farmers' attitudes or to influence their decision-making.
1.19     Linkage of Extension with Research.  There is no formal system for
integrating the extension service with research work beyond the opportunities
which exist for the extension units established in the IDA-assisted projects
to disseminate improved technology, provided the research findings are promptly
communicated to them.  However, at present this is done through irregularly
published information bulletins and casual and personal contacts between
research and extension personnel, during the somewhat theoretically oriented
training courses held in Giar Agricultural Training Center at which research
scientists  from  El  Kod  are  presently  the  principal  instructors.   These
arrangements are hardly adequate for ensuring a satisfactory nexus between
research and extension.



-6-
B. Strategy, Performance, Policies
Government's Development Strategy
1.20     The current Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP), 1981-85, states the Govern-
ment's major agricultural sector objectives as: (i) achieving self-sufficiency
in fruit and vegetable production; (ii) providing 60% to 702 of the national
food grain requirement; (iii) increasing agricultural exports (tobacco and
cotton), and (iv) providing raw materials for agro-industries. Investment
priorities are irrigation schemes, farm mechanization and applied research and
extension to raise agricultural output and productivity. The plan envisages a
major role for agricultural research, including the further development of
research substations, as well as for strengthening and expanding MAAR's modest
existing extension activities. Thus, a research and extension project accords
well with both strategy and investment priorities.
1.21     Given the present low average consumption of fruits and vegetables
relative to requirements under PDRY's climatic conditions, the first sector
objective is fully justified and attainable. The food grains production
objective, on the other hand, is clearly unrealistic and reflects security
concerns, rather than considerations of comparative advantage. Nevertheless,
as present grain yields are low, substantial scope exists for more cost-
effective production on existing acreage. The third and fourth objectives
appear to be identical, to the extent that certain grades and qualities of the
same commodities (cotton, tobacco, fruits) would be for export, while others
are for domestic processing.  Expanded production of these commodities would
generally be consistent with considerations of comparative advantage. Govern-
ment investment priorities are broadly consistent with this strategy, except
that they do not sufficiently provide for investment needs of key supporting
sector functions, such as product marketing, cooperative management, and credit
expansion. Further IDA assistance and sector discussions are expected to lead
to a better balance in investment priorities (paras. 1.28 and 1.29).
1.22     Performance.  Agricultural output did not grow during the last decade,
and, following significant growth in other parts of the economy, the sector's
contribution to GDP fell from about 142 in 1973 to 8% in 1982. This has
resulted in an increase in the proportion of imported grains from about 60X of
total supply in 1974/75, to about 752 in 1981/82, reflecting a decline in
domestic output and the larger demand stimulated by population growth. Based
on present trends, grain imports by 1985186 would be about 285,000 tons at a
market cost of about US$70 million. Similarly, meat and dairy imports rose
rapidly between 1974/75 and 1981/82. Presently, about 40Z of GDP is spent on
food imports alone. Production statistics of agro-industries indepen-
dently confirm the stagnating or downward trend of agricultural production;
the output of ginned cotton fell by 40Z between 1975 and 1981, tomato canning
remained constant and leather production fell by about one-half. Although the
sector's forward linkages are still modest, poor agricultural performance
clearly has had wider repercussions elsewhere in the economy.
1.23     Constraints.  The causes of sector stagnation are manifold.  The
series of droughts and floods in recent years has been an important factor
contributing to poor sector performance (as it has been in the neighboring
Yemen Arab Republic). At least equally important is the application of
centrally planned production decisions which leave insufficient flexibility in
the sector and often inadequate incentives to producers. Lately, however,



-7-
Government has started to introduce gradually measures which aim at lessening
central control (para. 1.24). Additional growth impeding factors include the
continuing shortage of competent domestic sector managers causing weak state
farm and cooperative production structures, liquidity problems for a number of
cooperatives, problems with input supplies and marketing and the insufficiency
of applied research and extension services, except for work done in externally-
financed irrigation projects.
1.24     Policies.  As in other sectors, Government's policy is to operate a
centrally planned system, including physical production targets, pric:I controls
for most inputs and outputs, public ownership of farm machinery and mostly
state owned marketing organizations.  In response to sector stagnation over
the last decade, Government has now started to introduce measures which aim at
gradually reducing central controls.  IDA has made substantial contributions
toward these  changes, acting as a major catalyst.   The preparation of an
Agricultural Sector Memorandum (1983) and subsequent discussions of its main
recommendations, and the conditionality incorporated in the recently approved
Second Wadi Hadramawt Project provided the context for significant policy
changes at the sector and project levels. The sectoral changes are mainly as
follows:
(1)    Acreage Controls.  Attempts to influence production by acreage
controls are gradually being abandoned. Annual plan "targets"
are becoming the summmtion of the cropping patterns established
by cooperatives and state farms in line with national production
priorities; detailed planning from the bottom up is replacing
directives from the top down. In about five cooperatives, which
benefit from well-trained extension workers, the system is
already in place.  Further application of this approach will be
facilitated by the expansion and improvement of the extension
service as contemplated under the proposed project;
(ii)    Producer Prices.  A  Government decree  of  1983 substitutes a
policy of more frequent producer price changes (still con-
trolled) throughout the year, for the earlier one of virtually
constant prices, irrespective of season, supply or demand.  The
mechanism for implementation is presently being worked out. IDA
technical assistance to assist MAAR in this area is being
provided for;
(iii)    Input Subsidies.  In the course of the past years, and largely
due to IDA insistence, Government has reduced average subsidies
on farm machinery rental and fertilizer prices from about 50Z to
252, and water charges are presently being revised upwards; and
(iv)    Marketing.  Government is, in principle, prepared to allow for a
substantial participation of the private sector in the vitally
important area of marketing of fruits and vege.ables, and to
alter substantially the present role of the Public Corporation
for Marketing of Fruits and Vegetables.  IDA is presently having
discussions with Government to determine appropriate policies
for pricing, marketing and the role of private enterprise.  If
and when mutually acceptable solutions are developed, preparation
of an IDA-assisted Fruit and Vegetable Marketing Project is
expected to proceed.



-8-
1.25     Project-Related Policy Changes.  The principal policy changes which
Government has agreed to implement under the Second Wadi Hadramawt Project
(Cr. 1346-YDR) are summarized below:
(i)    The control of tractors and pumpsets will be transferred from
public entities who own them, to small groups of 10-20 coopera-
tive members working together;
(ii)    Abolition of the direct marketing tax, which acts as a disincen-
tive, and will be replaced by: (a) a land betterment tax towards
the cost of improved irrigation and, (b) an increase in the tax
on  qat  production.   The  latter  change  has  already  been
introduced, and;
(iii)    Provision of long-term usufruct rights for land under perennial
crops and rights for the transfer (not sale) of these to rela-
tives.  This is now being introduced in other areas as well.
C. IDA's Previous Projects and Sector Lending Strategy
Previous Projects
1.26     Apart from three fisheries projects, of which one has been completed,
there are four IDA-assisted projects in the agricultural sector,. all for
development of irrigated agriculture. The First Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural
Developmenr Project (Cr. 615-YDR for US$7.0 million) was completed in July
1982.  It aimed at increasing agricultural production on about 8,000 ha of
irrigated land through provision of extension services, inputs and feeder
roads, and provided for village water supply as well as for a feasibility
study on groundwater development. The Project Performance Audit Report (Report
No. 4944) concludes that the project has had only a limited impact on produc-
tion; i.e. gross value of output increased by only 102 in real terms and the
reestimated rate of return was 8Z, compared to an estimate of 171 at appraisal.
However, it points out that the full benefits of the project will not be
realized before completion of the successor Second Wadi Hadrasnawt Project.
1.27     The Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project (768-YDR for US$5.2 million), the
Wadi Beihan Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1145-YDR for US$8.0 million)
and the Second Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1346-YDR
for US$8.3 million), which are still under implementation, are all similar in
their objectives, i.e., expansion of irrigated area, provision of physical
infrastructure, and establishment of extension services. Performance of these
projects is, by and large, satisfactory.  Problems have been encountered on
account of staffing inadequacies and too frequent changes (generally with
expatriate advisors). Consequently, there have been delays in compliance by
Government with credit covenants, particularly with reference to organization.
These factors apart, PDRY authorities are pragmatic and responsive to implemen-
tation issues raised by supervision missions.   About three-quarters of the
total present extension staff in PDRY (Annex 12) is employed in the three
ongoing IDA projects. Their activities are concentrated on dissemination of a
limited number of extension packages in cooperatives. The lack of feed-back
to research, however, impedes the formulation of specific improvements under
different conditions. The integration of these local extension efforts into a
national service with close linkages to research at both the local and
national level, as intended under the project, should be highly beneficial.
C



-9-
IDA's Lending StrategY
1.28     After a decade of substantial investment in irrigation and emphasis
on regional development, IDA's sectoral investment strategy aims now at
strengthening, on a country-wide basis, key supporting services with a view to
increasing returns to investments already made. The present project aims at
enhancing the efficiency of research and extension. As an institution-building
project it seeks to: (i) restructure the existing research organization; (ii)
forge effective links between policy makers, and research and extension staff,
and (iii) associate the extension service with cooperative management.   It
would also bring about a wider application of reform measures on a pilot scale.
1.29     A possible future Fruit and Vegetable Marketing Project would aim at
the thorough reorganization of the inefficient state controlled marketing
system (para 1.24). Further in the future, it may be possible to consider a
project which would aim at strengthening cooperative management, as well as
the organization of input supplies and credit. These two projects would call
for very specific elements of policy conditionality (e.g. pricing, marketing,
interest rates, role of private enterprise). In the context of such projects
and further sector work, IDA dialogue with Government on the various policy
issues would be continued.
It. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale. Genesis, Objectives and Policy Environment
Rationale
2.01     During the last decade substantial investment has taken place in PDRY
irrigated agriculture, with IDA participation in four projects (paras 1.26 and
1 .27). The scope for further expansion of irrigated areas is now very limited
and  its marginal cost is extremely high.  Further increases in aggregate
output must therefore mainly come from productivity increases in the areas
already irrigated.  Information collected to date indicates that considerable
scope exists to increase crop yields and enhance efficient land use.
Technological innovation in PDRY agriculture is still in its infancy and
returns to improvement are high. While some improvement is beginning to occur
in the policy environment which has not provided for adequate incentives in
the past, it is reasonable to expect that farmers can gain a significant share
of the benefits of further technological advance. However, this advance is
presently handicapped by major weaknesses in agricultural research and
extension.    Some  research  can  be  borrowed,  particularly  through  the
international centers, but a national capability is indispensable because of
the specificity of national conditions. Recognizing this, Government upgraded
the research service in 1980 to a Department of Research and Extension (DRE).
However, as yet DRE has not developed a capability to direct either research
or extension work effectively. The rationale for the present project is that
it will help realize the production potential of PDRY agriculture, and also,
in this sense, ensure improved returns to investments made in past and ongoing
development projects partically financed by IDA.
Genesis
2.02     A research and extension project was recommended in the Agricultural
Sector Memorandum (Report No.  4006-YDR) of April  1983.   An  identification



- 10 -
mission was undertaken in July 1983 by an IDA/FAO-CP team; an FAO-CP prepara-
tion mission visited the country in October/November 1983 and was followed by
an IDA/FAO-CP mission in February 1984.  During  this preparation  process,
Government accepted a gradual reduction of total project costs from the
original figure of about US$22 million to about US$7 million, so as to bring
the level of the proposed investment in line with the relative economic
importance of the sector.
Objectives
2.03     The main objectives of the project are to strengthen the research and
extension activities of PDRY, to make these more cost-effective and to
increase the utility of research activities by improving the motivation and
organization of the research staff.  These objectives will be accomplished
through the following means:
(i)   establishing  priority  research  programs  to  focus  on  those
commodities which are of economic significance to PDRY and
which would include fruits and vegetables, cereals. fodders and
industrial crops;
xii)  establishing multi-disciplinary  research teams to carry out
these research programs;
Ciii) strengthening linkages between research, extension and the
farming community to ensure a two-way flow of information for
the development and effective use of improved technology
packages, and
(iv) strengthening the extension services to more adequately serve
the needs of about 35,000 farmers in about 40 cooperatives as
well as in 20 state farms in three Governorates.
2.04     Policsy  Environment   The  primary  objective  of  the  project  is
institution building. Obviously, its efficiency and usefulness will depend,
to a large extent, upon the overall framework of sector policies and programs
within which it will operate. Government, often in conjunction with IDA, has
lately initiated a series of changes aimed at a gradual liberalization of
parts  of  the sector  (paras  1.24 and  1.25).   It is crucially  important,
therefore, to determine after some time the impact of these changes upon the
sector.  During negotiations,  Government  confirmed  that  it welcomes  IDA's
involvement in a joint review of policy and program implementation in the
sector during 1986 (para. 5.01(a)). This would be focussed primarily on: (i)
pricing mechanisms; (ii) appropriate marketing mechanisms; (iii) increasing
availibility of credit and inputs; (iv) strengthening cooperative and state
farm management, and (v) the role of private enterprises. This review would
provide the basis for further expanding liberalization measures to cover
various parts of the sector. Also, under the project, the pilot farm concept
introduced under the Second Wadi Hadramawt Project, would be given further
extension (para 2.39).
B. Project Area
2.05     The  research  and extension efforts  under  the project will focus
primarily on the three agriculturally prominent Governorates of Abyan, Lahej
and Hadramawt (Map IBRD 18277).  :he three Governorates account for about 70%



- li -
(50,000 ha) of the cropped area in the country and comprise about 40
cooperatives with a total membership of about 35,000 farming families
(corresponding to about 200,000 persons), farming about 902 of the cropped
area of the three Governorates, whereas 20 state farms account for the
remainder of the area. The main crops in the area are wheat, sorghum, fruits
(dates,  citrus,  bananas),   vegetables   (leafy  vegetables,   tomatoes  and
potatoes),  cotton,  tobacco  and  fodder  crops.   As  can be  seen  from  the
following table, average yields are low by most standards (1983).
Average Crop Yields (kg/ha)
Coarse Grains                  850      Sesame                       450
Cotton (seed cotton)           750      Onions                     3,500
Wheat                        1,500      Fodder (green)            15,000
Potatoes                    15,000      Tobacco                      800
Tomatoes                   9,000
2.06     Climate and Soils.  The climate is hot and arid, with mean maximum
temperatures  ranging from 40'C in sumer  to 30eC  in winter, and the mean
minimum varying from 22'C to 12'C respectively.  Pan evaporation is around
3,000 mm per year.  Rain falls in the form of short intense showers with an
erratic distribution, during the months of April, July, August and September,
and averages around 60  X per year.  Relative humidity varies from 641 in
January to 35S in June. Occasional strong dust storms that damage crops are
common during April and May. The soils consist basically of sandy loans with
low humus content and high (30X to 402) calcium carbonate levels. They are
mildly alkaline (pH 7.1 to 7.5). Drainage is not a problem, as soils are
light.
2.07     Within the three Governorates, the agricultural areas are generally
dispersed and separated by considerable distances.   Hence,  the quality and
availability of physical and social infrastructure differ much between the
various areas, with education and health services, water supplies and
transportation infrastructure being generally of a reasonable standard in
areas close to important towns.
C. Brief Description of the Proiect
2.08     The project would comprise the following activities:
Ci)   strengthening and improving the motivation of the Directorate
for Research and Extension (DRE) through internal reorganiza-
tion and provision of technical assistance;
(ii)  strengthening  and  improving  the motivation  of  the research
activities through internal reorganization, reformulation of
research programs, provision of technical assistance as well as
training and funds to properly equip the stations;
(iii) strengthening the existing limited extension services in the
three  agriculturally  most  prominent  governorates   through
provision of technical assistance as well as training and funds
to establish the necessary infrastructure; and
(iv) expanding the existing Communications Unit through provision of
both technical assistance and funds for equipment.



- 12 -
D. Research Component: Detailed Description
Introduction
2.09     Increases in aggregate agricultural output must largely come from
increases in productivity to be brought about by developing new technological
packages that can both be supported by the input supply organizations and
adopted by  the farming comuunity.  Consequently, the research effort, the
extension activities and the supply functions must be coordinated.  As there
is not much difference in production technology between cooperative and state
farms, both categories would benefit directly from the proposed research
activities; private farmers who mostly operate in remote areas are less likely
to derive immediate benefit in view of their limited access to modern inputs.
Research Priorities
2.10     Research priorities should not only reflect general immediate needs,
but also be aligned with the longer-term comparative advantages of agriculture
in PDRY. Immediate needs are to determine efficient fertilization and plant
protection packages, to continue variety testing and, because of high labor
costs, to develop cost-effective mechanization practices. Close collaboration
with the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT) will need
to be established to start an effective wheat improvement program.   Longer
term programs should reflect the diminishing importance of spate-irrigated
farming and present research activities in this area should be curtailed.
Within the well-irrigated areas, crops such as onion, potato, oilseeds, fruits
and vegetables, for which the country has, in principle, a comparative
production advantage, should be at the core of both immediate and long-term
research programs.  Such programs should not only aim at increasing factor
productivity, but also seek to: (i) lengthen production seasons; (ii) reduce
spoilage and harvest losses; and (iii) address consumer preferences.  Finally,
rapidly increasing pumping costs call for the continued testing of cost-
effective  irrigation  application  systems  suitable  under  South  Yemeni
conditions. The detailed research programs proposed are described in Annex 13.
Reorganization of Research Activities
2.11     The project would aim at strengthening agricultural research capacity
in the three main agro-ecological regions of PDRY, namely, the coastal
lowlands (El Kod), the mid-altitude areas of !adramawt (Seiyun) and the
highlands represented by the Lawdar and Mukairas sub-stations. The project
would further attempt, through improved management and organization, to better
coordinate and closely supervise the agricultuzal research programs.  These
would be crop or commodity specific, rather th-n discipline oriented as at
present and would be carried out by multi-discipliuary teams of scientists.
2.12     Research at present is excessively compartmentalized in 12 specific
discipline oriented  sections  at El Kod.  In order to coordinate research
activities and to release competent staff for more productive work than their
present administrative functions (i.e. as heads of sections), the number of
these would be reduced to 5, as indicated below:



- 13 -
Proposed Disciplinary Research Sections
Section                                              Activities
1)    Agronomy                                 cereals, industrial crops, in-
cluding tobacco, food and feed
legumes; crop introduction and
evaluation.
2)    Horticulture                             fruits, vegetables and food
technology.
3)    Plant Protection                         plant pathology, entomology
and weed control.
4)    Farming Systems                          farm management, mechanization
and economics of crop production.
5)    Soils and Irrigation                     standard laboratory analysis and
field work.
2.13     A Service Section at each station would coordinate labor, vehicle and
implement use, and be responsible for all machinery and building maintenance.
A sub-unit of this section would be responsible for research plot preparation
and routine maintenance of the experimental plots at the station.
2.14     The core working format will be the Multi-Disciplinary Research
Teams (MDRTs) of scientists drawn from the various disciplinary sections who
will carry out the research activities on a commodity-oriented basis.  The
rationale behind this reorganization is that (i) research activities would be
more efficiently focussed on priority work, and (ii) related activities would
be better coordinated. Each MDRT would be led by a coordinator (who may or
may not be a station research section leader). He would normally be based at
that station where the main research effort in that field is concentrated, and
in which he would be primarily engaged. Five such team are envisaged:
Proposed Multi-Disciplinary Research Teams
Multi-Disciplinary Research Activity               Crops or Tasks
1.  Horticultural Crops                        Tomato, potato, cucurbits, onion
banana, orange, papaya, stone
fruits.
2.  Cereals                                    Sorghum, millet, maize, wheat.
3.  Industrial Crops                           Cotton, tobacco, sesame.
4.  Food and Feed Legumes                      Groundnut, cowpea, alfalfa,
lablab.
5.  Farming Systems                            Farm management, mechanization,
application of new technology,
crop rotations, multiple crop-
ping.



- 14 -
2.15     The  existing  discipline-oriented  sections  will  support  the above
research-oriented activities through designating one or more members to each
MDRT. Soils and irrigation, and plant protection would be the main supporting
sections.
2.16     Under the proposed reorganization, the individual researcher remains
a member of his discipline-oriented section which provides him with guidance
in his special field from senior specialists and with the equipment and
resources needed for his work. However, his program of work will be determined
by his membership of one or more of the MDRTs. The MDRT concept, which works
well in the Yemen Arab Republic, makes it possible to define and execute well
focussed and coordinated research programs, though the introduction of this
double matrix in PDRY may initially cause some personnel problems in the
reorganization  phase.   During  negotations,  Government  agreed  to  have  the
IDRT's established not later than December 31, 1986. (para. 5.01(b))
Linkage with Extension
2.17     The efficiency with which the transfer of newly-developed technology
is accomplished depends on the existence of an extension system with strong
links to the research establishment. Extension staff would become acquainted
at an early stage with specific research programs through participation in the
selection of sites for verification trials and in the monitoring and
evaluation of  these.   Likewise. researchers should participate actively  in
training the extension staff at the Giar Agricultural Training Center.
2.18     For this purpose, the El Kod and Seiyun Research stations would each
appoint a research/extension coordinator.   Their primary task would be  to
organize monthly workshops for research staff and extension personnel, particu-
larly for the Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs).  These workshops would (i)
help research staff train the SMSs, and (ii) serve as a forum for extension
personnel to refer pertinent field problems back to the research staff and so
assist in determining the research program (paras 2.34 and 2.36). Furthermore,
the coordinators would collect information from the leaders of the MDRTs and
make it available to the CU for distribution to the extension staff.  They
would also be members of the Governorate Agricultural Research and Extension
Committee (para. 2.37).
Linkage with International Agricultural Centers
2.19     It is important that communications with the international agricul-
tural centers be expanded to ensure receiving new crop introductions and to
liaise with them regarding the training needs of the research scientists and
technicians. Funds have been provided under the project for such visits, and
for expanded library services  (para.  2.24).   The international centers and
institutions with which this project will most likely be associated are: (i)
the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT) for procuring
varieties of wheat and maize; (ii) the International Center for Agricultural
Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA) for food and feed legumes; (iii) the
International Crop Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) for
sorghum and millet; (iv) the Asian Vegetable Research Development Center
(AVRDC) for vegetables; (v) the Arab Center for Studies of Arid Zones and Dry
Lands (ACSAD) for training in soil laboratory techniques and range management,
and (vi) the Arab Organization for Agricultural Development (AOAD) for
securing technical staff for fruit and vegetable development.



- 15-
Civil Works
2.20     In order to reduce time presently lost by staff in commuting between
Aden and El Kod (100 km), the project envisages construction of an 18-bedroom
prefabricated boarding house for staff at El Kod Research Station with a sur-
face area of 223 sq. m., as well as provision for basic furniture. Similarly,
the present housing facilities at Lawdar substation would be renovated. A
6-bedroom hostel for researchers and visiting scientists would be constructed.
Furthermore, a water tank would be installed at El Kod to ensure constant
water  supply  to  the  laboratories.   Electricity  supply  would  be  improved
through  provision  of  stabilizers  to maintain  constant  current  flow.   To
facilitate experiments in plant protection and horticulture, and for con-
ducting specific agronomic studies, the project envisages building of two
greenhouses, one each at El Kod (60 sq. m.) and Seiyun (40 sq. m.).
Vehicles and Equipment
2.21     To increase the mobility of the research staff, a number of vehicles
would be added to the present pool, and spare parts would be provided in order
to raise present maintenance levels. Nine 4-WD vehicles, three trucks, three
pickups, two buses and five motorcycles would be provided and allocated to the
various stations. The project would also provide farm equipment and imple-
ments, including additional requirements of the farming systems research com-
ponent which will be integrated with the existing research stations. Research
capacity at both El Kod and Seiyun would be expanded through provision of
needed  instruments  and  chemicals  to  existing  laboratories.   Furthermore,
nursery equipment, sprayers, and greenhouse furnishings would be provided.
Additional office equipment would facilitate production of reports and
documentation of research results.
Techn cal Assistance
2.22     A  Senior Research Advisor  (SRA),  internationally recruited for 42
man-months, would be assigned to the project as Co-Manager to the Director
General of Research and Extension (para. 3.02). He would be stationed at
El-Kod Research Station, and would also be team leader of the three other
internationally recruited consultants provided under the project. Their terms
of reference are in Annex 4.
Training
2.23     The  capabilities  of  Yemeni  research  workers  would  be  further
increased through provision of short-term training in specific subjects of
relevance to the ongoing research programs. A proposed training schedule is
in Annex 5.
Library and Documentation
2.24     The main research library would be at El Kod, where a rather large
new building already exists and which is essentially furnished.  Funds would
be made available to purchase the necessary reference books, periodicals and
abstracts. Similarly, though on a smaller scale, a library would be set up at
Seiyun. Cooperation would have to be established between El Kod and Seiyun
for exchange of abstracts and periodicals to complement individual station



- 16 -
needs. All locally published results and periodical reports would be docu-
mented and catalogued. Provision has been made in the project to train at
least two librarians in library documentation.
E. Extension Component: Detailed Description
Introduction
2.25     The extension system under the project would seek to carry to its
logical development the reform introduced under the Government order of 1980
(para. 1.16).  A basis for the proposed program is already available in the
modest extension service provided for Abyan Governorate through the El Kod
research station and the Giar Agricultural Training Center, and for Lahej and
Hadramawt Governorates through the IDA-assisted projects.   Exclusion of the
other areas with limited agricultural potential reduces costs significantly,
while only marginally reducing coverage and avoiding the danger of stretching
the limited resources too thinly. The project would not cover farmers outside
the cooperatives as they are generally dispersed in remote areas without access
to input services, but would focus on the cooperatives and their members, which
account for about 60% of production and of cultivated area. Subject matter
specialist teams of the extension service would also assist the state farms
which account for about 20% of national production. The continuous evaluation
of the extension impact and its cost-effectiveness would be essential to ensure
allocation of resources towards meaningful activities.
2.26     The stagnation of agricultural production in recent years is partly
due to failure of the current extension system (mainly based on over-sized
demonstration plots and communications  through mass media).   Consequently,
only the presently available extension packages for wheat, tomato and potato
are being adopted, but virtually none of the others (Annex 6). Initially, the
extension service would use these available packages as appropriate; new ones
would be included as they become available. The project would seek to modify
and strengthen the field-oriented extension approach. initiated under the
Government order of 1980 and the IDA-assisted projects, through:
i)    location of Field Extension Agents (FEAs) within villages in all
areas covered by cooperatives in the Lahej and Hadramawt Governo-
rates and not covered under the earlier IDA projects, and
introduction of similar arrangements in all cooperatives in the
Abyan Governorate; they would be supervised by Agricultural
Extension Supervisors (AESs);
(ii)    provision  of  teams  of SMSs within the extension service and
based in each governorate to provide technology support to the
field extension service;
(iii)    establishment of monthly workshops to ensure proper training of
extension personnel, as well as their participation in deter-
mining the research programs, and
(iv)    strengthening the operation of state farms by: (a) advice from
the SMSs teams on specific technical subjects, and (b) organizing
regular in-depth training of their staff in the Giar Agricultural
Training Center.



- 17 -
2.27     The system summarized above would seek to ensure systematic step-by-
step transfer of technology generated at the research stations, from the
research scientists to the SMSs of the extension service through monthly work-
shops, from the SMSs to the FEAs/AESs through weekly training sessions, and
from the FEAs to the cooperative farmers through regular fixed weekly visits.
The SMSs would directly advise the state farms. The system would provide for
intensive supervision of FEAs' work in the field, along with frequent meetings
with them during the weekly training sessions, which would constitute implicit
mechanisms for informal monitoring and evaluation of the program. The activi-
ties of the CU would have to be closely integrated with the field extension
activities to ensure synchronisation of the "message of the moment".
2.28     Organization.  The proposed extension system would be field-oriented
and planned from the villages up.  An FEA would be provided for the area
covered by each cooperative in the three Governorates of Lahej, Abyan and
Hadramawt.  It would be an essential requirement for success of the program
that the FEAs should live within the villages, and preferably be drawn from
the  local  area.   A  group  of 6 to 8 FEAs would be supervised by an AES
depending on the distances and terrain.
2.29     One FEA is proposed for each group of about 400 farmers under spate
irrigation and about 200 farmers under the more intensive well-irrigated
farming. These farmers would be organized into four sub-groups of 100 or 50
farmers, respectively, and the FEA would be assigned a fixed program of visits
to each sub-group through four fixed days, once every week. A weekly visit by
the FEA to each sub-group of farmers would be necessary, particularly in the
initial stages to ensure that the farmers become accustomed to the FEA's
weekly visit day. The schedule could be reviewed and revised after the system
has taken root. The remaining two days of the FEA's working week would be
used  for  office  work and  his  own  training  (para.  2.36).   The latter is
particularly important in the early stages as it must provide him with the
necessary technical knowledge for his program of work for the forthcoming week.
2.30     As 100 or 50 cooperative farmers in the sub-groups would, be too
large a number for the FEA to effectively reach directly in a day, about 8 to
10 representative farmers from each sub-group should be nominated by the
cooperative council, with whom the FEA should regularly work on one of the
four days in the week.   Great care should be taken in selection of such
contact farmers who would also constitute the focal point in farmers'
listening/discussion groups.   They have to be respected by their community,
socially as well as professionally, and should represent existing sub-groups
of farmers in the cooperatives and preferably be able to read and write.
2.31     A prerequisite for successful implementation of this extension manage-
ment system would be that the FEAs be free to devote themselves exclusively to
extension work as a full-time activity, and not diverted to extraneous activi-
ties such as input distribution and tax collection, which should continue to
be handled by the cooperatives.  The general duties and responsibilities of
FEA are described in Annex 7. At negotiations Government gave assurances that
the FEAs would work exclusively for the extension service (para. 5.01(c)).
2.32     Each group of six to eight FEAs would be supervised by an AES.  The
general responsibilities of the AES are described in Annex 7.  One of his
tasks would be to participate in the cooperative management and to assist the
managers in preparing the annual plan of production, in estimating the inputs



-18 -
required for its implementation and to report these directly to his Deputy
Head for Field Extension. This task would be vitally important as it would be
the most direct way to overcome the cooperatives' present weakness in making
rational production plans. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
each cooperative in the three Governorates would appoint an AES as an advisor
to its executive council, not later than December 31, 1986 (para. 5.01(d)).
2.33     Extension services at the field level would be supervised,  techni-
cally guided, and generally supported by an extension section in the Governo-
rate for which the Director of Agriculture in the Governorate would be adminis-
tratively responsible (Chart). The following staff would comprise the exten-
sion section at the Governorate level: (i) Head of Extension; (ii) Deputy Head
for Field Extension; (iii) Deputy Head for Information and Training; and (iv)
Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs). A summary description of their tasks is in
Annex 8.
2.34     Linkage with Research.  Whereas the requirements of the first three
categories of extension staff could be largely met through deployment of
existing staff, the SMSs in the PDRY situation would, by and large, be
agricultural graduates without much experience and who would need to be
backstopped, to the extent possible, through regular exposure to the staff of
the  research  stations.   Early  arrangements  should be made  to  train  the
necessary staff at the Giar Agricultural Training Center or abroad, and at
least some SMSs would become available following the restructuring of the
research staff.  It will be necessary to formalize the SMSs' sessions with the
research scientists through the forum of monthly workshops to be held on fixed
dates of each month.   These monthly workshops would have to be  developed
gradually into effective fora for systematic linkage of research stations with
the extension service to ensure (i) continuous training of extension personnel,
and (ii) participation of the extension service in determining the research
program. The research/extension coordinators (para 2.18) would ensure involve-
ment in the monthly workshops of all concerned research scientists and would
report all pertinent field problems to their Director.
2.35     Work Programming.  The work of FEAs would be an integral part of the
annual program of extension work with explicitly stated objectives, and with a
detailed plan of work which would include specific problems to be addressed,
activities proposed, such as number of demonstration plots planned and metho-
dology to be used, as well as an enumeration of planned group activities, and
short training courses for farmers. From this annual plan of work, the monthly
program would be derived and patterned along the principles described in paras
2.28-2.30 The AESs would compile these programs of the FEAs in their area,
and add to them their own activities of inspection, monitoring and assistance
to cooperatives. These area programs and those of the SMSs would be forwarded
to the Governorate's headquarters where they would be compiled to constitute
the Governorate's annual extension program.
2.36     In-service  Training.   This  would  be  a  continuous  and  organized
process and would involve the following:
-i)    weekly training of FEAs and AESs by the SMSs in the Governorate
Unit;
(ii)    at least initially,  there would be monthly training workshops
for SMSs in El Kod and Seiyun in which they will be advised
about research findings in their field.  After the first year,



- 19 -
these monthly workshops could be gradually developed into less
frequent but effective forums for the systematic linkage of
research stations with the extension staff (para. 2.34), and
Mii)    field extension staff including FEAs, AESs and SMSs will parti-
cipate in off-season, well-tailored, short-term (2-3 weeks)
training courses at the Giar Agricultural Training Center.
ARricultural Research and Extension Coordination
2.37     To  ensure  coordination of  efforts  at  the Governorate  level,  the
existing consultative group meetings would be used, chaired by the Director of
Agriculture in the Governorate.
Input Coordination
2.38     Agricultural  extension which helps spread improved technology among
farmers, will be successful only if all other supporting services, such as
provision of physical inputs, are made available in response to the require-
ments generated by extension,  at  the  time and  place of need.   Effective
coordination  with  the  agencies  concerned  with  all  the  inputs  and other
supporting facilities, such as PASC, MRS, ?BY,  PCMFV  and Regional  Cotton
Boards,  would  therefore  be  essential  for  the  success  of  the  extension
program. This should be pursued along the following lines:
gi)    the AESs would  assist  the cooperatives  in determining  their
input requirements and report these to the Deputy Head for Field
Extension who would aggregate and forward these requirements to
the next echelon (para. 2.32);
(ii)    local  representatives  of  the  various  input/support  services
agencies  should  be  invited  to attend  those  weekly  training
sessions  for  the  FEAs at which  input and support services'
problems will be discussed;
Ciii)    the problems raised by the FEAs and AESs should be followed up
by the SMSs with the concerned agencies and, in particular, by
the Head of Extension and the Deputy Head of Field Extension in
the Governorate extension units, and
(iv)    the problems that cannot be resolved under these arrangements
should be followed up by the Head of Extension/Deputy Head of
Field Extension through the Agricultural Research and Extension
Committee in the Governorate (para 2.37).
Reform Measures
2.39     In order to test their applicability on a wider scale, the project
would call for an extension of selected reform measures introduced untder the
Second Wadi Hadramawt project (Cr. 1346-YDR) (para. 1.25). Government would
establish, in selected cooperatives in the Abyan and Lahej Governnates, eight
producer groups  on  the basis  of  irrigation  criteria.   The project would
provide farm machinery for six of these, whereas the remainder would receive
transferred equipment from MAAR's stock. During negotiations, assurances were



- 20 -
obtained that Government would establish such farmers' groups in selected
cooperatives at a date not later than December 31, 1986 (para. 5.01(e)).  In
addition, Government confirmed during negotiations, to extend the provision of
long-term usufruct rights to all three governorates comprising the project
area.
Staff Housing
2.40     Success of the proposed extension program would, to a large extent,
depend on the intensity of contacts which the FEAs can establish with their
groups of farmers.  To ensure this, it is essential that both the FEAs and
AESs  live  within their areas of operation.   Generally,  this will be made
possible by recruiting extension personnel from the villages themselves;
otherwise local accommodation could be rented. Housing FEAs and AF.Ss in vil-
lages in remote areas, however, may not be possible. Therefore, it is proposed
to construct about 20 houses in those areas where rented accommodation is not
available. Houses would be constructed with readily available material, would
accommodate a small family or a single person (60 sq.m.) and serve also as an
office.
Vehicles
2.41     The extension program would  require  intensive  supervision  at all
levels and adequate means of transportation would be provided to ensure this.
A saloon car and two 4WD station wagons would be provided at central headquar-
ters and, on average, two 4WD station wagons at each governorate headquar-
ters i1.  Motorcycles would be provided for all FEAs and AESs.  After taking
into account the vehicles already available in Hadramawt and in Lahej, the net
additional requirement would be about 115 motorcycles.
Equipment
2.42     The project would provide for strengthening the CU at central head-
quarters, particularly through the construction of a small television and
radio studio. The extension sections in each Governorate would be provided
with sets of assorted audio-visual equipment.  They would also be provided
with funds for the purchase of suitable equipment sets to assist the FEAs in
demonstrating improved technology. Funds would be made available for purchase
of farm machinery to be used by the pilot farmers groups (para. 2.39).
Technical Assistance
2.43     An  Extension  Advisor  with  experience  in  the  proposed  type  of
extension system would be provided for 18 months, as well as a Communications
Advisor for 12 months who would set up and operate the TV and radio equipment,
to train the staff in the production of rural TV and radio programs and of
printed materials. Their draft terms of reference are in Annex 4.
11 These numbers are incremental to transportation provided under ongoing
IDA-projects.



- 21 -
Overseas Training and Fellowships
2.44    Funds would be provided for overseas training of key personnel from
the extension units in the governorates. The three Reads of Extension in the
governorates, the three teams of SMSs and selected lower-level personnel would
be given the necessary training (details are in Annex 5).
Incremental Extension Staff
2.45    Incremental staff requirements, after taking into account the staff
already available, are brought  out  in Annex  9.  The bulk of  the net
incremental requirement will be confined to the Abyan Governorate, while the
requirement for the other governorates will be small. A phased start of the
program is proposed for the Hadramawt and Lahej Governorates in the first
year, which would ensure full advantage from the experience gained in the
extension program under the Wadi Hadramawt and Wadi Tuban projects.  This
could be achieved by redeployment of existing staff. Most SMSs' requirements
in these governorates would be met from existing staff at the El Kod and
Seiyun research stations following their proposed reorganization. Coverage of
the Abyan Governorate would require hiring of additional  staff.   It is
proposed to commence implementation in the Abyan Governorate in the second
year and to expand activities as newly trained staff becomes available.
F. Cost Estimates and Financing
2.46    Cost Estimates.  The estimated cost of the Project, including physical
and price contingencies adjusted to December 1984 levels, is YD 2.4 million
(US$7.0 million equivalent). The foreign exchange component is estimated to
be YD 1.7 million (US$5.0 million) or 72% of Project costs. The costs of
imported equipment and materials reflect international market prices. Goods
and services procured under IDA-assisted projects in PDRY are exempt from
import taxes and duties.  Estimates for the hiring of internationally recruited
advisors reflect the cost of recent contracts for similar assignments elsewhere
in the region. Quantities for costing of civil works have been evaluated on
the basis of semi-detailed or detailed designs prepared by Government and have
been reviewed.  Physical contingencies vary from 5% to 15% depending on the
nature of the civil works, equipment or services. Annual rates for calculating
price contingencies for local costs are 7% for 1985 and following years and
for foreign costs 8.0%, 9.0%, 7.5% and 6.0%, respectively for the years 1985
through 1988 and constant thereafter.  Total  contingencies,  physical and
price, are 23% of base cost. Project costs are sunxnarized in Table 2.1, while
detailed costs and a breakdown by summary accounts, by year and by component
are provided in Annexes 1 and 2.
Table 2.1
PEOPLES DEROCRATTC DEPUettC OF YEMEN
AGRICUtTURE RESEARCEH AND EXTENSION
PROJECT CtSI SUMXRY
t7o  00001   fuss             1 Total
---- --- --- ---- --- --- --- ---- --- --- --    Foreign  BaSe
Local Foreign Total  local   foreign Total  Exchergn  CostS
SUPPORT EIREC7ORATE
RESEARCH S EXTEENSION  29 2    20 7    49 9  85.2  50. 2   145. 4  41  3
RESEARCt  IEI KOO. SEIYUN. LAIRI  120. 8    456. 9    577 6  352.   1. 332. 0 t. 684. X  79  30
EXTENSION SERVICE     393- 1   348 8   741 9  t. 146.2 7    O 6. 8 2. 163 0  47  38
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE    -   317 3   317.3  -   925 .2   925 2  tO  I6
IRAINING                -   255.4 ' 55 '  -   144 .    744 6  100  13
_- -   -- - -   - - - -  -- - -   - - - -   - - - -  ----- - ---_ _    _ _     _ - -_ 
total SASELINE COSTS    543.1 1.399 0  t 947. 2   1. 58;- 4 4.078. 8 S. 662 3  72  100
Physical Conhinge"bcii  40 5    t1'.4   t1s 9  118.0   374 e   412 8  73  8
Prtce Coat ingernces   90.3   213.4   303 7  263.3   622. 1   885.4  70  IS
Total PROJECt COSIS     673.9 1. 723. 9 2.3978  1 2964.'  5. 025.8  6.990 6  77  123



- 22 -
2.47     Financing.   The proposed  IDA credit of US$5.0 million equivalent
would be on standard IDA terms and would finance all of the foreign exchange
cost, except for those included in incremental operating cost to be financed
by the Borrower, and the equivalent of about US$ 0.5 million of local cost of
civil works and of equipment and vehicles. The IDA credit would finance 72S
of the total cost of the project. The People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
as the Borrower would contribute the balance (US$2.0 million equivalent or 282
of the total project cost.) Based on the above, the project's financing plan
is summmarized below:
Table 2.2   Financing Plan
Total as Z of
Source                           Local     Foreign    Total         Proiect Cost
(USS million)--               (X)
IDA Credit                         -         5.0       5.0              72
Government                        2.0         -         2.0             28
Total                         2.0         5.0       7.0             100
G. Procurement
2.48     Civil  Wrrks.   Project  civil works  (US$1.2 million)  will  consist
mainly of housing for extension officers scattered throughout three governo-
rates and the erection of a boarding house in El Kod and greenhouses in El Kod
and Seiyun. These works are unlikely to be of interest to foreign bidders and
contracts will be awarded by Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures in
accordance with practices of Government acceptable to IDA.  Suitable local
construction firms exist in sufficient numbers to ensure adequate competition.
2.49     Vehicles, Equipment and Supplies.  To benefit from standardization,
the modest numbers of IDA-financed vehicles, farm machinery and motorcycles
(about US$1.0 million equivalent) will be procured through Limited Inter-
national Tendering (LIT).  Other equipment and supplies worth about US$0.7
million will be grouped, to the extent feasible, in packages of US$50,300
equivalent or more in order to increase competition in bidding. These will be
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance
with the Bank's procurement guidelines. Small items worth less than US$10,000,
which cannot be grouped into packages of US$50,000 or more and which are gener-
ally locally available, will be awarded by Local Competitive Bidding (LCB).
These will amount to about US$0.3 million in the aggregate.
2.50     Technical  Assistance  and  Training.   Total  estimated  technical
assistance cost of 90 man-months is US$1.1 million. All consultants would be
hired in accordance with the IDA's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. In
addition, the project would finance about 380 man/months of training outside
PDRY, at a total estimated cost of about US$0.9 million.  Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that hiring of consultants would be in accordance
with IDA guidelines.



- 23 -
2.51     The project's procurement arrangements have been sufimarized below.
Table 2.3     Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million) /1
Procurement
Proiect Element                              Method
ICB       LCB      LIT          N.A.         Totals
Civil Works                  -         1.0       -                          1.0
Vehicles/Equipment/Supplies 0.7        0.3       1.0          -              2.0
Technical Assistance         -         -         -            1.1            1.1
Training                     -         -         -            0.9           0.9
Total                     0.7       1.3       1.0         2.0            5.0
/1 Differences due to rounding
2.52     Contract Review.  About 75 bidding packages and contracts are expected
for project procurement of goods and civil works (US$2.8 million). Most of
these will be for equipment and will be below $100,000 in size because of the
multitude of equipment items.  Most of the procurement will be handled by
agencies which have implemented other IDA-assisted projects such as ETC and
PASC and which are familiar with Bank procurement procedures. Hence, there is
little risk of misprocurement and a prior review threshold of US$50,000 will
be used.  The threshold will result in prior review of about 5Z of the bidding
packages comprising about 20X of the credit amount. The documentation of the
remaining items will be kept for inspection by IDA supervision missions.
H. Disbursement
2.53     Disbursement of the proposed IDA credit of US$5.0 million will extend
over six years starting July 1985 and will be made as follows: /1
(a)    85S of all expenditures on civil works;
(b)    100% of foreign expenditures, and 85S of local expenditures,
on equipment, vehicles and supplies:
(c)    100X of consultancy cost; and
(d)    1001 of overseas training cost.
IDA would not finance incremental operating costs ( para 2.47). Disbursements
will be  made  against normal  documentation.   A  revolving  fund  of  about
US$400,000, corresponding to an average of four months of expenditure of the
credit, would be established by opening a special account. Such a fund would
avoid tying up foreign exchange resources for eligible disbursements while the
latter are being processed by IDA. The special account will be maintained
with the National Bank of Yemen (NBY) for disbursements against Categories 1
through 4 of Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement, in accordance
with  IDA  procedures.   All  supporting  documentation  for  small  purchases
(US$10,000 or less) would be retained by the Borrower and should be available
for review by IDA supervision missions. During negotiations Government gave
assurances  to  this  effect.   The  estimated  annual  disbursements  by  IDA
financial years are as follows (details in Annex 3):
/1 Exclusive of all import duties and taxes.



- 24 -
Table 2.4 Estimated Disbursements
FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91
-US$ millio l
Annual:
IDA                 0.5     0.8      1.0     1.2     1.0      0.5
Government          0.2      0.3     0.4     0.5      0.3     0.3
Cumulative:
IDA                 0.5      1.3     2.3     3.5     4.5      5.0
Government          0.2      0.5     0.9     1.4      1.7     2.0
The Project Completion and IDA Credit Closing Dates will be June 30, and
December 31, 1990, respectively.
2.54     This is the first project of its nature in PDRY, and there is no
disbursement profile available for similar projects in the Region. Therefore.
the disbursement profile for the Project was compared with other IDA credits
for agriculture in EMENA and with groups of IDA credits for agriculture in all
regions, as shown below:
Year from Date
of Approval when
Region/Sector               No. of Projects        50Z was disbursed
EMENA Region (IDA)
- agriculture                    51               first half 5th year
- irrigation                     17               first half 5th year
All Regions (IDA)
- agriculture                   512               first half 5th year
- agric. credit                  46               first half 4th year
- research and extension         14               first half 4th year
Under the project, about 50X of the IDA credit is estimated to be disbursed by
the first half of the 4th year after Board approval and which is in line with
disbursement under similar projects elsewhere. About 25X of the credit will
meet consultancy costs, which are estimated to be incurred within the first
three years. About 202 of the proceeds are for overseas training, most of
which is expected to take place in the first three years of the project. The
balance of the credit will go to meet the full foreign exchange cost and part
of the local cost of the equipment and civil works to be financed under the
project. The equipment, virtually all required for the research stations and
extension service, is expected to purchased mostly in the first two years of
the project. The civil works are few and of a simple nature, mostly standard
housing for extension personnel, and are expected to be completed within three
years after Board approval. The proposed disbursement schedule is, therefore,
considered realistic.



- 25 -
I. Environmental Impact
2.55     If successful, the project vill undoubtedly lead to increased use of
agro-chemicals, e.g., pesticides, insecticides, weed-killers, the use of which
is presently extremely limited. Because people and animals often drink from
irrigation canals, the research centers are expected identify, to the extent
possible, pesticides which are both effective and safe, without resorting to
the use of highly toxic, persistent or biocumulative chemicals.
J. Role of Women
2.56     Because  of  large-scale  out-migration  of  adult males,  women  now
constitute the majority of the family labor force in agriculture (reliable
statistics are not available). Despite their importance in the sector, women
are disadvantaged. Wages for women in agriculture are typically between one-
third and one-half of those of male labor, though female wages are reported to
have risen faster in recent years than those of male laborers. In spite of
these demographic and economic changes, the involvement of women in the
decision-making process concerniug the family holding is very limited, as is
their position in the management of agricultural enterprises. This is not to
deny that certain activities are traditionally regarded as belonging in the
woman's sphere, e.g., taking care of small animals and gathering crops such as
vegetables.  It is recognized by MAAR in general, and the extension services
in particular, that the extension activities and methods must reflect the
importance of women in rural society. Perhaps the most important constraint
here is the near impossibility of attracting rural women to work in the field
extension service, while on the other hand employment of urban women in the
countryside has proven  to be virtually  unacceptable.   The  project would
continue to endeavor to train rural women for the extension service and would
closely watch the activities of other ongoing projects aimed at benefiting
rural women, but it should be evident that this, as all structural change, is
a long process.  In the medium term, therefore, the project would primarily
couvey extension messages destined for rural women through special radio and
television programs and include women in the extension service as trained
personnel become available.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
3.01     General.  The proposed Implementation Schedule is in Chart World Bank
- 26254.   A  central  objective of  the project  is to establish  new,  and
strengthen existing, organization structures in research and extension, and to
ensure close collaboration between the two activities at all levels.  The
existing Department for Research and Extension (DRE) fortunately integrates
the two components at the highest level.  Presently, DRE employs only two
professional staff at Headquarters in Aden. Under the project this staff will
be expanded by the appointment of a Deputy Director of Extension and Training
and support staff for accounting and secretarial work. The Director of DRE
would be Project Manager.
3.02     One Senior Research Adviser (SRA), who would also be Co-Manager to
the Director of DRE, and three additional expatriate Advisors for Extension,
Communications and Agricultural Economics, would provide further managerial
and professional support (see Annex 4 for their draft Terms of Reference).
The extension field service will be expanded gradually over the years.  For



- 26 -
research, the internal reorganization of existing structures will be much more
substantial than increase in numbers.   The integration of the two project
components at the field level is ensured by the existing practice of placing
the Heads of both research anid of extension in the governorates directly under
the Director of Agriculture in the governorate.
3.03     Research.   The Directors of the research stations  in  El Kod and
Seiyun would be responsible for the management of their respective stations.
In the execution of this task, they would be assisted by the Senior Research
Advisor (para 3.02).
3.04     The project would call, in both components, for the appointment of
competent national staff in key positions, i.e. a Deputy Director for
Extension and Training in DRE, a Director of the El Kod institute as well as
Heads of Extension in the Governorates of Lahej and Abyan. All other senior
staff is already in place. Appointments to these key positions would be made
in consultation with IDA, and would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(para. 5.02(a)).
3.05     Extension.  Responsibility for all extension activities and training
of extension workers would be delegated by the Director of DRE to his Deputy
Director for Extension and Training.  The latter would also be  responsible to
ensure close  collaboration with  the existing Communications  Unit  (CU)  in
MAAR.  In the execution of these tasks he would be assisted by two expatriate
Advisors, one for Extension and one for Communica' :ons.   The responsibility
for daily operation of the Ciar Agricultural Training Center would be entirely
delegated by DRE to the Director of that Center. The proposed structure of
the field extension service has been described in paras 2.28-2.34. During
negotiations  assurances  were  given  by  Government  that  the   existing
project-based extension activities now carried out throughout the country
under various projects, would be integrated under the DRE, not later than
December 31, 1985.
3.06     Agricultural  Research and Extension  Council  (AREC).   This council
would comprise DRE senior staff (Headquarters and field) and the Directors of
other  departments  of  MAAR  which supervise  cooperatives  and  state  farms,
together with representatives of the agencies supplying input or marketing
services  to  the farming community.  It would be chaired by MAAR's Deputy
Minister of Planning and Production and the Director for Research and Exten-
sion would be its permanent secretary. AREC would: (i) advise on policies and
priorities regarding research and extension along lines as set out in para.
2.09; (ii) review and approve all research and extension programs as well as
the annual budget; (iii) approve the appointments to the MDRTs for commodity-
oriented research programs and to key extension positions; (iv) review semi-
annual progress reports (para. 3.13); and (v) approve the nomination of candi-
dates for overseas training.   AREC would meet not less than twice a year.
During negotiations assurances were given that Government would establish AREC
not later than December 31, 1985.
3.07     Agricultural  Research  and  Extension Committee   In order  to help
implementing and coordinating the directives given by the Agricultural
Research and Extension Council, Government agreed to set up an Agricultural
Research and Extension Committee. It would be headed by the Director of DRE
and its membership would include DRE's deputy directors, the Directors of the
El Kod and Seiyun Research Institutes, one senior representative of the Nasr



- 27 -
Agricultural College and the heads of the extension services in the Governates
of Lahej, Abyan and Hadramawt.   Members of the inter-disciplinary research
team would be invited as necessary. Government has agreed that the committee
would be established by December 31, 1985.
B   Internationally Recruited Staff
3.08     The  project would  appoint an  internationally  recruited  firm  or
organization,  acceptable  to  IDA,  to  provide  the  international  staff,
administer the overseas training programs, and purchase specialized equipment.
It would provide about 90 man-months of internationally-recruited staff to
assist in the strengthening of DRE.  In addition to assisting in management
and on-the-job training, they would help in selecting local staff for training
abroad and in promoting association with various international research
centers. The international staff required, their disciplines and draft Terms
of Reference are shown in Annex 4. During negotiations Government approved
these draft Terms of Reference. Government's signature of a contract with an
internationally recruited firm or organization as described above, is a condi-
tion of credit effectiveness (para. 5.02(b)). Given the comparatively short
duration of the project, the early appointment of the Senior Research Advisor
(SRA) is essential.   Government has  requested  IDA  for  the  provision  of
US$100,000 in PPF funds to ensure his early appointment in spring 1985; this
has been approved by IDA. His appointment would also be a condition of credit
effectiveness, (para. 5.02(c)).
C. Training
3.09     The  project would  contain  a  substantial  fellowship  program  for
overseas  training.   This  program  would  also  be  administered  by  the
internationally  recruited  firm  or organization.   Each Yemeni  receiving a
fellowship would agree in writing to work for DRE for a period at least twice
the  time  spent abroad.   Such arrangements  are already  in place and  are
generally adhered to.  At negotiations Government gave assurances  to  this
effect.   Specific fellowships by disciplines,  timing and possible location
have been identified and are shown in Annex 5. During negotiations Government
approved  the  proposed  training  program.   The  Director  for  Research  and
Extension, in consultation with the Co-Manager, would nominate candidates for
training abroad, submit their names to AREC for approval and IDA would review
such nominations.   Training under bilateral arrangements would, of  course,
continue. During negotiations Government gave assurances that candidates for
such non-project funded training would be nominated and approved in similar
fashion as for project-financed training, except that IDA would not be
involved in the review of such nominations.  Candidates  for the extension
training course in Giar would be selected from holders of the secondary school
certificate,  preferably  by  che  Heads  of  the  extension  units  in  the
governorates.
D. Civil Works
3.10     The  civil works  component of  the project  would  consist  of:  (i)
housing for extension agents; (ii) a boarding house in El Kod; and (iii)
greenhouses in El Kod and Seiyun. Detailed designs for the first two items
have already been prepared. As in the past, MAAR would enter into an arrange-



- 28 -
ment with the Ministry of Construction (MOC), which would be responsible for
further stages of design, for contract administration and supervision of the
works.  These simple works would be  executed by  local  contractors  (para.
2.48).
3.11     Experimental farm, Seivun.  Because the existing experimental farm is
too far away from the research center for experiments requiring daily atten-
tion, a new closer site will be developed at Tarbah, and suitable arrangements
need to be worked out for the site to be properly developed and equipped under
the Second Wadi Hadramawt Development Project (Cr. 1346-YDR).
E. Incremental Staff and Operating Costs
3.12     Because existing staff resources are considerable and some redeploy-
ment would be called for, incremental staff requirements are modest (about 50
agricultural  technicians).   These  would be  recruited,  in accordance  with
Government procedures, as newly trained personnel becomes available (para.
2.45).  Incremental operating costs over the project period would amount to
about  YD600,000  (US$1.8  million).   During  negotiations  assurances  were
obtained that Government would continue to finance ongoing recurrent costs for
research and extension as well as include the incremental operating costs of
the project in its future annual budget allocations (para. 5.01(f)).  It is
estimated that this will be about YD200,000/year above the present level (1984
prices).
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring
3.13     The overall periodic monitoring of the research and extension compo-
nents of this project is vital as it would provide a basis for change in
emphasis in annual programs. It is equally important that such activities be
not limited to the technical aspects but include the economic impact as well,
in order to enhance their cost effectiveness.  For this purpose, the project
would provide for an Agricultural Economics Advisor (para. 3.02) to assist his
counterparts  in  undertaking  the  required  analyses.   These  would  include
measurement of efficiency of the various research and extension tasks and the
economics of crop production. (Annex 4). Determining the efficiency of the
research  component would call  for annual  evaluation  (para  3.15).   Impact
analysis of the extension component would call for the establishment of base
lines and monitoring, on a current basis, of specific indicators: e.g. number
of farmers reached, adoption rates for extension packages, increased use of
inputs, yield increases and identification of factors constraining the
adoption of improved practices.   The monitoring activity would have to be
complemented by means of regular spot-checks carried out by DRE. At the farm
management level the Agricultural Economic Advisor would, in close collabora-
tion with the extension service, monitor the price incentive structure through
crop-budget studies.   Regional Directors  would  submit  semi-annual  progress
reports to the Director of DRE with copies forwarded to the AREC.   The DRE
would produce an annual report as well as semi-annual statements of research
and extension plans that would include revisions of research and extension
objectives, monitoring results and proposals for redirecting or initiating
research and extension programs.  These annual reports would be forwarded to
IDA for review not later than September 30 of each year, and semi-annual
statements not later than March 31 and September 30 of each year. Assurances
to that effect were obtained at negotiations.



- 29 -
Evaluation
3.14     An  annual  review  and  evaluation  of  all  research  and  extension
activities funded under the project would be commissioned by MAAR and
conducted by an internationally recruited team of two scientists during the
course of the project. About eight man-months of international consultancy
services are provided under the project for this purpose.   The review team
would:
(a) assess the organizational aspects of DRE;
(b)  review the operation of the DRE's system for monitoring research
and extension;
(c)  determine  the  relevance  of  the  research  undertaken  with
reference to the priorities established by AREC;
(d) assess the quality of the research conducted and of the research
workers employed under the project;
(e) assess the impact of extension in the field; and
(f) assess the extent to which both research and extension activities
have reflected the position of women in rural society.
The consultants would produce reports that would include recommendations for
changes in program design if any are needed in further implementation, and
identify possible components to be included in a program of future expansion.
The first report would be made available to IDA by September 30, 1986, for
cohments and Government would consult wita IDA on findings and recommendations
prior to adopting any changes or recommendations. At negotiations an assurance
to this effect was obtained (para. 5.01(g)).
3.15     The DRE would prepare a project completion report and submit it to
IDA within six months of the credit closing date. An assurance to this effect
was obtained during negotiations.
G. Accounts and Audit
3.16     DRE will maintain separate accounts of all Project-related expendi-
tures. These accounts will be audited by the Central Organization for Control
and Audit (COCA) thereto assigned by law, within six months of the end of each
financial year. COCA now has the capability of performing its tasks. However,
problems continue to arise from the fact that project entities do not always
submit in time the necessary documentation to COCA.   A qualified financial
officer in MAAR who is already in place, will be retained for the project to
supervise financial administration of its various sections, to consolidate
financial statements and assist the Project management with programming and
budgeting. To strengthen the Project's capacity in this field, provision is
made for staff training. DRE will prepare a six-monthly financial report for
the AREC meetings, to be suummarized in the semi-annual reports to IDA (para.
3.13).   During negotiations,  an assurance was obtained that the auditors'
reports would be submitted to IDA not later than September 30 of each fiscal
year.



- 30 -
.V. BENEFITS, INSTITUTIONAL IMPACT. RISKS AND ECONOMIC ASPECTS
Benefits
4.01     Agricultural production in PDRY stagnated for a number of reasons
during the last decade. As a consequence, aggregate domestic food supply has
fallen increasingly short of rising demand and, in order to meet the resulting
deficit, imports of agricultural imports have grown quickly and presently
account for as much as two-thirds of GNP. Within the limits set by its land
and climatic endowments and constraints, Yemeni agriculture has the potential
to supply a larger and more diversified basket of goods than it presently
does, by increasing yields of existing crops, by raising cropping intensities
and introducing new crops. The overall organizational and policy environment
will also need to be favorable and it is encouraging that Government has begun
to show an increasingly pragmatic attitude in addressing some of the issues
involved (paras. 1.24 and 1.25). A well conceived and properly implemented
program of applied research and extension is essential to test, develop and
disseminate the appropriate technologies necessary to bring about the required
increases in output and productivity.
4.02     Average yields of most crops in PDRY are low by most standards (para.
2.05).   Proper dissemination of extension packages already available would
have a significant impact on aggregate crop yields. It is also expected that,
with this project, additional technology packages would be developed for
grains (wheat and sorghum), fruits (bananas, dates, citrus, annual fruits),
vegetables (tomatoes, potatoes, green vegetables), fodder crops and industrial
crops (cotton, tobacco). The benefits from such improvements are expected to
accrue eventually to about 35,000 farmers' families, or about 70 of the
nation's farming population.
Institutional Impact
4.03     The proposed project is designed to establish a viable agricultural
research and extension organization with sufficient resources to attract and
retain high-caliber Yemeni scientists, managers and extension workers. It is
anticipated that the proposed institutional structure would permit effective
planning and execution of national research and extension programs.  It is
also expected that there would be a more efficient use of the limited human
and financial resources as a result of the establishment of priorities and the
coordination of bilateral and multilateral efforts in the areas of research
and extension.   The project would be instrumental in integrating into one
organization the multitude of independent extension activities presently
implemented  under  various  projects.   The  unified  command  structure  for
research and extension should lead an improved integration of effort.
4.04     Under the project, the extension service would be formally linked to
the cooperative structure, in that the local extension officer would be a
member of the cooperative executive council (para. 2.32). As recent experience
demonstrates, the extension officer in this capacity can be instrumental in
rationalizing the production plans of cooperatives and in determining input
requirements. The direct association of the extension service, and indirectly
of the research establishment, with the formulation of production plans for



- 31 -
the producing units should be highly beneficial. Similarly, the mechanisms to
be established for coordination of input requirements of cooperatives and
state farms, is expected to lead to an improvement in the timely supply of
such inputs.
Risks
4.05     There is always the risk that the research program will not ade-
quately reflect the farmers' real needs, or that, if the research results are
appropriate, these are not adequately relayed to the farmers.  The proposed
project seeks to minimize these risks by having the regional research centers
working on a comnodity-oriented basiti, and by providing for subject matter
extension specialists in each of the regions to serve as a link between
research and extension in the various Governorates (para. 2.34). Also, over-
all responsibility for research and extension will be linked, at both the
Governorate and the national level, under a unified command.  Also, because of
the sector's modest economic importance, investment in agricultural research
in PDRY could conceivably lead to some diseconomies of scale.  In order to
minimize this risk, it is important that the efficiency and impact of the
research and extension effort be regularly monitored and evaluated (paras.
3.13-3.15).
4.06     Another risk is that rigidities in the overall  institutional  and
policy framework of the economy may constrain farmers' responsiveness to
charge. In recent years, however, Government has considered it appropriate to
initiate measures aimed at a gradual liberalization of parts of the sector.
Further progress in this direction is expected as a result of the experimenta-
tion with a few selected cooperatives provided for under the Second Wadi
Hadramawt Project and further extended under the present project, and the
continuing dialogue of IDA with the Government on the sectoral policies and
programs as well as similar discussions in the context of future IDA projects.
4.07     Finally,  the  initial  scarcity  of  well-qualified  subject  matter
specialists (SMSs) could constitute a constraint in transferring research
findings to the extension service. Their early training is, therefore, very
important   (para.  2.34) and provisions have been made for this under the
project, though some SMSs would become available even earlier, following the
proposed restructuring of the research activities. Also, available extension
packages for the initial period have been identified (Annex 6).
Economic Aspects
4.08     Because of the large number of investment activities going on in PDRY
agriculture, there is no realistic means of estimating the possible benefits
attributable to this particular project; it is designed to support those
investment  activities.   Most  available  evidence,  however,  points  to high
pay-off from research and extension projects  in developing  countries.   In
principle, this would almost certainly apply to PDRY, where for many economi-
cally important crops (e.g. cereals, fruits and vegetables) the scope for
research-induced improvements and yield increases is considerable. In view of
this, and of the measures described to minimize the risks analyzed above, the
proposed project is fully justified.   Furthermore,  the World Bank's Sector
Policy Paper on Agricultural Research (June 1981) recommends that a desirable
investment target for countries with poorly developed agricultural research
systems would be an annual equivalent expenditure (recurrent plus amortized
long-term investment) of about 22 of agricultural domestic product.  During
the course of the project, estimated annual equivalent expenditure for agri-
cultural research in PDRY would amount to about 1.5Z of sector GDP, or well
below the recommended limit.   Similarly, annual equivalent expenditure  for
extension during the course of the project would amount to an annual cost of
about US$15-20/family served, which is low by most standards.



- 32 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During  negotiations,  Government  provided  main  assurances  to  the
following effect:
(a)      Government  and  IDA  would  review  sector  policy  and  program
implementation in 1986 (para 2.04);
(b)      The multi-disciplinary research teams would be established not later
than December 31, 1986 (para 2.16);
(c)      The Field Extension Agents would exclusively work for the extension
service (para. 2.31);
(d)      Each cooperative in the Governorates of Abyan, Hadramawt and Lahej
would appoint an Agricultural Extension Supervisor as an advisor to
its executive council, not later than December 31, 1986 (para. 2.32);
(e)      Government would  implement  selected  reform  measures  in  selected
cooperatives at a date not later than December 31, 1986 (para. 2.39);
fE)      Government would  continue  to finance ongoing recurrent costs for
research and extension as well as include incremental operating costs
of the project in its future annual budget allocations (para. 3.12).
and
(g)      An annual project review and evaluation would be commissioned by MAAR
to be undertaken by consultants and the first report thereon would be
forwarded for comments to IDA not later than September 30, 1986 (para
3.14);
5.02 The following would be conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a)      The appointment of a Deputy Director for Extension and Training in
DRE, a Director of the El Kod Institute and Head of Extension in the
Governorates of Lahej and Abyan in consultation with IDA (para. 3.04);
(b)      The signature of a contract between Government and an internationally
recruited firm or organization which would provide the consultants
and administer the training program (para. 3.08): and
(c)      The appointment by Government of the Senior Research Advisor (para.
3.08).
5.03     With these assurances having been obtained and conditions set out
above being met, the project is suitable for a IDA credit of US$5
million equivalent at standard terms.  The Borrower would be  the
Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen.



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURE RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS COST SUMMARt
IYO '0001             W5$ '0001                    S Total
-I................  -------------          --    2 foreign  Ibs
Local Foreign Total    Local Foreign Total   Euchkange   Cts
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
CIVIL NORKS                       117.5   219.2  332.8   342.6  639.4  912.0           5s       17
EQUIPMENT A VEHICLES              82.0  458.2  540.2   239.1 t. 325.1 I. 574.9         11       28
INC  STAFF 8 OPERATING COSTS     343.6  148.8  492.4  1,001.7  433.9 1. 435.7          30       21
TECHINICAL ASSISTANCE                -  572.7  572.7          - 1. 169.  I. 1,. S      100      29
Total BASELINE COStS                 543.1 1.399.0 1.942.2  t.563.4 4. 078.8 S. 662.3      72      tOO
Physiel Contingencies             40.5   111.4  151.9    116.0  324.3  442.8           73        8
Price Contingencies                90.3  213.4  303.7   263.3  522. 1   M5.4            70       IS
Total PROJECT COSTS                  673.9 1.723.9 2. 37. 8  1. 964.8 5. 025. B 5, 990. 6  72      123
33fUg s           an  guu,ruwIn.:. . .  , u,w,a- zuhmhssa   n... s
PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBILIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURE RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Project Components by Year
gYm I 0001
Base Coste              Total
1    2    3    4        TO    fUSS  I 001
T=s-: us::: =:r:s ust.::  13    .-,23 ZT2u333
SUPPORT DIRECTORATE
RESEARCH S EXTENSION                24.6  L 4  6.4  8.4   4A 9           145.4
RESEARCH IEL KUO. SEIlUN. LAiDRI      194.6 231.5  97. 753.9   577.       1.5 54. 1
EXTENSION SERVICE                     131.6 244.1 246.1 119.1   741.9   2. 163.0
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   44.2 149.2  92.4  31.6   317.3       32S.2
TRAINING                               65.8 103.9  65.0  19.8   255. 4      744.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                      460.8 737.2 911.0 233.2  1.942.2   5.S2. 3
Physical Contingencles                  40.3  59.2  37.9  14.4   111.9       442.8
Price Contlngrincies                    18.6 987 114.8  70.6    03.?7        881.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                       520.7 895.2 563.8 31L.1  2.397.I    L990.6
urmug mu,::,: tr ssus::  gnu::  uuz-nu:m
Foroign Exchange                       419.4 70t.9 445.9 116.5  1.723.9   5.025.8



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
PEOPLES DEIIOCEAIC REPLILIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURE KSEARCO i D (ITENS ION
Suary Accout by Projet Cawpnent
(VD ION)
SUPPORT    RESEARCN                                             Phys (cat
UIRECTORATE  IEL NOD.                                          CDnt (spoois
RESEARCH A  SEIYN.  EXTEESION  TECHICAL                         ----------
ENTENSION   LANDAUW   SERE!CE  ASSISTAICE  TltAINING  Iotal     Z      nt
1. IN1ESTINENI COSS
- --------------
CIVIL mOltS                                      :10.3      72S.,           -         -   336.5  tl.1    37.4
EQUIPMENT 8 VEHICLES                    16.2    n22. 7      201.3           -         -   540.2  to.O    539
INC. SIAFF 8 OPERATING COSTS            33.7    144.0       314.7           -        -   492. 4   l.5   31.9
TEChNICAL ASSISTANCE                       -         -          -       317.3    255.4   572.7   s.0   28a5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                     49.9    577.6       741.9       317.3    255.4  11242.2   7.6a  151.1
Total BASELINE COSS                        49.9    577.6       741.3       317.3    255.4  1.942.2   7.6  151.1
Physical Contingencies                    3.4      61.5       58.2        15.3      12.1   151.2   0.0    0.0
Price Contln,gncIs                       6.2      80.1      125.0        53.S      38.4   303.7   B.9   21.0
rotal PROJECT COSTS                         59.4    719.8       325.2       386.7    30L61  2.397.6   7.2   172.3
=1--33,333....   3 3 .3 3 3. ....3...  323133 . 3 3 . 3.a 333 . 3   333  3s  ma 33s3
foreign Exchange                         24.3    589.7       432.5      328.7    306.51  .723.3    7.3  12I.5



- 35 -
ANNEX 3
PEOPLE;S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS OF IDA CREDIT
Cumulative Disbursement to End of Quarter
(US$ Million)
IDk Fiscal Year         Quarterly Disbursement         Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter Ending                       US$ Million               Percentage
1985/86
September 30, 1985               0.1               0.1            2
December 31, 1985                0.1               0.2            4
March 31, 1986                   0.1               0.1            6
June 30, 1986                    O./-              0.5           10
1986/87
September 30, 1986               0.2               0.7           14
December 31, 1986                0.2               0.9           18
March 31, 1987                   0.2               1.1           22
June 30, 1987                    0.2               1.3           26
1987/88
September 30, 1987               0.2               1.5           30
December 31, 1987                0.2               1.7           34
March 31, 1988                   0.3               2.0           40
June 30, 1988                    0.3               2.3           46
1988/89
September 30, 1988               0.3               2.6           52
December 31, 1988                0.4               3.0           60
March 31, 1989                   0.4               3.4           68
June 30, 1989                    0.4               3.8           76
1989/90
September 30, 1989               0.3               4.1           82
December 31, 1989                0.3               4.4           88
March 31, 1990                   0.3               4.6           92
June 30, 1990                    0.2               4.8           96
1990/91
September 30, 1990               0.1               4.9           98
December 31, 1990                0.1               5.0          100



- 36 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE OF EXPATRIATE ADVISORS
A. Senior Research Advisor
The Senior Research Advisor for this project must hold a Ph.D. in
agricultural sciences with a minimum of 10 years experience in the management
of research, preferably in developing countries. Ke must also have a broad
outlook on agriculture development and experience in handling staff of
different nationalities. Knowledge of Arabic, though not mandatory, would be
an added advantage.
Duties and responsibilities His primary duties and responsibilities would
include the following:
Mi) act as team leader of the international staff assigned to the
Project and as counterpart to the Director General for Research
and Extension;
(ii) assist in the procurement of farm equipment, laboratory instru-
ments, chemicals, insecticides and fungicides needed by the
project;
(iii)  identify staff for training and fellowships and establish contact
with the institutions where such training is to be carried out;
(iv) help setting up agriculture research priorities and annual plans
for work in line with Government plans for agriculture development;
(v)  propose structural changes which bring about efficiency and
maxioize staff productivity;
(vi) help setting up the multi-disciplinary research teams to satisfy
execution of the research priorities in an efficient-and orderly
manner;
(vii)  dispense project funds assigned for execution of research and
extension programs; and
(viii) help strengthen research and extension linkages.
B. Extension Advisor
The Advisor should hold a post-graduate degree or M.Sc in extension
systems and training and have a minimum of 10 years experience in extension
service management in developing countries. He should be able to express
himself fluently in English and Arabic. His dtuties would involve the
planning, coordination and evaluation of implementation of the project
extension component. He would work in close collaboration with the Yemeni



- 37 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
Deputy Director for Extension and Training as well as with the Heads of the
Extension Units in the governorates.
Duties and Responsibilities
His primary duties and responsibilities would include the following:
(i) formulate the format and content of the proposed extension program
at all levels;
(ii) develop and supervise application of procedures to evaluate pro-
gress achieved;
(iii) develop reporting procedures for key staff at various levels;
(iv)  plan and coordinate the training programs for extension workers at
the Giar Agricultural Training Center; and
iv) assist the Communications Advisor, in particular, and the Develop-
ment Support Communications Unit, in general, in the preparation
of extension material for mass-media distribution.
C. Communications Advisor
The Advisor should hold an Master degree in mass-media communications
and have at least 7 years experience in communications work in the field of
rural extension and training. He should be able to express himself fluently
in Arabic and English. His duties would involve the planning, coordination
and supervision of all mass-media extension work carried out in the Cozmuuni-
cation Unit of MAAR. He would work in close collaboration with the Yemeni
Deputy Director for Extension and Training and the expatriate Extension
Advisor.
Duties and Responsibilities
His primary duties and responsibilities would include the following:
Ci) install the equipment provided under the project;
(ii) operate the equipment and produce suitable mass-media programs and
printed material; and
(iii) train DSCU staff and extension service staff in the operation
of the audio-visual equipment provided under the project.
D. Agricultural Economics Advisor
The advisor should hold a Master's degree in Agricultural Economics
and have at least 5 years professional experience in developing countries.
His duties would involve the economic assessment of research and extension
prioeities and programs. He would work closely with the Director for Research
& Extension, the Senior Research Advisor, the Extension Advisor and the Yemen
staff in the field.



- 38 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
Duties and Responsibilities.
His primary duties and responsibilities would include the following:
(i)  evaluate the economic relevance of short-and long term research
objectives and priorities and, if necessary, make proposals for
change;
(ii)- estimate costs and benefits of the extension program in different
locations and, if appropriate, make proposals for changes in
approach, staffing, emphasis etc.; and
(iii)  carry out crop-and enterprise production studies in order to assist
in determining fruitful areas'for applied research and extension;
and
(iv)  establish and review a system of indicators to monitor the impact
of the extension service on the farming community.



AG!!   IL   J     A I AI 1. i, S  I..     C E
Trainina SehedUle
YEARS                  Suggested
Rrs areh                                        lanklnths               Dare or Trainin            loss5  l1036    197    10?  *      Lo91tian or Inititut.
I. El Kod Ressarch Center.
Entomology (2)                                    2                    Training                                 ----               EUROPE or USA
Vegetable Production (2)                          2                    Training                                                    EUROPE, INOIA
Economics (2)                                     2                    Training                                                    EUROPE, USA
Workshop Maintenance                             12                    Trainino                                                    EUROPE, TUHIS
Instrument Repair                                 6                    Training                                                    EUROPE
Tropical Fruit Production                        12                    Training                                 ....               INDIA
Plant Protection (Weed Control)                   6                    Training                          ---                       CUROPE, USA
Plant Production                                  6                    Training                                 ---                ICAROA
Soil Analysis                                     6                    Training                ---                                 ACSAD
Greenhouse Maintenance                            6                    Training                                                    Europe
Nursery Hanagaunt                                 6                    Training                ---                                 Europes  INDIA
Farm Managemitt                                  6                     Training                          ---                       ICARDA
Library                                          6                     Training
II. Lawdar Substation:
Nursery Management                                6                    Training                ---                                 ARAB COUNTRIES
Potato Culture                                   6                     Training                           ...                      HOLLANO
Grafting Procedure                                6                    Training                           ---                      SYRIA
Tropical Fruits                                   6                    Training                                  ..                INOIA
III. S&MLvn Resgarch Centsr:
Vegetable Production (2)                         24                    Training                                 ----               EUROPE or INDIA
Plant Protection (2)                            24                     Training                                                    EUROPE or USA 
Economics (2)                                   24                     Training                                                    EUROPE OR USA
Plant Protection                                 12                    Training                           ....                     EUROPE
Tropical fruits                                  it                    Training                                                    INDIA
Farm Management                                  12                    Trainin                                  ----               ICARDA
Workshop Managem_nt                               6                    Training                            ----                    EUROPE
Library Science                                  6                     Training                ---                                 FAO
Date Palm Managment                               6                    Training                             ---                    TUIESIA. ALGERIA, IRAQ
Potato Production                                6                     Training                             ---                    HOLLAND
Nursery Manag eme nt                              S                    Training                                                    SYRIA, IOIA
Field Crops (Cereals)                            6                     Training                                 ---                ICARDA
Weed Control                                      6                    Training                             ---                    EUROVE
Sub-Total Research                                 312
B. Extension and Communicationi
Extension System  & Methodology                  18 (2x9)              Diploma                -..                                  READING UNIVERSITY.
UK OR USA
Training of Subject Matter
Specialists                                      30 (6xS)              Short Term                                                  WAGENINNGN,
Specialized Course                             ---       ---                       NETHERLANOS,
AUSTRALIA USA
T.V. Program Production                           a                    Hedim term                          ---                    ENGLAND (OCK)
Specialized Course
Audiovisual Equipm.nt A Material                 12 (4x3)              Short Term
Specialized                         ---                    ENGLAND or USA
Course
Printing & Graphic Arts                           4                    Short Term
Specialized                         ---                    ENGLAND or USA
Course
Sub-total Extension/Coimwnication                   72



- 40 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURE RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
RECOMMENDED EXTENSION PACKAGES
Wheat      Use the varieties Kalyansona, Sonalika, or Ahgaf; Plant in November
use about 125kg/ha N and 60kg/ha P205.
Cotton     Recommended varieties are KB138 under irrigation, Coker 100 Wilt
under spate. Use Sevin 85% and Nuvacrone and CRD for control of
bollworm at 18% infestation; fertilizer rate of 60 kg/ha for each
of N and P205 is recommended; plant in August or September.
Groundnut  Ashford variety is recommended; fertilizer use is as in cotton.
Sesame     Control Fusarium with TMTD, PCN-13, Benlate and Vitavax; for
mildews use Nimrud, Norestan and sulfur.
Cowpea     TUV 4557 and TUV 3629 are the recommended varieties; best time of
planting is in August; fertilizer use is as in cotton.
Tomato     Super Roma, Super Chico, Anahu FNR and Pearson's Best are the
recommended varieties. A population of 25,000-30,000 plants/ha is
reco  ended.  Fertilize use as in cotton.  Insect control through
Sevin 85%, and Gardona 75% at a later stage of plant growth,; for
fungi use Zineb, Diathan and M-45.
Onion      Use the variety Golden Creole; increase plant density to about
400,000 plants/ha.
Melon      For sweet melons Mainstream, Honey Dew, and Hales Jumbo Best are
recommended; Zineb and Maneb are used for the control of fungi.
Plant in July or mid December; preventive sprays at 7-10 days
interval are suggested; Charleston Gray 133 is the recom ended
variety for water melon.
Potato     Recommended varieties are Mirka, Ajax No. 104 and Baraka;
fertilizer rates of 75 kg/ha N, 75 kg/ha P205 and 75 kg/ha k give
best results.
Maize      Kanija variety is recommended; a rate of 100 kg/ha N is used for
fertilization. Stem borer is controlled by use of Sevin 85%, and
shoot fly with Sumicidin.
Papaya     Poyo variety is recommended; fruits to be picked at color change
stage and marketed within 24-28 hours.



-41-
ANNEX 6
Page 2
Banana     Dwarf Cavandish is the recommended variety; fruit spotting is
minimized through the use of Diuethoate, Actellic or Sevin 852.
Citrus     Nursery sanitation to be practiced: use virus free rootstocks;
reduce incidence of black fly by use of Actellic, Dimethoate or
Supracid at the rate of 1-1.5S in May or June.
Dates      Control lesser date moth by using Carbaryl, Malathion or
Tetrachorviphos.



- 42--
ANNEX 7
Page 1
PEOPLES' DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR SELECTED FIELD EXTENSION STAFF
A. Field Extension Agent (FEA)
His duties and tasks would comparise the following:
(i)    to identify contact farmers with whom he would work in a regular
and planned manner, to whom he would disseminate improved
technology and through whom he would influence the other farmers
in the area;
(ii)    to lay out reasonably-sized and low-cost demonstration fields on
farmers fields and organize field days to demonstrate improved
technology and the results obtained;
(iii)    to organize short-term training courses and group gatherings for
farmers in his area for film projection or listening and
discussion sessions;
(iv)    to organize large-scale plant protection campaigns if and when
the need arises and to encourage farmers to participate;
(v)    to participate in training sessions organized on a regular and
planned system to upgrade his performance and supply him with
the necessary technical know-how for his work; and
(vi)    to report to his supervisor (AES) on the progress of his plan of
work.
B.  Agricultural Extension Supervisor (AES)
His duties and tasks would comprise the following:
(i)    to supervise the program of work of his FEAs with different
types of farmers and monitor its impact;
(ii)    to plan and implement a continuous training program for the FEAs
according to the needs of his area;
(iii)    to report to the Head of Field Extension in the Governorate and
participate in planning of work and its monitoring; and
(iv)    to participate in the cooperative management and assist the
management in preparing the annual plan of production, in
estimating the inputs needed for its implementation and to
report these directly to his Deputy Head for Field Extension.



43 -
ANNEX 8
PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICUMMURE RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
BRIEF TASK DESCRIPTION OF SENIOR EXTENSION PERSONNEL
IN THE GOVERNORATES
(i) Head of Extension. He would have the overall responsibility for
the preparation, proper implementation and monitoring of the
annual extension program in the Governorate. Assisted by his
deputies he would evraluate the performance of the field staff
and monitor it through a system of impact indicators. He would
also advise the Director of Agriculture in the Governorate
regarding the resources and services needed for the successful
implementation of the extension activities as well is for the
annual production plans of the cooperatives. Furthermore,
he would administer the section's budget and make proper alloca-
tions in accordance with priorities laid down in the program and
submit regular reports to the DRE.
(ii) Deputy Head for Field Extension. His primary functions would
be: (i) to monitor the activities of the field staff (AESs and
FEAs) and its impact amongst farmers and report these to the
Head of Extension; (ii) to participate in training courses for
AESs and FEAs; and (iii) to assist the AESs in their role of
advising the cooperative management on coordination of inputs.
(iii) Deputy Head for Information and Training. His primary functions
would be: (i) to organize training courses for all field staff,
at both the governorate level and in the Giar Agricultural
Training Center in close collaboration with the management of
that center, and (ii) to make available to the field staff the
necessary audio visual and printed materials. In the latter
capacity he would work closely with the CU.
(iv) Subiect Matter Specialists (SMSs). First, these would be
responsible for the training of the FEAs, along with their
AESs. Such training sessions would be held for one day every
week. The field staff would be arranged in manageable groups of
15 to 20 for each session. At the early stages of the project,
the team of SMSs in the governorate would include specialists
for field crop agronomy, horticulture and plant protection.
Secondly, they would monitor the feasibility of applying
improved technology under farmers' conditions and refer these to
the research stations. Thirdly, the SMSs would constitute the
extension services? main link with the state farms' management,
in that they would advise the manager, at his request, on
cropping patterns and appropriate inputs, and assist in solving
technical problems in general. Finally, they would assist the
research centers in site selection, evaluation and monitoring of
the verification trials laid out in farmers' fields.



PEOPLES'S OEIIVTKC BiPIMIC OIF m[uV
AGgiGLTURAL RISEAKH MAOI-XTENSION PIOJECT
EXTENSION StAFF NEEDS SY DUALIFIiATIOU AM  PEBOID OF BCRUIUNT
&umituiremwnts -by Fuct i      Regu jrntjb.    AvaulabLltLbv    Shortfall/                               P riQdLof
04ljfitationg     Oual f etin          iEess                          Reri tL
!s  AIS.   S1.           S      &a. Tech   ASQ_. Am. Tgeh.        t%   ALIBAb             nu      JUL.  Ei         law
Hadra.wt           26     4      6         10       26          20       13       +10       -13              3       -       -        I
Lami               29     4      6         10       29          12       2S        +2        -4              2       -       -        2
Abyan              44     6      6         12       44           4       10        -l       -34             16      19      11       46
Totals             99    14    1s          32       99          36      4U         +4       -51             21      19       7       51                       I
_                                             fl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l



- 45 -
Annex 10
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
MAJOR RESEARCH RESULTS IN PERIOD BEFORE 1984
Since the inception of research in 1955, useful results have been
achieved, though they are mostly associated with the earlier period when
adequate members of internationally recruited scientists worked in PDRY. Some
of the more noteworthy achievements include the following: (i) selection of a
long-staple cotton variety (KB138) and medium-staple cotton variety (Coker
1000 Wilt), for use in well-and spate-irrigated areas; (ii) selection of the
Kalyansona and Sonalika, and more recently Ahgaf, wheat varieties which were
well received by farmers of Hadramawt and Shabwa Governorates; (iii) selection
of the Keneija variety of maize which was released and accepted by farmers;
(iv) release of the Super Chico (22 tlha) and Super Roma (14 t/ha) tomato
varieties and the Desire (24 t/ha) and Patrones (19 t/ha) potato varieties;
Red Creole (7 t/ha) and Golden Creole (14 t/ha) onion varieties and high
yielding selections of vegetables, such as, okra, sweet and hot pepper, all of
which surpassed yield levels of earlier existing cultivars; (v) substitution
of the traditionally cultivated dwarf Cavandish banana by the better yielding
Poyo variety (29 t/ha). Furthermore, the Roney Dew papaya was introduced
-hich averaged 26 t/ha.  Useful recommendations were also developed
concerning: (i) cultural practices for main crops including land preparation,
seeding rates, spacing, time of planting, optimum fertilization, crop
protection and irrigation techniques; (ii) the establishment of, and potential
returns from, windbreaks for control of shifting sand dunes in cultivated
areas, and (;ii) post-harvest handling and storage of major fruit and
vegetable crops, including appropriate time of harvest and ripening techniques
for banana, papaya and other fruits, as well as assessing the suitability of
chili and tomato cultivars for processing. The technological packages and
recommendations which have been formulated are summarized in Annex 6. In
addition to applied research work, progress was made with surveys in the
following areas: (i) the collection of existing land races of cereals and
other main crops grown in PDRY; (ii) economically important pests, diseases
and weeds, and (iii) identification of trees in the country.



- 46 -
Annex ll
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
PRESENT RESEARCH STAFF AND BUDGET
Research Staff by Degrees and Specialization.
and Number of Those Currently Abroad
Abroad on
Specialization             Ph.D.     M.Sc.      B.Sc.   Diploma  Fellowship
I. El Kod Research
Station
Section:
Extension                                                     1 M.Sc.
Field Crops            1         4          1                 1 Ph.D. 1 M.Sc.
Weed Control                     1          2
Food Technology                  1          1
Horticulture                     4          3                4 Ph.D.
Tobacco                                     2        2
Soils                  1/1       3                            1 Ph.D.
Irrigation                       4          1                1 Ph.D.
Farm Mechanization               4                            1 Ph.D.
Entomology                       4          1                 1 Ph.D.
Plant Pathology        3                    1                2 Ph.D.
Forestry and Range               4/2        1
Economics                        3
Total                5        32         13        2      12
II. Seiyun Research
Station
Section:
Field Crops                     i         3                 1 Ph.D.
Soils and Irrigation            1                   1       1 Ph.D.
Plant Protection                1         5
Horticulture                              4
Forestry                                  1         1
Economics                                 1
Farm Mechanization              1       _                    _     -
Total                          4        14         2       2
III. Sub-stations:
Various                                             17
Grand Total            5        36        27        21       14
/l Employed by state farms
12 One employed by Abyan Department of Agriculture
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform



- 47 -
Annex 12
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
EXTENSION PERSONNEL
Available Extension Personnel by Qualification /1
Governorate                  B.Sc.                   Agric. Technician
Hadramawt                     20                            13
Lahej                         12                            25
Abyan                          4                            10
Totals                        36                            48
/1 excluding Shabwa Governorate.
BUDGET
Agricultural extension is a neglected part of the country's agricul-
ture development expenditure. Out of a total DRE's budget of YD 713,900, only
15% is earmarked for extension work (1984). Most of these funds are intended
for extension work in four Governorates and for extension support work carried
out by staff of the two main research stations. The Giar Agricultural
Training Center has a separate budget which for 1984 is expected to be YD
130,000, more than three-quarters of which is for salaries, the balance for
operating costs and maintenance. A small investment of about YD 40,000/year
for field extension work is also provided under the development budget of the
Ministry of Planning as counterpart support for the IDA-assisted projects.
Ja



- 48 -
Annex 13                  Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
SPECIFIC PROPOSED RESEARCH PROGRAMS
Horticultural Crops. For tomato, research cooperation with the AVRDC
would be maintained and the introduction of suitable tomato varieties (high
yielding, disease resistant, and heat tolerant) continued in order to extend
product availability over a long period for both fresh consumption and for
tomato paste production. The season can also be extended through such
measures as shade netting, which should be tried to test its suitability under
local conditions. Research on melons, would emphasize disease resistance to
mildews, blossom-end rot and cucurbit fly. In potatoes more effort is needed
towards selection of blight-resistant high-yielding varieties. Such research
would be carried out at Mukairas where climatic conditions permit optimal
potato growth and where seed potatoes are being produced. Additional work is
also needed to establish adequate seed multiplication and storage procedures.
Control of thrips has resulted in the decrease of the banana fruit spotting
phenomenon: hc.wever, more work is needed to establish accurately the real
cause of the spotting as it decreases the market value of the fruits. For
oranges, virus-free buds are to be selected with virus-resistant rootstocks so
that healthy plants can be made available to the farmers. Furthermore, better
nursery practices need to be developed for the production of suitable
seedlings of mango and papaya. Date palm is an important fruit tree in many
parts of the country and attention would be directed towards proper control of
the devastating palm borer. Also, suitable low-cost techniques for cleaning
and storing dates need to be further developed.
Industrial Crops. Work on developing long-staple cotton cultivars is
to be continued. As seed of this type of cotton is not available
internationally , a seed multiplication program would be established to
guarantee availability of the annual seed requirement. Recently, Coker
100-W%ilt has been selected which yields reasonably well under spate
irrigation; however, adequate cultural practices need to be determined which
will make commercial production profitable. rnsect and disease control
measures should be annually verified. For tobacco, especially the local pipe
tobacco, the opportunity exists to develop a cash crop for export as this type
of tobacco is in high demand in the Gulf States.
Food and Feed Legumes. A wider variety of these crops are needed on
individual farms to diversify cropping patterns to improve soil conditions and
to provide part of the grain legume needs of both humans and livestock. Under
a single spate irrigation, farmers have achieved groundnut yields of 2.5
tons/ha. _wpeas yield 1.0-1.5 tons/ha and due to the short life cycle (only
80 days), this crop has considerable potential in multiple cropping. With
respect to feed le-imes, lablab, Lablab Purpuruns, and Clitoria Ternatea
should be tested further and their production expanded, as trials in Yemen
Arab Republic with similar climatic condition have shown successful



ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2
intercropping of these two forages with sorghum. Where water is available,
alfalfa is a valuable forage crop for which sufficient varieties need to be
selected and advanced cultural practices developed.
Cereals. For sorghum emphasis should be placed on the selection of
dual-purpose cultivars, as stover is equally important as the grain.
Selection among local strains should have a high priority. Since sorghum is
generally produced under spate irrigation, validation of research findings
under such conditions is important. Furthermore, when selecting among the
introduced varieties, grain color should be taken into account, as dark
colored sorghum grain is at a consumer discount. For wheat, attention would
be given to selection of medium-tall varieties as, again, straw is as
important as grain, for livestock as well as in house construction. For maize
only high-yielding open pollinated or synthetic varieties are to be promoted
since hybrid seed production is technically not feasible and timely imports
cannot be guaranteed, if only because of increasing foreign exchange
constraints. For all cereals, disease resistance is crucially important and
selections need to be made accordingly. Cooperation with the specific
international centers is essential to introduce adequate material for
evaluation under both short-and long-term cereal improvement programs.
Farming Systems Research. This is defined "as the intricate complex
of soil, plants, animals, implements and other inputs and environmental
resources controlled by a farming community". As it is recognized as a vital
step towards adoption of new technologies, it is important that research in
this field be continued. The present UNDP/FAO Farming Systems Research
project would be irtegrated within the DRE and its research activities be
continued. Studies on cropping patterns, irrigation systems, intercropping,
and machinery use would be of substantial value to test the applicability of
the commodity-specific findings of the MDRTS.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Proposed Organizatlion Chart for Depadrment of Research and Extension
|Minlstr of ArTcuftu T
|& Agrarian WoramI
Tecfnical Conrmie  O y Q tDeputy lnister to
l             l       ~~~~~~~Plartina h PtodLction
rAGliculluwoREsorCh & |                                          fDircCor Genwtil
ExrCau- - -   - -                                     _  -|fResearch t        ETrarinn
,Chn l   AonEx Drten                                               Head  Of                DqAty  Dirhctor
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                   1           em
see.,..            h CeG ou __    hre ewo e  .. ne             c       __|
|~~~~~ ~  DouyhtO t      euyHodb            ubitMt6 
Consult0fr| GltExeo                     Hea of ExotenAracthq  |  SeedgstMS)
-   .-.   --   --- I- :ctifllO(y or C l-r-                                      ---
@~~~~Lr x  iAcuteEtwonsion        *  
j  -    -      *    | ~~~~Supwvicn (AESs)            e
Coopercls       *                e                                  State 5aFarm 
k bnogenwnl   | *                                              ei |   n       tw w
* | Fbidk Extension
*    t Agwenh(FEAs)
Legend
dAcrWnindsrclv Control
*   * * * * * IrchICtzZ Diroetktin
~ ~ ~ ~ ~Adsisacr aCoorainotion                                                                                         A fln26



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Implementatlon Schedule
Pre-Project           PY                 PY2                PY3                 PY4
Fw  1inanced Advisor
Contract Technical Asslstance                                                                             .
Selection of Feliows for Training
Abroad
Tendering Civil Works                                                                                                                                                       n
Construction Period
Purchose Vehicles & Equipment
IDA Supervislon Mission                              _         _          _         _         _          D      _
External Project Evaluation
Reseorch Plans & Progroms Reports               _    _   _ _
SuUmisslon Auditors Report to IDA                                                                            .        _
World Bonk-26254



450                                                 480
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJ-
PROJECT FEATURES
Main Agricultural Areas                      ELEVATIONS
180          Project Reseorch Stations                    2000 meters
EXISTING FEATURES                            1000
    Selected Towns and Villages                  200                             /
@    Governorate Capitals                         0
*    National Capital
t    Airports
.te   Ports
Primary Roads
Secondary Roads
---- Tracks                                                          /|
-.--<Jr, Wadis                                                     /-
CGovernorate Boundaries                                                     t
_ . -  International Boundaries
j/,                 ,     :-
0000'              1I  --%      :    7
Y  E  M   E  N              Al,y''"   \  ,- \
-150                               Al Ayn                      ro           _ 
A R A B                               5-H A B-,WA
REP.~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
If
\l        L% j N aqobNhb
7o A                              Y    4viz z                                Bir A i
ro rcl5zz                                                                 48
,}   c ,  K     SIwq~~~ra
'I Kod 
12                 ~~~~~~~4s                                               48,



IBRD 18277
40                                                          51                            OCTOBER 1984
TEMEN
,ION PROJECT                                                        i B\ .
5 > t _.-                 i              R  O~~ M A N
/-                         ,i/                  >           ,/'  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~18-
AL
/  \                  -                                            AdA HRA    Ls
~~~~~~~/  JHADRMAI
o./   8 -                   S - (i    ~~~~~~~~~~~~M A H R AI   -
w      -   - ~~~~H A D R A M A w                                            -                           y
:3takh ;tr 
\ s ( 7 i_    Al-Ghaydah
I . j      . S        ,Ghaf          -:-- 
_ ~    v,i .   WHouro  \\  \h-r/
=  @   (   t                            '            yhtJt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nshu
15-
~~~~~~~~Ar Riyan
I -lJ$AI Mukalla
Bir Ali
0                   100                  200
KI LOMETERS
This map has been preoared by The Worwi Ba*s staff ahvebb tfr me cownce of
Me readers and is exckusvely for the nternal use ot The VWbrd Baw* and the hblemlrr
Fnance Corporation. The denomnabens used and Me boundaies sho oan tis map do net
im*. on Ihe part of The MUhld Bankr ard the h,tematbonal Fance CorpomrW anyJuxdn,
on the bgal status of ary terlory or av endorsement or aacwtance of asLI bow,daris
48                                                             51                                      12






