Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
c R  x5 3_   s
Repoit No. P-3895-
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PREsiDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNhT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 5.1 MILLICN
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
February 19, 1985
This document bs a resricted distrlbutim md may be used by recipient ouly in the perfolnanc of
their offica dute  Its cOteqts maY no doerwise be dicloed widtho World Bank autnhorit..



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984               January 1985
Currency Unit    =    Yemeni Dinars (YD)
UStl       =          YD 0.343                      0.343
YDI                   US$2.915                      2.915
PDRY Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AES       -  Agriculture Extension Supervisor
AREC      =  Agriculture Research and Ex-tension Council
cu           Comunications Unit
DRE       =  Department of Research and Extension
FAO          Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FEA       =  Field Extension Agent
GDP       =  Gross Domestic Prod.e.L
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
LCB       =  Local Competitive. Bidding
LIT          Limited International Tendering
MAAR      =  Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
MDRT      =  Multidisciplinary Re:earch Team
MRS       = Machinery Renting Station
NBY       =  Na.ional Bank of Yemen
PDRY      =  People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
SFYP      =  Second Five Year Plan
SMS       =  Subject Matter Specialist
SRA       =  Senior Research Advisor



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE' S DEMOCRAIIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Amount:         SDRs 5.1 million (about US$5.0 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard IDA
Project
Description:  The project aims at strengthening agricultural research in
PDRY and developing a national extension service for
transmitting the research findings to the farming cormunity.
This would be accomplished by: Ci) establishing priority
research programs to focus on those agricultural activities
which are economically important; (ii) establishing multi-
disciplinary research teams to work on those programs; (iii)
strengthening linkages between research, extension and the
farming community, and (iv) establishing a national exten-
sion service. The project components include: (a) strength-
enng the Department of Research and Extension through
internal reorganization and provision of technical assis-
tance; Cb) strengthening research activities through internal
reorganization, provision of technical assistance, training
and funds to equip the research stations; and (c) establishing
an extension service through provision of technical assis-
tance, training and funds necessary for an appropriate
infrastructure, including expansion of an existing development
communications unit.
Benefits        The project would directly benefit about 35,000 farming
and Risks:    families (nearly 200,000 persons) through development and
application of new technology packages. A risk to the project
stems from rigidities in the overall organizational and policy
environment, which may constrain farmers' responsiveness to
change. The project would call for a wider application of
reform measures introduced under the recently approved Wadi
Hadramawt Project (Cr. 1346-YDR). IDA would provide
assistance to the Government, through its lending strategy and
further sector work (planned for 1986), for continuation of
the gradual reform of sector policies which has been recently
initiated.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i$ -
Estimated Project Costa, a
_____t                                Local           poreim             Total
Support to DE                          0.1              0.1               0.2
Research Statioa                       0.3               1.4              1.7
Extesion Service                       1.2               0.8              2.0
Technical Assistance                    -                1.0              1.0
Traiig                                  -               0.8               0.8
B"e Cost                           T.                                   77
Physical Contingencies                 0.1              0.3               0.4
Price Contingencies                    0.3              0.6               0.9
Total Cost it                      2.0              5.0               7.0
Financing Plan:
ponent                                Local           Foreiga            Total
-S   million
IDA 3/                                 0.0              5.0               5.0
Government                             2.0              0.0               2.0
Total                               2.0              5.0               7.0
11 Rounded figures.
12  Exclusive of taxes and duties fro  which public projects are exempt.
/3 Including PPF advance of i0,000.
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA Fiscal Year
1986     1987       1988      1989     1990     1991
--             - IJS$ milionlo--
Annual                    0.5       0.8        1.0       1.2      1.0      0.5
Cumulative                0.5       1.3        2.3      3.5       4.5      5.0
Economic Rate of Returu;  Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 5274-YDR, dated gebruary 1, 1985.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IDA
TO THE EXECUTIm DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEKEN
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recomaendation on a proposed credit
of SDR 5.1 million (about US$5.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to
the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) to help finance an
Agricultural Research and Extension Project.
PART I - THE ECONONY 1/
2.       An economic report entitled "People's Democratic Republic of Yemen:
Special Economic Report-Mid-Term Review of the Second Five-Year Plan,
1981-85" (4726-YDR) dated June 4, 1984, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 21, 1984. A country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Situated in the southwestern corner of the Arabian Peninsula, the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY), with a population of 2.0 million
(1983) covers an area of 333,000 square km and extends nearly 1,400 km along
the Gulf of Aden. It is a semi-arid land of rugged configuration with sparse
vegetation, low rainfall and few natural resources. Agricultural production
is limited to some 12 scattered wadis comprising the total cultivable area of
about 200,000 ha or less than 1 percent of the country's land surface. The
one major resource is fish, which is not yet fully exploited. The majority of
the population lives on the narrow coastal plain along the Gulf. There is
also a concentration of population in the Wadi Hadramawt, a large fertile
valley in the centre of the country. The rest of the population, of which 10
percent is bedouin, live in small scattered communities. There are also an
estimated 200,000 Yemenis working outside PDRY. Except for the oil refinery
at Little Aden, there is little industrial activity in the country. The
country is still at a low level of development, its institutions are
relatively weak and its per capita income was $470 in 1982.
Development Objectives and Constraints
4.       Prior to Independence in 1967, the economy was mainly centered around
Aden and depended heavily on services provided by the port of Aden and
1/ Part I and Annex I of this report are substantially the same as those in
the President's Report for the Fourth Education Project (SF-19-YDR) which
was approved by the Executive Directors on May 8, 1984.



budgetary support from the British. Following Independence, the Government
has sought to diversify the economy and carry economic developmeat to all
parts of the country. Over the past decade, the Government of PDRY has
consistently pursued a strategy of developing the country within the context
of a planned economic system embodying state-owned enterprises in industry and
services, and state farms and cooperatives in agriculture and fisheries. The
principal objectives of the Government have been: (a) to satisfy the basic
needs of the population for food, essential consumer goods, shelter, employ-
ment, health care and other social services; (b) to develop the production
capacity of the economy, especially in agriculture, fisheries, manufacturing,
construction and minerals; Cc) to strengthen the infrastructure sectors, i.e.,
transport, power and telecoumunications; Cd) to raise education standards,
emphasizing technical and higher education; and (e) to increase exports.
5.       Private enterprise was given a subsidiary role by the Government, and
was to be gradually replaced by public corporations and cooperatives. But the
private sector has proven to be resilient and appears to have regained some
strength in recent years. At present, it is estimated to account for almost
half of the nation's gross output of goods and services (excluding government
services). Private activity can be found in almost every sector and is
strongly represented in agriculture, construction, trade and transport. The
volume of private investment--mainly in housing-has risen sharply since the
mid-1970s. Cooperation between public and private capital is encouraged in
some areas, such as light industries, and a limited number of joint ventures
are now active. Foreign private investors have been invited to participate in
oil exploration and the fishing industry. A new Investment Promotion Law has
recently been promulgated, providing incentives to private investors and
encouraging foreign investment in other sectors such as tourism and
construction. The response has been good from both Yemeni nationals returning
from abroad and private foreign investors, but unfortunately the Government is
not yet in a position to offer significant assistance by way of feasibility
studies or suitable projects.
6.       Since the early 1970s the country has made significant progress in a
number of areas. Supplies of basic foodstuffs and other essential consumer
goods were increased, although largely through higher imports. School
enrollment rose sharply, adult literacy programs were introduced, and health
services improved. The transport network was strengthened, new power stations
built, and productive capacities in agriculture, fisheries and manufacturing
expanded. Substantial investments were made in mineral exploration while more
recently, there was an upsurge in private house construction. Rising
investments led to a rapid expansion of the local construction industry.
Overall economic expansion, together with net emigration abroad not only
eliminated open unemployment, but created some labor shortages.
7.       These developments were supported by substantial aid inflows, and by
a large increase of remittances sent by Yemenis working abroad (see para. 16).
The country has a very meagre export base and there has been little (if any)
growth in exports in recent years. Notwithstanding large investments in these
sectors, agricultural and fish production have stagnated in the last five to
six years.  However, since an increasing amount of product can be sold in the



- 3 -
free market as opposed to official channels (see para. 10), the output
statiLtics may somewhat understate the level of production and thus the
performace of the agriculture and fisharies sectors.
8.       The Second Five-Year Plan which comenced in 1981 continuas to pursue
the overall development objectives outliund above (see para. 4). The Plan
proposes a total investment of $1.47 billion (in 1980 priceas) for 1981-85, of
which about $1.06 billion (72 percent) will be financed through foreign
capital. The production targets are ambitious and even though good progress
was made in the firat two years of the Plan, are unlikely to be achieved.
9.       The Government has tried to ease the shortages of adequately trained
manpower vith bilateral and multilateral technical assistance, including
assistance from UNDP which maintains a large program in PDRY. In addition,
again with foreign assistance (including IDA), a large education and training
program was launched and in recent years it has become increasingly
technically oriented.
10.      Low productivity in the public and cooperative sectors is one of the
principal problems faced by the Government. In addition to shortages of
trained manpower, the reasons for this can be traced largely to inadequate
incentive systems, including low Government procurement prices in agriculture
and fisheries, veak management, lack of spare parts, and poor mainteaance.
These constraints are often compounded by excessive state control which causes
distortions and stifles initiative. No early solutions to these deep-seated
problems are in sight, although the Government has recently started to pursue
a more flexible price policy to provide incentives for farmers and fishermen.
For example, state procurement prices for most agricultural crops and fish
have been substantially increased, accompanied by measures permitting farmers
and fishermen, both as individuals and in cooperatives, to sell a large
portion of their output on the free market at prices substantially above state
procurement prices.
Recent Economic Developments
11.      The Government's emphasis on development programs has led to a rapid
increase in public spending. Priority was given to public investment, which
increased from $57 million in 1974-75 to $397 million in 1982. These high
levels of public spending have accelerated the rate of economic growth. GDP
at constant prices has grown at an annual average rate of about 4 percent
during 1976-81, compared with only 2 percent per annum during 1970-75. The
major growth sectors were government services, construction and
manufacturing.  Agricultural output and fish production apparently stagnated.
To some extent the disappointing performance of agriculture and fisheries was
the result of labor migration from these sectors to higher paid jobs within
the country (i.e. construction) or abroad.
12.      Since 1982 pressures on the economy have been mounting.  Production
growth has slowed down partly as a result of the disastrous floods of early
1982 and the subsequent drought which continued into 1984. The floods of 1982
inflicted severe damage on the country's infrastructure and agriculture
sector, causing crop losses both for domestic consumption and export.



- 4 -
Industrial output showed only a small gain due to a shortage of inputs. As a
result, economic growth was negative in 1982 and the provisional figures for
1983 indicate that GDP grew by about 2 percent. The prospects for any
appreciable improvement in the near future appear very slim.
13.      To sustain the massive increase in public spending, the Covernment
had to make a major effort in mobilizing financial resources. Bew taxes have
been introduced and tax collection improved. In addition, profits of public
enterprises have been rising. As a result, total public sector income rose
from $68 million in 1974/75 to $397 million in 1982. This still left a large
overall deficit in the public sector amounting to $412 million in 1982.
14.      To supplement the insufficient domestic resources, the Government
turned for help to friendly nations and international agencies. Increasing
amounts of foreign aid were provided, largely by socialist countries and Arab
nations. In addition, PDRY received support from regional and international
organizations, including IDA.   Gross foreign aid inflows rose erratically
from $66 million in 1974 to $319 million in 1981. But aid inflows for 1982
showed a decline ($314 million) and the outcome for 1983 appears to be a
continuation of this downward trend.
15.      The overall expansion of economic activity, especially the growth in
investment, has induced a considerable flow of additional imports. Total
imports rose from $190 million in 1974 to $730 million in 1982. Most of the
increase was due to rising world prices, especially those for crude oil and
foodstuffs, reducing the growth of import volume to only one-fourth of the
nominal value. About 30 percent of imports represented food aud beverages, 22
percent crude oil and petroleum products, and 20 percent machinery and
equipment.
16.      Exports, mainly fish and cotton, have been able to cover only a minor
share of the import bill. In 1982, they were estimated to be about $21
million or some 3 percent of commodity imports. Much more important than
commodity exports are PDRY's invisible earnings which are dominated by labor
income and private transfers. The latter have risen rapidly since the
mid-1970s, increasing from $41 million in 1974 to $467 million in 1982. This
has been due to rising wage levels in the oil surplus countries, to additional
emigration, and to new incentives which liberalized remittance-financed
imports, allowed the construction of private dwellings, and offered higher
interest rates to non-resident bank depositors.  Fast growing exchange
earnings and increasing disbursemerts from foreign aid have enabled PDRY in
recent years to cover its import requirements and to strengthen its foreign
reserves. The latter rose from $67 million at end-1974 to $281 million in
December 1983, which accounted for a little more than 4 months of imports.
17.      Gross official reserves increased only moderately in 1982 and
declined slightly at the end of 1983. This probably reflects growing imports
due to the floods of 1982 and the intensification of the development effort,
as well as the fact that remittances have grown less rapidly in the past
years. The volume of imports is reported to have risen, especially for
consumer goods and fuels; in addition, import prices increased further. Labor



- 5 -
income and private transfers, on the other hand, have grown at a slower pace
as immigration and wages tended to stabilize in the oil exporting countries.
Rising import prices intensified inflationary pressures within PDRY and the
inflation rate rose to about 8 percent in 1982 compared to 4 percent in 1981.
(In 1983 it is estimated to have fallen back to around 5 percent). Theme
pressures were reinforced by substantial increases in wage levels, especially
in the private construction sector, and by growing domestic bank financing of
public sector expenditures. These factors all testify to the country's
continuing need for substantial financial assistance from abroad.
External Debt
18.      The large inflow of foreign loans since 1967 led to a rapid
accumuldtion of PDRY's external public debt, even though part of the aid was
provided in the form of grants. Total debt outstanding (including
undisbursed) as of June 30, 1984 amounted to $1,715 million, of which $1,054
million was disbursed. Bilateral sources accounted for $1,196 million or 70
percent of total commitments, with the USSR providing the bulk ($714 million),
followed by China ($149 million), Eastern European countries ($192 million),
Arab countries ($94 million) and France ($47 million). By end June 1984,
multilateral flows amounted to $519 million, including $349 million from Arab
Funds, $169 million from IDA 1/ and $6 million from the European Common
Market. The terms of all loans are highly concessionary. In addition, PDRY
has received $524 million in grant assistance during 1974-82, mostly from Arab
countries.
19.      The soft terms of PDRY's external debt have resulted in relatively
small debt service obligations. Debt service payments were $8 million in
1981. However, PDRY's debt service obligations almost doubled in 1982 (to $15
million), equivalent to 4.5 percent of total foreign exchange earnings from
exports of goods and services, and are projected to increase further in future
years. This will exert additional pressure on its balance of payments. In
view of the fragility of the economy, the country's low income level and low
level of development, the Bank's assistance to PDRY should continue to be on
IDA terms. For the same reasons, some local cost financing by IDA is
justified.
20.      In 1969, under Nationalization Law No. 37, the Government
nationalized most of the foreign-owned enterprises. This law provided for
compensation in the form of 20-year Government bonds bearing interest of 2
percent. In response, some of the foreign banks which were nationalized froze
substantial Yemeni deposits which they had transferred abroad. Settlements
have, however, been reached with almost all foreign companies. Dialogue
continues with the one remaining claimant company of which IDA is aware, and
both parties have stated their desire to reach a mutually acceptable
settlement.
1/ Including $10.4 million from the Special Fund (see pars. 22).



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 1/
21.      IDA's lending program in PDRY supports the Government's long-range
economic objective of broadening the base beyond the service-oriented economy
centered around Aden, by developing the productive capacity of the other
sectors of the economy and promoting investments in the outlying regions.
Efforts have been directed towards projects in the transport sector, which
would not only help to integrate the disparate regions of PDRY, but, more
importantly, link production areas with the main markets. IDA is assisting in
agriculture and fisheries;, petroleum exploration, and power; also an extensive
program is directed toward urgent social needs, with projects in the water
supply, education and health sectors. Technical assistance and
institution-building will continue to be an integral feature of IDA projects
in PDRY.
22.      PDRY joined the Bank in 1969 and IDA in 1970, but is not a member of
IFC. Assistance to PDRY commenced in 1971. To date, IDA has had 24
operations in PDRY, for a total commitment of $168.6 million including $10.4
million of Special Fund Credits. Of this total, $39.8 million has assisted
the transport sector, $50.3 million the agriculture and fisheries sector,
$21.5 million the power and energy sector, $25.8 million the education sector,
$23.6 million the water supply sub-sector, and $7.6 million the health
sector. Project implementation in PDRY has suffered from delays and in some
cases cost overruns. Common causes of delay have included the time required
to arrange the required cofinancing, difficulties in recruiting and retaining
foreign advisors and in attracting foreign contractors, inexperience in
project mobilization, and in recent years, shortages of both skilled and
unskilled manpower. But projects are in almost all cases being properly
implemented and disbursement performance under IDA credits in PDRY, as
measured by the Bank's disbursement profiles system, continues to be
satisfactory. Lessons learned from experience with delays and cost overruns
in earlier projects are being taken into account in our follow-up projects
including the proposed project. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA
and Special Fund Credits as of September 30, 1984.
23.      Future operations are in both the preparation and study stages.
Project possibilities in agriculture, fisheries, water, transport, education
and power are under consideration. As in the recent past, the costs of future
projects are expected to be substantially higher than the funds IDA can
provide to PDRY. Therefore, efforts will be continued to encourage other
development agencies to join IDA in the financing of suitable projects. From
FY71 through December 1984, the Government and IDA have been successful in
securing through projects about $196.84 million of cofinancing from other aid
donors (UNDP $1 million; Kuwait Fund $36.4 millian; Arab Fund $87.09 million;
Islamic Development Bank $11 million, Abu Dhabi Fund $16.75 million, OPEC Fund
$26 million, IFAD $11 million, EEC $6.4 million, FAO $0.1 million, Swiss
Relief $0.1 million, WHO $0.6 million and UNICEF $0.4 million), thus helping
to increase the inflow of development aid to the country.
1/ Part II of this report is substantially the same as that in the
President's Report for the Fourth Education Project (SF-19-YDR), which was
approved by the Executive Directors on May 8, 1984.



PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Sector Background
24.      Agriculture in PDRY presently accounts for only 8 percent of GDP,
though nearly 40 percent of the labor force is employed in the sector. During
the last decade, there was almost no growth in the sector and as a
consequence, agricultural imports for a rapidly growing population increased
by more than 2.5 percent pa., and food imports alone corresponded in 1983 to
about 40 percent of GDP. Agricultural export. are practically non-existent.
O        Main crops are sorghum, wheat, cotton, fruits and vegetables and fodder crops.
Crop yields are generally low. The causes of sector stagnation are manifold.
The series of droughts and floods in recent years has been an important factor
contributing to poor sector performance (as it has been in the neighboring
Yemen Arab Republic). At least equally important is the application of
centrally planned production decisions which leave insufficient flexibility in
the sector and often inadequate incentives to producers. Lately, however, the
Government has been introducing significant liberalizing measures in key
policy areas (paras. 38 and 39). Other factors impeding growth include
weakness in farm management, insufficiency of applied research, and weak
extension services.
25.      Resources.  PDRY's scant natural resources and harsh climate severely
limit its agricultural potential. Potentially cultivable land is about
200,000 ha (less than 1 percent of the country's total land area). Out of
this area crops are grown annually on an average of about 70,000 ha.
Agriculture is almost entirely dependent upon irrigation. The amount of land
served by irregular spaLe flows ranges from a base minimum of about 40,000 ha
up to 70,000 ha annually. Well irrigation provides water for about 20,000 ha
of crops. The size of most farms is between 1 and 3 hectares, with less than
one hectare cropped per family, on the average. Although about 40 percent of
the PDRY labor force work in agriculture, as a result of substantial
out-migration to Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States and also from the rural
areas to the construction sector in Aden, the residual agricultural population
is aging and has a high ratio of women to men.
26.      Orsanization.  Following the agrarian reform and the general
restructuring of the agricultural sector in the early seventies, zgricultural
production is largely undertaken by cooperatives and state farms and, in
remote areas, by private individuals outside the cooperative sub-sector.
Excluding production of qat (a mild stimulant), about 60 percent of
agricultural value added comes from about 60 cooperatives, 20 percent from 35
state farms and 20 percent from private farms. Their councils are responsible
for drawing up annual cropping patterns for their members which are consistent
with the Government's overall sector strategy. With some notable exceptions,
many cooperatives and state farms continue to be poorly managed and are
financially weak. Private farmers not serviced by the cooperative svstem
exist in the more remote parts of the country.



- 8-
Supporting Institutions and Services
27.      Input Supply, Marketing, and Credit.  Under the PDRY economic system,
agricultural inputs are supplied only by the public sector and at prices con-
trolled by the Government. Similarly, most agricultural producrs are sold
through the cooperatives to state-owned organizations at fixed pr-.ces.
However, in the case of vegetables, farmers may, if they wish, sell up to 40
percent of ten basic items at prices not exceeding official prices by more
than 50 percent. As most means of transport are publicly owned, the amount of
direct marketing is small and limited to local sales in the production areas.
The sole credit institution for agriculture is the National Bank of Yemen
(NBY). To maintain its sound financial position, NBY follows conservative
lending policies. About half of all cooperatives are not considered
creditworthy from the NBY's standpoint and do not merit overdraft facilities.
28.      Manpower Training.  Lack of skilled manpower is a serious and wide-
spread constraint in the sector. In recent years, however, considerable
attention has been given to the training of skilled manpower in agriculture.
Important efforts include activities supported by four IDA-assisted projects.
The First Education Project established, among others, a farm machinery and
rural skills training center with a potential annual output of about 600
workers. The draft Project Performance Audit Report of February 1984
considers that it is premature to comment on the outcome of this component as
its full impact cannot yet be established. Under the Second Education Project
an agricultural training center is being established. This center will
provide two-year courses with an enrollment of about 100 skilled agricultural
workers. Further, under the Third Education Project, an agricultural
technical institute is being financed. This institute, with a five-year
secondary level program, has a planned output of 80 graduates per year from
1990, some of whom may be recruited for this project as Subject Matter
Specialists. Finally, the recently approved Fourth Education Project provides
for strengthening the Giar Agricultural Training Center by creating 150
additional places with an annual output of 265, comprising technicians,
skilled workers and extension personnel.
29.      Higher Education.  The University of Aden, under the Ministry of
Education, has a four-year program leading to a B.Sc. degree at the Faculty of
Agriculture at Lahej. As the courses offered at this institution emphasize
theory at the expense of practical instruction, the graduates are unable to
play a useful role in the country's agricultural development, unless provided
with further training. This is now under review by the Faculty.
Present Status of Research Work
30.      Research in agriculture in PDRY dates back only to 1955, when under
British rule the El Kod Research Center was established for developing
long-staple cotton for export. After Independence in 1967, it was planned
that agriculture would play a more important role in the development process
than in the past. Given the limitations on increasing the agricultural area
of the country, expansion of agricultural output was to come mainly from
increased productivity per unit of land. Following various phases of FAO/UNDP
assistance, research at the El Kod Center, which serves the low-altitude



- 9 -
areas, bas been gradually expanded, and staff, facilities and supporting
services have generally been developed in parallel. The Seiyun Research
Center in Eadrauawt was established in 1972  It serves the mid-altitude
agriculture areas of PDRY. Besides the two major research centera mentioned
above, there are 11 sub-stations.
31.      The Department of Research and Extension (DRE) of NUAR has overall
responsibility for research carried out at the El Kod and Seiyun Research
Centers as well as in the nurseries attached to these. Compared to results
achieved in previous decades, research findings in recent years have been
modest in spite of relatively high expenditures. The paucity of results stems
*       from  ill-defined research priorities and objectives, insufficient
coordination with extension, rather poorly motivated research staff, weak
organization and maagent, especially at El Rod, and inadequate direction
from DRE. Also some of the research staff are presently working on
non-research activities, such as those related to various national production
programs which supply inputs and services.
Present Status of Extension Services
32.      Agricultural extension in PDRY started in 1975 as part of the
activities of the El Kod and Seiyun Research Centers. In 1977 the Giar
Agricultural Training Center began training both farmers and lower level
employees of MAAR. In the field, three regional extension units have been
established under the Directors of Agriculture iii their respective
Governorates (Lahej, Shabwa and Hadramavt". Under the IDA-assisted projects,
small extension units were set up to support the Wadi Hadramavt I Project (in
Hadramawt Governorate), the Wadi Tuban Project (in Lahej Governorate) and more
recently the Wadi Beihan Project (in Shabwa Governorate). Three-quarters of
the 90 extension agents in PDRY belong to the extension units created under
the IDA-assisted projects. Some extension work and technical assistance were
also provided for under the IFAD-assisted Agricultural Support Services
Project, which started operations in 1980. The extension service established
under the First Wadi Hadramawt project is now operating reasonably well, while
those under the other tvo projects are still in their initial phases.
33.      A major development in the evolution of extension work was the
establishment, in 1980, of the Department for Research and Extension (DRE) in
N&AR. It laid the foundation for the establishment of a comprehensive
v       nationa. field extension service directly under the control of the DRE.  The
ain was to integrate fragmented existing activities and permit expansion in a
coordinated manner. owever, with only two professionals at DRE headquarters
(the Director and his Deputy), attention has been focussed on sustaining the
ongoing national production programs, i.e., country-wide production, plant
protection and weed control programs, with little attention paid to the
management of, and policy formulation for, extension staff.
34.      Although technological packages are available, there is generally no
explicit planning or priority setting underlying the work of extension agents,
except under the IDA-assisted projects. Regular training of extension
personnel is inadequate, and the reliance on poorly managed demonstration



- 10 -
plots brings only a small percentage of farmers into infrequent contact with
partial aspects of improved technology. Further, although women constitute
the larger proportion of the rural labor force, neither the staffing of the
service nor the methods employed are directed toward women (see para. 62).
Although a small Communications Unit (CU) in HAAR is well-organized to produce
audio-visual materials for radio and TV broadcasting, it is not sufficiently
integrated into the research/extension system to be effective.
35.      Linkage of Extension with Research.  There is no formal system for
integrating the extension service with research work beyond the opportunities
which exist for the extension units established in the IDA-assisted projects
to disseminate improved technology, provided the research findings are promptly
communicated to them. At present this is done through irregularly published
information bulletins, and casual and personal contacts between research and
extension personnel, during the training courses held in Giar Agricultural
Training Center.
Government Strategy for Agricultural Development
36.      The current Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP), 1981-85, states the
Government's major agricultural sector objectives: achieving self-sufficiency
in fruit and vegetable production, providing 60 percent to 70 percent of the
national food grain requirement, increasing agricultural exports (tobacco and
cotton), and providing raw materials for agro-industries. The Plan envisages
a major role for agricultural research, including the further development of
research sub-stations, as well as for strengthening and expanding MAAR's
modest existing extension activities.
37.      Given the present low average consumption of fruits and vegetables
relative to requirements under PDRY's climatic conditions, the first sector
objective is fully jvt-ified and attainable.  Tne food grains production
objective, on the other hand, reflects security concerns, rather than
considerations of comparative advantage. Nevertheless, as present grain
yields are low, substantial scope exists for more cost-effective production on
existing acreage. Expanded production of tobacco, cotton, and -aw materials
for agro-industries would be generally consistent with considerations of
comparative advantage. Government investment priorities are broadly
consistent with this strategy, except that they do not sufficiently provide
for the investment needs of key supporting sector functions, such as product
marketing, cooperative management, and credit expansion. Further IDA
assistance and sector discussions aim at a better balance in investment
priorities.
38.      Policies.  As in other sectors, the Government's policy is to operate
a centrally planned system, including physical production targets, price
controls for most inputs and outputs, public ownership of farm machinery and
mostly state owned marketing organizations. In response to sector stagnation
over the last de-ade, the Government has now started to introduce measures
which aim at gradually reducing central controls. IDA has made contributions
to these changes through its policy dialogue with the Government. The main
sectoral changes are: (i) gradual abandonment of use of acreage controls to



- 11 -
set production, in order to increase decision-making by farmers and to replace
directives from the top down by planning from the bottom up; (ii) substitution
of a policy of more frequent producer price adjustments throughout the year
for the earlier one of virtually constant prices irrespective of season,
supply or demand; and (iii) reduction in the subsidies on farm machinery
rental and fertilizer prices, and upward revision of water prices.
39.      In addition, in a pilot program under the Second Wadi Hadramawt
Project (Cr. 1346-YDR), the Government vill transfer the control of tractors
and pumpsets from the public entities who own them to small groups of
cooperative members working together; replace the direct marketing tax with a
land betterment tax to defray the cost of improved irrigation; and provide
long-term usufruct rights for land under perennial crops, together with rights
for the transfer of these to relatives. In order to test applicability on a
Vwder scale, similar reform measures would be introduced into the proposed
project in selected cooperatives.
IDA Lending Strategy
40.      After a decade of substantial investment in expansion of the
irrigated area vith emphasis on regional development, the IDA strategy now
aims at strengthening the key supporting services with a view to increasing
the returns on investments already made. In the context of project lending
and sector work, IDA's dialogue with the Government has helped to initiate
policy reform (See paras. 38 and 39).
41.      There are four IDA-assisted projects in the agricultural sector, all
for the development of irrigated agriculture. The First Wadi Hadremawt
Agricultural Development Project was completed in July 1982. It aimed at
increasing agricultural production on about 8,000 ha of irrigated land through
provision of extension services, inputs and feeder roads, and provided for
village water supply as well as for a feasibility study on groundwater
devr-lopment. The Project Performance Audit Report concludes that the project
hai had only a limited impact on production, i.e. gross value of output
increased by only 10 percent in real terms and the reestimated rate of return
was 8 percent, compared to an estimate of 17 percent at appraisal. However,
the Report points out that the full benefits of the project will not be
realized before completion of the Second Wadi Hadramaut ?roject.
*         42.      The Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project, the Wadi Beihan Agricultural
Development Project and the Second Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development
Project, which are still under implementation, are all similar in their
objectives, i.e., expansion of irrigated area, provision of physical
infrastructure, and establishment of extension services. Performance on these
projects is, by and large, satisfactory. Problems have been encountered on
account of staffing inadequacies end too frequent staff changes (generally of
expatriat. advisors). Coasequently, there have been delays in compliance by
Goverment with credit covenants, particularly with reference to management.
These factors apart, PDRY authorities are pragmatic and responsive to implemen-
tation issues raised by supervision missions.



- 12 -
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Project History
43.      The possibility of a research and extension project was recomended
in the Agricultural Sector Memorandum (Report No. 4006-YDR) of April 1983. An
identification mission was undertaken in July 1983 by a Bank/FAO team, and an
FAO-CP preparation mission visited PDRY in November 1983, followed by an
IDA/FAO-CP appraisal mission in March 1984. A Project Preparation Facility of
$100,000 has been made available.  Negotations were held in Washington in
January 1985. The delegation from PDRY was headed by Mr. Nasser Amer, Deputy
Minister of Agriculture, and included Messrs. Makhtry and Tarmoom. A report
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report-Agricultural Research and Extension
Project- No. 5274-YDR" dated February 1, 1985 is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. A map (IBRD 18277) of PDRY showing project
locations is attached. The main features of the project are mentioned in the
Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Objectives
44.      There are three main objectives of the project:  to strengthen the
research and extension services in PDRY; to make these more cost-effective;
and to increase the utility of research activities. The project would also
establish priority research programs. These would focus on developing those
commodities for which PDRY has a comparative advantage, or basic foods whose
production the Government seeks to expand. These include fruits and
vegetables, fodder crops, cotton, and cereals. In addition, the project would
establish linkages between research, extension and the farming community to
encourage a two-way flow of information on technological developments.
Project Description
45.      The project would achieve these objectives through programs in
research and in extension work. In research work, the project would: (i)
strengthen and focus the work of the Department for Research and Extension
(DRE) through internal reorganization and provision of technical assistance;
and (ii) strengthen and focus research activities throughout PDRY by internal
reorganization, reformulation of research programs, and provision of technical
assistance as well as training and funds to properly equip the stations. In
extension work, the project would establish an extension service in each of
the three agriculturally most prominent governorates through provision of                 g
technical assistance as well as training and funds to establish the necessary
infrastructure for extension, including expansion of the existing
Communications Unit (CU) in MAAR through the provision of both technical
assistance and funds for equipment.
Policy Environment
46.      Under this project, Government would expand the application of policy
reform measures recently initiated. Eight producer groups would be formed in
cooperatives selected on the basis of irrigation criteria, and these would be
provided with farm machinery for their own use and management by December 31,
1986 (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02(d)). In addition, the
Government confirmed its policy of extending the provision of long-term



- 13 -
usufruct rights to all cooperatives in the project area. In the context of
this and future projects, IDA's dialogue with the Government on sector
policies would be continued and a joint IDA/Government review of program and
policy implemuentation will be undertaken in 1986.
Project Area
47.      The research and extension efforts under the project will concentrate
primarily on the Governorates of Abyan, Lahej and Hadramawt (see attached Hap
IBRD 18277). The three Governorates account for about 70 percent of the
cropped area in the country. They contain about 40 cooperatives vith a total
*         membership of about 35,000 farm families, who work about 90 percent of the
cropped area of the three Governorates, with 20 state farms accounting for the
remainder.
Research Component
48.      The project aims at improving the quality and utility of agriculture
resesrch work in the three main agro-ecological regions of PDRY, namely the
coastal lowlands (El Kod), the mid-altitude areas of Hadramawt (Seiyun) and
the highlands represented by the Lawdar and Mukairas sub- stations. The
project would further attempt, through improved management and organization,
to better coordinate the research programs. These would be crop or
commodity-specific rather than discipline-oriented, and would be carried out
by multi-disciplinary teams of scientists.  Imediate problems are efficient
fertilization, appropriate plant protection packages, variety testing and
cost-effective mechanization practices. The longer-term strategy consists of
increasing factor productivity by (i) lengthening the production season; (ii)
reducing spoilage and harvest losses; (iii) addressing consumer preferences;
and (iv) testing cost-effective irrigation systems suitable for PDRY.
49.      Organization and Staffing.  In order to coordinate research
activities, the research staff would be reorganized into five
multi-disciplinary research teams (MDRT). Each MDRT would draw on the
different disciplines to create a commdity-oriented team focused on one of
five topics: horticultural crops, cereals, industrial crops, food and feed
legumes and farming systems.  The use of the MDRT concept, which works well in
the Yemen Arab Republic, makes it possible to define and to execute
well-focused and coordinated research programs. To ensure access to and
increased use of the research work of international agricultural centers,
linkages with appropriate institutions will be broadened through increased
contacts by the research stations. Funds are also included in the project for
short visits and for expanded library facilities.
50.      Technical Assistance and Training.  An internationally recruited
Senior Research Advisor (SRA), would be assigned to the project as Co-Manager
vith the Director General of Research and Extension (para. 63). He would be
stationed at El Kod Research Center, and would also be team leader of the
other internationally recruited consultants provided under the project. The
capabilities of Yemeni research workers would be further increased through
provision of short-term training. Each Yemeni national receiving a fellowship
under the project would agree to work for DRE for a period at least twice the
time of such training (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.05).



- 14 -
51.      Civil Works and Equipment.  The project would construct and furnish a
boarding house at the El Kod Research Center. Also, the present housing
facilities at Lawdar sub-station would be upgraded. The project would build
two greenhouses, one each at El Kod and Seiyun. A number of vehicles would
be added to the present pool to increase the mobility of the research staff,
and miscellaneous farm equipment would be provided.
Extension Component
52.      The stagnation of agricultural production in recent years is partly
due to weaknesses of the current extension system. The project would seek to
expand and strengthen the field-oriented extension approach initiated by the               G
Government in 1980 and pursued under the IDA-assisted projects. The new
extension system would cower farmers in the cooperatives and state farms in
the three agriculturally important Governorates (Lahej, Abyan and Hadramawt).
53.      To expand and strengthen the extension system, the project would
locate Field Extension Agents (FEA) within the villages, to be supervised by
Agricultural Extension Supervisors (AES), and provide teams of Subject Matter
Specialists (SMS) within the Extension Sections of the Governorate Units to
provide technology to support them. The operation of state farms would be
strengthened by advice from the SMS teams on specific technical subjects and
through regular training of their staff in the Giar Agricultural Training
Center. Each cooperative would appoint an AES as an adviser to its executive
council not later than December 31, 1986 (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 4.02(c)).
54.      Technical Assistance and Training.  An Extension System Advisor with
experience in the proposed type of extension system would be provided, as well
as a Communications Advisor who would set up and operate the TV and radio
equipment to train the staff in the production of rural TV and radio programs
and of printed materials.
55.      Civil Works and Equipment.  To ensure a high intensity of contacts
between the FEA and their groups of farmers, it is essential that both the FEA
and AES live within their areas of operation. About 20 houses will be
constructed in those areas where rented accommodation is not available.  The
project would provide for strengthening the Communications Unit (CU) at MAAR,
through the construction of a television studio. The extension sections in
each Governorate would be provided with appropriate audio-visual equipment and            -
funds for the purchase of suitable equipment to assist the FEA in
demonstrating improved technology.
Linkage Between Research and Extension
56.      The project will strengthen the link between the extension service
and the research establishments (para. 35) in three ways, for efficient
transfer of newly developed technology to the farmers. First, the structure
developed by the project would aim at step-by-step transmittal of information:
from the scientists in the research stations to the SMSs in the extension
service through monthly workshops; from the SMS to the AES/FEA through weekly
training sessions; and from the FEA to the cooperative farmers through regular
weekly visits. The SMS would directly advise the state farms. Second,



- 1S -
the ASS would participate in the monitorLng and evaluation of the verification
trials of the research staff. Third, the El Rad and Seiyun research stations
would each appoint research and extension coordinators whose primary tanks
would be to supply research findings to the CU for dissemination to extension
staff, and to organize the monthly vorkshops for research staff and extension
personnel which would serve as a forum for extension personnel to refer
pertinent field problems back to research staff.
Pro3ect Cost and Financing
57.      The estimated cost of the Project, including physical and price
*        contingencies adjusted to December 1984 levels, is $7.0 million with a foreign
exchange cost of $5.0 million, or 72 percent of total project costs. The
costs of imported equipment and materials reflect international market
prices. Goods and services procured under IDA-assisted projects in PDRY are
exempt from import taxes and duties. Estimates for the hiring of
internationally recruited advisers reflect the cost of recent contracts for
similar assignments elsewhere in the region. Quantities for costing of civil
works have been evaluated on the basis of semi-detailed or detailed designs
prepared by Government and have been reviewed. Physical contingencies vary
from 5 percent to 15 percent depending on the nature of the civil works,
equipment or services. Annual rates for calculating price contingencies for
local costs are 7 percent for 1985 and following years and for foreign costs
8.0 percent, 9.0 percent, 7.5 percent and 6.0 percent, respectively for the
years 1985 through 1988 and constant thereafter. Total contingencies,
physical and price, are 23 percent of base cost.
58.      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 5.1 million (equivalent to $5.0
million) would be on standard IDA terms and would finance 72 percent of the
total cost, including all of the foreign exchange cost, except for those
included in incremental operating cost to be financed by the Borrower, and
about $0.5 million of local cost of civil works and of equipment and
vehicles. A Project Preparation Facility advance of $100,000 has been made
available, to expedite the appointment of the Senior Research Advisor. The
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen as the Borrower would contribute the
balance, $2.0 million, or 28 percent of the total project cost.



- 16 -
Procurement
59.      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below;
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS 21
(Ust million)
Procurement Method
Project Element                 ICB      LCB      LIT     Other      Total Cost
Civil Works                     -        1.0       --       0.2         1.2
-      (1.0)      -                   (1.0)
Vehicles/Equipment/Supplies    0.7       0.3      1.0                   2.0
(0.7)    (0.3)    (1.0)                 (2.0)
Technical Assistance  /          -        -        -         1.1        1.1
-  -     -       (1.1)       (1.1)
Training                         - _                         0.9        0.9
-        -         -       (0.9)      (0.9)
Incremental Staff &             -         -        -        1.8         1.8
Operating Costs
Total                        0.7      1.3      1.0       4.0         7.0
(0.7)    (1.3)    (1.0)     (2.0)       (5.0)
I/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Credit.
2/ Including PPF advance of $100,000.
Project civil works ($1.2 million) will consist mainly of housing for
extension officers scattered throughout three governorates and the erection of
a boarding house in El Kod and greenhouses in El Kod and Seiyun. These works
are unlikely to be of interest to foreign bidders and contracts will be
awarded by Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures in accordance with the
current practices of the Government acceptable to IDA. Suitable local
construction firms exist in sufficient numbers to ensure adequate
competition. To benefit from standardization, the modest numbers of
IDA-financed vehicles, farm machinery and motorcycles (about $1.0 million)
will be procured through Limited International Tendering (LIT). Other
equipment and supplies worth about $0.7 million will be grouped, to the extent
feasible, in packages of $50,000 or more in order to increase competition in
bidding. These will be awarded on the basis of International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. Small
items worth less than 10,000, which cannot be grouped into packages of
$50,000 or more and which are generally locally available, will be awarded by
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures in accordance with practices of
Government acceptable to IDA. These will amount to about $0.3 million in the
aggregate. The project would finance technical assistance at an estimated
cost of $1.1 million for lcng-term and short-term consultants. All
consultants would be hired in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.03). In addition,
the project would finance about 380 man/months of training outside PDRY, at a
total estimated cost of about $0.9 million. Assurances have been given that
such training would be arranged by DRE at institutions and in accordance with
a program acceptable to IDA (Development Credit Agreement Section 3.05(a)).



- 17 -
60.      Contract Review.  About 75 bidding packages and contracts are
expected for project procurement of goods and civil works ($3.0 million).
Most of these will be for equipm_nt and will be below $100,000 in sise because
of the multitude of equipment items. Most of the procurement will be handled
by agencies who have implemented other IDA-assisted projects and which are
familiar with Bank procurement procedures. A prior review threshold of
$50,000 will be used, which should result in review of about 5 percent of the
bidding packages comprising about 20 percent of the credit amount (Development
Credit Agreement, Schedule 4, para. C.1.(a)).
Disbursement
61.      Disbursement of the proposed IDA credit of $5.0 million will extend
over six years, starting July 1985. Disbursements would be made on the basis
of: (i) 85 percent of all expezditures on civil works; (ii) 100 percent of
foreign exchange expenditures and 85 percent of local costs on equipment,
vehicles, and materials cost; (iii) 100 percent of consultancy cost; and
(iv) 100 percent of overseas training cost and technical assistance, including
the Project Preparation Facility advance of $100,000. Disbursements will be
made against normal documentation. A revolving fund corresponding to $400,000
would be established by opening a special account (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 2.02(b) and Schedule 3). Such a fund would expedite the
processing of withdrawal requests and would also avoid tying up foreign
exchange resources for eligible disbursements while the latter are being
processed by IDA.
Role of Women
62.      Because of large-scale out-migration of adult males, women now
constitute the majority of the family labor force in agriculture (reliable
statistics are not available). Their wages in agriculture are typically
between one-third and one-half of those of male labor. The involvement of
women in the decision-making process concerning the family holding is very
limited, as is their position in the management of agricultural enterprises.
It is now recognized by MAAR in general and the extension services in
particular, that the extension activities and methods must reflect the impor-
tance of women in rural society. However, it is nearly impossible to attract
rural women to work in the field extension service, while on the other hand
the employment of urban women in the countryside has proven to be virtually
unacceptable. The project would continue to endeavor to train rural women for
the extension service but such a structural change is a long process. Over
the medium term, therefore, the project would convey extension information
destined for rural women primarily through special radio and television
programs. An evaluation of the impact of the project on women in the
agricultural sector of the project area will be undertaken as part of the
annual evaluations to be coumissioned by MAAR (para. 69).
Project Implementation
63.      The project would be implemented through the Department of Research
and Extension in MAAR, which integrates the two primary aspects of the project
at the higher levels. Existing project-based extension activities would be
integrated under the DRE not later than December 31, 1985 (Development Credit



- 18 -
Agreement, Section 4.02 (a)). The Director of DRE would be the project
manager, because the two functions are virtually identical and the staff is
small. He would be supported by a co-manager, an expatriate Senior Research
Advisor (SRA) who would provide the research management. Three additional
expatriate advisors for extension, communications, and agricultural economics
would provide further managerial and professional support. The Directors of
the Research Centers in El Kod and Seiyun would be responsible for the
management of their respective stations, assisted by the SRA.  Responsibility
for all extension activities and training of extension workers would be
delegated by the Director of DRE to his Deputy Director for Extension and
Training.  The latter would be equally responsible for ensuring close
collaboration with the existing Communications Unit in MAAR. In the execution
of these tasks, he would be assisted by two of the expatriate advisors: one
for extension and one for communications. The appointment of a Deputy
Director for Extension and Training in DRE, of a Director of the El Kod
Institute, Heads of Extension in the Governorates of Lahej and Abyan and
employment of the SRA would be conditions of credit effectiveness (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 5.01). The Head of Extension in Hadramawt
Governorate has already been appointed. The daily operation of the Giar
Agricultural Training Center would be entirely delegated by DRE to the
Director of that center.
64.      An Agricultural Research and Extension Council (AREC) to advise on
policies and priorities would be established no later than December 31, 1985
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02(b)). It would comprise DRE senior
staff (headquarters and field) and the directors of most other departments of
MAAR which supervise cooperatives and state farms, together with
representatives of the agencies supplying input or marketing services to the
farming community.
65.      An Agricultural Research and Extension Committee to help implement
and coordinate the directives given by the PREC, would be established by the
Government no later than December 31, 1985 (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.02). It would be headed by the Director of DRE and include DRE's
Deputy Directors, the Directors of the El-Kod and Seiyun Research Institute,
and the Heads of the extension services in the Governorates of Lahej, Abyan
and Hadramawt.
66.      The project would appoint an internationally recruited firm or
organization, acceptable to IDA, to provide the international staff,
administer the overseas training programs, and purchase specialized
equipment.  The signature on the contract between the Government and the
organization would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 5.01(b)). The project would contain a substantial program
for overseas training. MHAAR would arrange with the Ministry of Construction
for design, contract administration and supervision of the civil works
component. These would be executed by local contractors. The Government
would cause the Central Organization for Contract and Audit to carry out
annual audits, and MAAR would forward to IDA certified copies of project
accounts as well as an annual audit report no later than nine months after the
end of each fiscal year (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.01(c)).



- 19 -
Incremental Operating coats
67.      Incremental operating costs over the project period would amount to
about $1.8 million. The Government would continue to finance ongoing
recurrent costs for research and extension, as well as include the incremental
operating costs of the project in its future annual budget allocations
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.03(c)). It is estimated that the
project would cause annual recurrent expenditure for research and extension to
be about $600,000/year above the present level (1984 prices).
Monitoring and Evaluation
68.      The overall periodic monitoring of the research and extension
components of this project would provide a basis for shifting the focus of
annual programs. It would not be limited to the technical aspects but include
the economic impact as well, in order to enhance the cost effectiveness of
these activities. For this purpose, the project would provide for an
agricultural economics advisor to assist his counterparts in undertaking the
required analyses.
69.      Determining the efficiency of the research component would call for
annual review and evaluation, while impact analysis of the extension component
would be on a current basis, using specific indicators. Governorate Directors
would submit semi-annual progress reports on research and eztension work to
the Director of DRE. The DRE would produce annual reports (by September 30 of
each year)as well as semi-annual statements of plans (by March 31 and
September 30 of each year) that would include revisions of research and
extensiou objectives and proposals for redirecting or initiating research and
extension programs (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.06(b)(iii)). On
the basis of these reports and in conjunction with regular supervision work,
IDA would annually review the ongoing research and extension program. An
annual evaluation of research and extension activities funded under the
project would be commissioned by MUAR and conducted by an internationally
recruited team of two scientists during the course of the project (to be
forwarded to IDA by September 30 of each year beginning in 1986 (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.06(d)).
Benefits
70.      The proposed project would establish a firm foundation for technical
recommendations derived from a well-directed program for applied rebearch.
The extension component would transfer such recommendations to the farming
community, while at the same time referring producers' problems back to the
researchers. It is expected that with this project additional technology
packages would be developed for grains, fruits, vegetables, fodder crops and
industrial crops. The benefits from such improvements are expected to accrue
eventually to about 35,000 farming families, or about 70 percent of the
nation's farming population.



- 20 -
Risks
71.      There is a risk that the research program will not correspond to the
needs of the farmers and that research results will not be adequately conveyed
to them. To minimize these risks, the regional research centers will work on
a commodity-oriented basis, with the SMS to serve as the link between research
and extension in the various Governorates. Also, overall responsibility for
research and extension will be unified, at both the Governorate and the
national level. To ensure a supply of well-qualified SKS, provision for their
early training is included in the project.
72.      A further risk stems from the rigidities in the institutional and
policy framework of the economy in general, which are particularly evident in
the agricultural sector. These constraints inhibit farmers' responsiveness to
change. In recent years, however, the Government has considered it
appropriate to initiate measures aimed at a gradual reform of parts of the
sector. Further progress in this direction is expected as a result of the
continuing dialogue between IDA and the Government in the context of this and
future projects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen and the Association and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The conditions for effectiveness are Wis appointment of a Deputy-
Director for Extension and Training in DRE, a Director of the El Kod Institute
and Head of Extension in Lahej and Abyan Governorates; (ii) employment of a
Senior Research Adviser; and (iii) signature on a contract between Government
and an internationally recruited firm or organization which would provide the
consultants and administer the training program.
74.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.      1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 19, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-21-                                                       ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
allW,~ ~~m                               (o       lmlf STMAS
Mal   l i.?o    husu*-.           * . AFCA G    3*3 U       LA. ANZC*   CAR
an a       im .    q)
TOTAL                                 333.0      3130       3313.0
AOICuLnA                              91.3        93.4       13.*
P N  t121*U                                 ..                 470.0             Ud11.&                  321.1
_imuu - gem
,(31LORANS Or OIL UQIALI)           3724.0       310-0    791.0               423.1                     335.5
MuA1U  m   VIUL UYAUIZ
POPUULATZO.NWTD-IM IIUI )            1201.0      1417.0   19.7.0
M PULATt0   01 oF  TOTL               21.0        12-1      31.1               4.2                       e.s
POPUAUTIO      UIU
PoIIUTuOI 113     000 to n   *  ILL) 
ISTTIOAflOU    U P0U1AII uUM                               12.5
POPUATIAON  UlUI                                            1.9                  .
PoPUUSTIOu umsu
M  s. M.                             3.6         4.5       5.7               36.3                      35.1
M3 SQ.  . A41m. LA,                t3.1        ;..2      20.4              441.7                      92.4
FOPIUIATZOU *AN 3tOUCU3  C9)
0-14 no                             ".         45.4      45.5               43.4                      39.1
LS-64 US                            52.4        31.9      51-.               5331                      56.0
65 *80*ARM                            .9         1.6       2.3                3.3                       4.1
rPoPnwAIO0 GUM    RATE (u )
TOIAL                                2.0         2.1        2.2                2.3                      2.4
Uam                                  6.0        31.        3-1                6.5                      316
C8UD2 UON3   Am3 (M  i?1113)           50.4       41.6      47.6                40.4                      31.5
cR1  02r*1  RAT  cmi 3003)            23.3        24.2      19.0                11-3                      3.1
C0O3s REPROUCTION 3un1                 1.4         3.4       1.                 2.3                       2.0
7411.Y PLAIuI
OCC UP03. ANNUAL (30U3)
1u1  t1 or CxU      H10R3)             ..         ..        ..               22.2                      40.3
Po -  An DUU
INDEX Of WOOD 300. P31 CAPITA
1199-71 lOO)                        W100.0        32.0      92.0               37.3                     114.3
m  CAPITA 8ms1. of
CALO.I- s (s or EQUIRMNKTS)         31.0        91.0      30.0              L10.6                     110.6
IOTEINS (CRAMS PU DAY)              49.0        53.0      53.0               70.1                      67.3
or UKICH ANIMAL AND PULSZ        1U.0         16.0      24.0 /d            17.3                      34.1
CKILD (ACES t-4) D01ATH RATZ          59.4        "4.4      26.0               14.6                       5.7
HEALTH
LIFE ID   T. AT 3IRTH C11*1S1         36.0        40.4      46.0               57.5                      64.7
11N*A? H   . uzAT  (nPi THO0M)       209.5       177.4    140.0               101.5                      60.6
ACCESS TOI SANE VAlES CIPOP)
TOaL                                  ..          ..      24.0 to            53.7                       65.4
Ulm                                   ..          ..      30.0 7'            84.5                      73.1
SIJIAL                                ..          ..       5.0 r3.4                                    44.2
ACCESS TO ZXCUA DISPOSAL
CZ or POPULATION)
ITOTAL                                ..          ..        ..                 ..                      52.9
1133*1                                ..          ..        ..                 ..                      67.0
W                                     ..          ..        ..                 ..                      24.5
POWLION Pt msiciA                  13270.0    36260.0    7200.0              *S35.1                    1917.7
POP. PI OMEN P                          ..          ..     30.0              1331.t                     135.3
PaP. PU HOSPiTAL ME
TOTAL                              1410.0      11O.0 g  60.0 j              632.9                     367.2
UlmI                               470.0 h        ..     320.0 J            545.5                     411.5
RtRAL                            89900.0 7O       ..   *400.0              2513.5                    2636.3
A13ISSIS PER HOSPITAL SZD               ..          ..      13.3 2             26.2                      27.3
AVEACGE SIZE OF HOUS5HOLO
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
1133*                                 ....                  ....
URAL                                  ..          ..        .
AVUACE N0. Or PnSONSIlO
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
wAN                                   ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..         .
ACCSS TO ELECT. (C OF DVELLINCS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..      22.0  I            46.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..       17.6               1..
aRURL                                 L..                   .6  .            16.1                        .



- 22 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
T1M1  P.D.L.           -SOCUL IDICATOR  DATA SWT
nun3. 1.D..                         IFRC  CROUV  (ECID A             E 
MOST                     (OST  RCENT ESA)            -
CB" Lk           #IDDIE IDCOMI           MIDDE   c
m96        1w70L! ItuSTDIATLb    N. AnICA & HID  ST        LAT. AMEILCA  CAR
ADJUSTID UNROUIU? RATIO
IAMMt  TOTL                         U1.0       57.0      64.0               .8.3                    LS0.4
NALS                     20.0       91.0      94.0              102.5                    106.3
FEmA                      5.0       23.0      34.0               73.6                    104.5
SCMUDAT: TOTAL                       5.0       10.0      16.0              43.0                      43.2
MALI                      6.0        16.0      O.0               52.3                     42.3
PUaM                      2.0        4.0      11.0               33.0                     44.5
VOCATEONAL (I OF SECONDAME)           5.0         4.5      10.2              *0.3                      33.6
rpuWI-TEACUS   *1
niwas                               29.0       31.0      25.0              30.3                      30.1
S&GONDARY                          21.0        20.0      16.0               Z3.1                     1S.8
ADULT LTUACS RAT  (I)                   ..       27.1 /k  53.0               43.5                      79.5
PASSEDC      CARS/TUwUSAD  POI        7.8         6.6       8.4              L7.8                      46.0
ADIO AREVERS/TIOUSM  POP             49.7        52.1      53.8             138.8                     22S.6
TV UZIIVhhSfIOWIJ5AD PM0               2.5 /1    14.0      18.8              46.1                     107.2
UUIISaIh  CDA1LT GENERA
I1NUREST) CIRC.ATIOU
PI TUOUSAD POPULATION                 ..        1.0       6.6 /a           31.2                      63.5
CIam AIUAL ATFANICIITA                 ..         2.3       3.2 Td            1.7                       2.8
TOTAL TADR FORCE (T30U3)             330.0      392.0    478.0
1ff11. (ZICUDT                      4.0         4.9       5.9              10.8                      23.2
AGRCULTU  CPERCE)                  70.0        65.0      45.0              42.4                      31.5
LZUUSTRI (PCR)                      15.0       17.0      15.0              27.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCE)
TOTAL                               27.3       26.2      24.4               26.2                     32.2
.ALE                                52.0       49.9      46.5               46.4                     49.3
PEMIZ                               2.2         2.5       2.8               5.8                      15.2
ECQNWlIC DUEDENCY RATIO                1.7        1.8       2.0               1.8                       1.4
ZVME  011s10_0
PhRCEN OF PRLIVATE KEmCma
RCZIV2D XS
hUEmwS?  OF0 EGUIEMOLDS               ..
IIEST 2S020  HOUSEOlWDS               ..         ..        .                  ..
LOVGS? ZOZ oF UOUSIOS                 ..         ..        ...
LOS       0 or .USOLDS                ..         ..
-SDA ASSOWUTZ POVUIT LEcON
LEVEL (USS PE CAPITA)
UR                                   ..          ..        ..              274.8                    288.2
RURAL                                ..          ..    140.0              177.2                     184.0
ESID9AXED UXATIV POVERTY INC=I
LEVEL (US$ PIQ CAPITA)
URA8N                                 ..         ..      90.0 /02.6                                 522.8
RURAL                                ..          ..      87.0             284.9                     37Z.4
ESTMATED MOP. SUM ASOLE
POVEM  incS3 LIV  (X)
URDA                                 ..          ..        .
RmUL                                                     20.0 /j
NOr AVAfL.AILE
HOT APPLICAJLE
NOS    U ~  ~        ~      ~        NOE
N 0 T E S
/a  The group eragye for each Indicator are populatlon-weghted ariteetlc means. Coversge of countries amng the
indicutor depedn an availability of data and Is not uniform.
lb   Unlae otherhisie noted, -Data for 1960 refer co any year between 1959 and 1961; -Dta for 1970 between 1969 and
1971; and dacc for -Host Reent E.tI.te between 1980 and 1982.
/c  *irth and doeth raet" are crude eotlates. The natural ract of Increaea docs not agree vith observed population
growtb rate; /d 1977; /a 1976; If 1968; A 1978; /h 1962; /l 1975; a Percent of population; /k Ages 10 and
over. 1973 dst8   /1 196  U- 197S
JUNE. 1984



- 23 -AliNEX I
Page 3 of S
I-23
.LrI-I  - M                                     ftt.eese   -   te.   5C
-   -   e        a       S.  C                  aa~~~~~~N -U" ases               tfl- t.       .L                  I-
-eaft?                                t     a_       O *_
,        -t    ,    a   -_               X_    _ S   ___ _   -tee aLa..t _U. 5s  _  __e _                                -
eaCe.L    Ta C   eaCts    t C           -      ntaa   bet~   M        atSeS            I           -L-- -           a:,-        -hn.  --ati 
-   -   a  Let  tSr-   tatZr                "   i-t  tet         eT -                   -t         tle       - Ca           -a CC        Z
_-LLL . .                          -    S    t - ea i-i        - _ i  sf a  . _              - dt   -     _ _ __    a                  t
fl _g_        _ ..3                                                                       tem     a      g.tttat - te        e dst      - Oc-...uu
aT_  -_ Cat C5s           _C         SC        C  tal         -. S__             _         ae            LtSS  fe_r a e    t _*._.t -_C      t   .e _t
_,fflr _  __    .     __ - _ta            -     t _ r   Cl._ _ tat <  .    ,_     t_tel _
M1___ _- t_   
2..-    2   Ct                            2_sase  __   _an   O    .                                                         t_   C_ _ew! _-f  latao _t _ tre
L                                 -I,I                   -Itn_ - _ _                       r         _            -  t  .et _ _                S      t
.5<-_ ;,Ctf~                                                                              -| -  1.        Catl.  teabSae _e r_.  _eltt  _   w
r f    __   rI-         ---it- - -   te. .                                                                                         . _  lat _        C
eniw   We Ct7   -            -      e.Sai                     Ctc.S      a~~~~~~M-1  - - gratpted       *szs I    -aeei
_~ _St        _A5at~ta.   ee1    weaget C   C  te-. Cleat                      statat.        t. atter.. etti CS         n  agatef        .    .....C
_tt                            tSw-   _ - .5         _e _       t  .e I.                                                                                   - Set_  _  .   t   t .
_ _ t Wr. C -    _1                                     __                           _          s    .  e         t  .:_- -1?   . _      aIe-O          ts    o -
e.sC  teartarete                          t . -  s-
iat.       *tea   r-_.-      .se - 0- -   e _      t Lff   _ _ .   _ C  -eI
-                                                                                     * i           -       _  _.  *_a  _    l,-  t-e
.4t   g a  -A        set_?  -         "I-a   -02 Itat!ym a                                   t   sae-CCC-   et ett Ct
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  _                                                                              tr:
esra  dtite  -   _                    -  asitt       etit           .                        tie, Ce ste   _ taCe            SC.C5erla
-      -                                    a I-. tI- -   r    __  D        *       :                 Cr    tt r
e,t.te  _gs.t?tr                                                                      t__   __r    _e    t-_ .5 -r ret   _    _ -   _ea r                   -w
fI   -"  -   lift .s-; I-W  S-ere -4q   en  a 'eI.eA -C  ae!CaSd-s                                                                  S
_-f_         r   C-t     C   a_:   .tet   C_  _ Uttit                           C            !t_t tttt eLt c- itw eal      -ge
D t__w    _     __Db _
Kate           Si_  atSte  CP Mt t                .51  C5*e  et            r        _ Seee  Sttrttfl   reetr_ edse:twet - U. ..    -*              , r_e  -
-   m.tea_!  -_ r-e  it'  z~n                ttete-s 71.5                                 tsIz t-rt .it  Caets ee      s *-  Stte    _t __
i-       Ieie  efasie                      
uI  Mas.       -      -t,  -      I D-atea   -     a- a                  sase
=t     et  - - Sttit          Cattl.  t_S  fee  _.eS          .ere                  ta-C r      e: e_at__ ..       Xt_r_ :
_s_~-IC                T        r        _l-*t    ettt                   ~         lr. oa       - See.   t          .e- -tt-ae.ea               tt
y~  -   _t i l    _ *e   at ee.                 _! r                                    Stan.atet            stta   eenl   ei:_ Cit'-' ' t;e. S-=St
-~~~~~~~ -we  - t_  trs _teet 1 t~    aSet t                 t.          r        st_e  tIt .ttg     atCt~etS                    eet  a
-           S_ atte   -  et t   SZaS   __              C Se.   ,sta                      Srt -    meSa  -_ tzeSa  - a    _T _O        a c-_a   S.
pm- ze tar .eWe at    ............. - festte  rte _s t-e _  eiaee_ _:  a..?.. .        ...........           .......  am a    t: aeS _  _-  Sfet   ftS tt
-    _  Se   _  r_taeetbe   elSS  _:ar DC aeteet te                                              1    .'           *--   teeeI 
-'F-_- a   _.aSt_ _:_ Ca    e                        *_ as tatt  -~ *                  tetS.  ae. S.  t.eeea   .eeS- 5.-[.d     taCt
--e  _r        ._    r_ZS   t        - r_Iaaa   S.t _t              t                 *      5t  - _    _sS   _  _a                S_ StS5.
-   -. ' 0rr-. - bef     Sat   _t _e       beta._ _le  TatR.1art                                       t
,_      :_e S. Itt                                                                                     _ iCe t.ea  _52   _ta-r  _at        * _ten  *. *_eae te(Se.5C  
Tare           Vttt          - Sae   -* ___.   .rttte    rSC                            - retet  -__z fle  St           at           iaSC
at    C reo _1seltID-en t*e*_* - OD_tw  fle  aut  a leS_ _ ,-
ttea    CrC _    aCt  1-ere  -w _e  _  aCt _      C _   ae eq_                                   te te_ tee  ge  -  t C   et             tatt  ainl__
s-letS te    IE-s. teeo-te   C  ea,C.                                                     a:.es  .te1 * tte __ e_e  _C_ S_            _      _eea         s
-.    Urea       Ce' tC     --_ Q_ iCe teS  _et              Casa-C    D  Se: t-et?    eC.tae  _re  CS  _ ee ta _ets
* _ Wa rre  leer _a     :-              __   ge_  Sa  -as                 _            F      .e 'te               eee,   - Ft teer  a Ca ee              D
_-ttS ' 1 . eS?fl. _  1_: data                                                           _.1te  _11t _tat tWC               _ ta_ eaas  a e st5 _este
C      __  h_rtt_     mttr  _t    e tla            eSa   Stt S                         CeeS.   tte?I_ate  r_   aC-it~te   -                  e__ r_ _r_
fatetts.      zsuit  DS- be:-e      erte. ___i  __ ts. CaSt. Cre ata%et. _eriEtea  f-:e1_  i ._1. tedl -< -_ gegla_ _
=CCI  ettb   -  -_tl               _Sta         -T_ _ee  at    s __ _ _e                  Ce _  ~d_e Ret 5? _t   _t SeC   C ts_ c _
as ngfl-aaC  sette        _   attn  _s wetst Sate, PrSSe_                              Sty  _Ie  iCevt  -z    1-te   .r  _ee -  _             e _        r
CSa P      w r- Cee r_eegw  asl Ceeeye   - eeeet  _eC r_te                       _         t   ate..
es        r_r flh.                                                                                   I-etei:  . Sate _  S_: dt
_ee  gr_-te  a rU SC sdtSC                 _cr_r.e rr_t        ,_  C         _            ltet__   e.___It - __C fee  Se r_l  trr. Igeesa  _S 
CC       -  -          _ajs      tate    O_eSr_ e.__ getr           Ste                 ttat_ _  mrten  eC Ttee  5r fefla. LIS. S11  C   _St deS
_ m_  ts_    as  wR   _tt  _0 edt!. C  o e Crat  (e.g.                              . s err f_e        -  _dt  rre  cc ate.. vselseas             eeleat   _
c__  C  t. re rer ace_.  __beSe  set_ea  .5 _ea  ewes ta                              etae1trtrt      er_  C  _   _ ee r_       s mattel tI_ fte: eWe.. 1
_      _ ta  treW   att  gale  CWr         . :7155*. ia.  _  Itt                          U:-   dat.
v                  ar_ 1_    r  Er.               r__1 __               rrW -Dr ret.ete r__                                taCltee_1  - reSet  Ce~ t    r 5ta     _ Vattt tte 
~~~~~t __Se  e.gat.a_ reSt. r_ete  as reattesee  -_a_te                                                  ernet  ae   re te            -_  ee.t. lat..     mIt SraC  cme,at
-_ele  _ie  S-_  _. reste  CrX   _m S_   dtett t   S                . _. _  _         r_. I_r.   rta  it Sa            -         _._r_pr
Celt         Leete  atre     eeetea  ceeae  S.d. atte _1_:                                  Cue 01  meert   trS            St 
-    S    CCCCdt    e                r. rs fbe  _r_ defta  -  __e   _a                   geree   . e         ge_et  geeee  It gter. C  Cetz tO gttw
_ea  geee. as __tr :e  at           i. -   rDl . tersa   **ee -W1-                      _'  c_r t
e_a   _  _-e team     *r_  Xef *_1_ see       1-s e _e  I_Ie    C                       r-t- ar_ Fe  Selele  ae.r   Dr_ *te  _tgtb    tn ast geatit *_ae   C
Fterd Cit tat  tr: tatt.: i.                                                 _  teS      U  .  eIr.t_tt   5t  t.t    Saee  rSI  eatw  rete) __  et C_
, teete etelA.  ?. fe  attC     eel. ~-  Seett  regt :ef  _t SC                     eS.ee __efl otee _-_ t S_    S      estr.Sr   i     
*r rm _   esr_. -agttm    i r-te  _r ewe  Cat at  dettte                                 Sta  ea_e ea eeee    es _te  tre  -tId xas .r    g,m
eaneetCe  e _-         ea1 _tf rr.   t , IO  31_    C r  t date,  _es.   S_t  1_etsee.Ce.Sntt   el     a                                                 i
ht_P ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ia   airt _aat r _r lt.  tea  as ICeS. eer_                                   asi _f
te_    CtstS Ce  Tr_ wrat   14  _t dee cC tteee                   r
set         r_C  LC  t_C er_te DC, _*?  C  ICr ata  r*
-eCC   Cat aft__ ewe tes _fttt    tb.tCS                                                                                          SSe
_  e. as  s          it    we S_t  _t r.e _  _ r;-               tags _
_este   r_r_iOt  5CIgeCa 



- 24 -
Y:  UC 
GO at  mt c-                 95D    10
am= Du.tic Iwuto             467     49
am" J1t5ma swiw              23i    26
E;t of rob   %IS             111      12     AuuzuL Rats of  1uth ()
Ic   p of  dsa md ES         M5      87     ,     (CAt      C
is976/8i
GDP at    c    t             53      100              4
ofdih:
pgicatawe & Fi*ezim         641.    12              0
I=w7io                                             11 
c    'uczctiai              83      15             10
frauprt                     57      11             -3
ioe=tSivics                155     29              12
NDER*r  EDAK
inudlli zs Yi Dimrs)    1974175   1975Y   1976  1977    1978   1979    18    1                1
Ta receipts                    23.6    16.9      32.1   43.4    56.0   68.0   107.2   124.8    137
O 4zez avadizues,            27.6    25.6      39.2   47.4    61.4   76.2   - 96.0   137.5    142
OwreE deficit                -4.0    -8.7      -7.1   -4.0    -5.4   -8.2    U.2   -12.7    -5
De-egap cpeuit.e             19.6    18.9      39.2   573    59.7   9.0    74.2   105.1    137
11U deficit                 -23.6   -27.6   -46.3  -61.3   -65.1  -0.2  -63.0  -117.8  -14a
Z1E!5-_fru BCirDg ysty5m   10.4    12.5        15.6   18.5    13.2   27.6    19.0    55.7       65
ctdu1 Fiing                  13.2    15.1      30.7   42.8    51.9   3.6    44.0    6.1         77
MM, G = AND :Ia
(Y.D. million-, e  period)              1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  19)
lfy ad  s                              55      67    98   110   168   217   286   31    383
Bkcredit to G7verinz                   24      37    81    72    87   110   127   151   216
PBc credit to GarIQrer  OPPSectox3/    19     24    31    49    59    61    98   106   IM
Irree in Z
cisunw        c                        24      12     4     5      6    1    10      4      8
l/ 7be fiwal yew m  .April - Mirth 31 unti1Mrh 31, 1975 wben it bee-
April 1 - De r 31, 1975 and treafter is an a calend  year basis
21 IwluIes ares ad demlopIuut reve_  from damtic  crces andg
of piblic e:epis.
31 Mostly public secor aenies.



Ii~~~~~~ U                                  :::   ::W8l 1QiS  a  1
4     @|                       zu2S1818*|9|
g   i $  i1$| I I#8IEMi *      1
8   X   J%J1gg1  1a;8  i A    1
N      I           I 1SEG1,INW    I   1#
p  p g1iS,ip  eSr'g  i  iu1S 



- 26
TM so  w BA MOQSr
Di 7; PE'S  MMIU=  REPMc Cf S
Statmnt of Mt Omdits 8/
Accn
(As of Sepc.zber 30  198k)
(aSa CcaOreAtiQwn)
Ctedit!                                                        MIUdisbwured
NO.         Year   B w                                        S       _          $    SIR
SNe  cZedits fluy disb sed                                    37.69
768-1        1978     FlY      Wadi DA=   :ic. Proj           5.20               0.8
Z9- NM       1978              Ib *n I                        5.00               1.0
865-M        1978  EMY          Mcation II                    4.00               0.7
93Z- MR      1979     PM       Fisheries II                  10.00              2.0
D038- MR      1980     PIRY     ASd Water Supply              13.20              3.8
1050-YR       198D0             Petroleu Dw. Assistace         9.00              0.2
144- D        1981      mY      miowys in                              10.3              1.7
U145- iR      L981     H!       'Wadi Beiban Agric. Proj.               6.6              3.8
1159- Y       1981     EY       Al Mmlla Water Suply                    2.9              1.4
12- =         19N1     PY       Educatim  III                           5.3              4.8
1268- MR      198      FIY        k  II                                 6.8              6.2
1274- M      198       PM       Fisheries m                             5.4              5.2
1295- 'YDR   1983      B!       Roads Flood   3     _trt                6.4              0.2
L34- MR      L983      PM       Wadi H      tP lgr. U                   8.3              7.5
1377- YR     1983               lbU Halth Developnt                     7.0              6.5
1418- M      198(1              Seiywater Spy                           6.5              62
1985     FIR!     Educatiax IV -                          9.9              9.9
Total                                  84.09 b/ 75.4 b/   8.5   53.4
of itch has been repaid                  .17
Total no  beld by Mk                   83.% bl 75.4
Total urdisbursed                                         8.5   53.4
a/ fle status of the projets listed above is described in a separate report m aal Ba*k/ID
finwx:ed project. in exeution, tihi is updated trice yewly and circulated to the Executive
Director on April 30 anx Octdoer 31.
b/ Exluduig  _edme adju,      ts.
c/ This is an M  Special Fuxl credit.



- 27 -                   ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S DEKOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YENEN
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare       8 months (July 1983 to
the project                            February 1984)
(b)  Agency which prepared the project      FAD/CP
(c)  First presentation to the Bank         July 1983
Cd) Appraisal mission                       March/April 1984
(e) Date of negotiations                    January 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness          June 30, 1985
Section II Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
(a) The appointment of a Deputy Director for Extension and Training in
DRE, a Director of the El Kod Institute and Heads of Extension in the
Governorates of Lahej and Abyan in consultation with IDA (para. 63);
(b) Employment of the Senior Research Advisor (para. 63); and
Cc)  The signature on a contract between Government and an internationally
recruited firm or organization which would provide the consultants
and administer the training program (para. 66).
2. Measures to be Taken by the Borrower Include:
(a) Government would implement certain reform measures in selected
cooperatives no later than December 31, 1986 (para. 46);
(b) Government and IDA would review sector policy and program
implementation in 1986 (para. 46).
(c) Each cooperative in the Governorates of Abyan, Hadramawt and Lahej
would appoint an Agricultural Extension Supervisor as an advisor on
its executive council, not later than December 31, 1986 (para. 53);



- 28 -                 ANEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) The existing project-based extension gactivities would be integrated
under the ME, not later than December 31, 1985 (para. 63);
Ce) The Government would establish an Agricultural Research and Extension
Council no later thsa December 31, 19b6 (para. 64);
(f) The Government vould establish an Agricultural Research and Extension
Committee no later than December 31, 1985 (para. 65);
(g)  DUE's annual reports would be forwarded to IDA not later than
September 30 of each year; semi-annual statements of research and
extension plans not later than March 31 and September 30 of each year
(para. 69); and
(h) An annual project review and evaluation would be commissioned by MAAR
to be undertaken by consultants and the first report thereon would be
forwarded for comments to IDA not later than September 30, 1986
(para. 69).



453v                                          48'
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
PROJECT FEATURES
Main Agricultural Areas    ,            ELEVATIONS
A   Project Research Stations             - 2000 meters
EXISTING FEATURES                       1000                           /
o   SeEected Towns and Villages             200
*   Governorate Capitals                     0
6*  QNational Capitol                                                /
Airports                                                        /\y            A 
4.  Ports
Primcary Roads
Secondary Roads                                          /
Tracks                                                 /
={   Wadis                                                                   AADRa
Governorate Bounanries                            .#lollh        f
. _ International Boundcries                        /                    :     / -
i, '
YE M E N                                           ,           \-
-15                           Al Ayn "'"                         t_
A R A B                          4-A A 8YW A
-% Nisb    -kAlogAl
rO'    4ro8Zi
$>                  ~~~~~G u/ f  of   A oe en
-lr               ~~~~~450                                          48



-.a                                  .IS                                                          -
IW.WUWQ I43JD SOUVIdPD PRUMMAM Au*j AmAaM Aujo SsIpof ma u
P 4WW        pD hO            W 8Wh    QU *p LL JOD ' '   u -*k
,da  a uo -w Cp MOU wS pal pm mw9mumWPU |W smdW* ~-A
-m5a3MA   PILO 8WF P-M MU JO AM paRuw SW AM&J 4SAr StIW tApW So
- P aoii  eg .s *dIa,jW 5.9W1S AII qg Pm  INq atug 9U - -
s;WOllM--'"
OOZ               OOL                  0
|                                                olloli~~~~~~~~~~~~~~019nw I 
t81'i81O              1                                                                   9.  ,
LLo8L G<                         /     { I
N v    O  ')     i               .~~~~~~~~~~-'1;a nS 
| twl83-soso                     ws 1ONAbdS
Z81 auN



45                                                   48
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
IDA- ASSISTED PROJECTS BY SECTOR
PROJECT TYPE:                   EXISTING FEATURES:
,    Agriculture                   0   Selected Towns and Villages
4.   Fisheries                   @    Governorote Capitals
13   Petroleum Exploration      @    Notional Capitol
180       ~~Assistance             -t Airports
A EducationPot
Highways               ~~~~~Primnary Roads
* Power Stations           ____Secondary Roads
Transmission Lines              Trcks
331 Water Supply                     Wadi_                                                               I
..&   Port DevePlopmnentWoi  
EL~. Port Developmet N   =      Governorote Boundaries
International Boundaries
ELEVATIONS:
2000 fmeters
7~~~~~~.
A R AB
R EP.
ARi_-
,I MuIcoIIo
7a~ i                                           1, " 
0
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~L
5E.~~pDN2 ,- ; - , - -.,7stt w 
Ths n,p hs b
VPW meadws and
76           , _16  6    16 F5uwice CAowrt
on Sw legal slat
-;12                        450                                                      480



____________________________________________________                       IBRD  17290  R
51l                                   .00
FISCAL
PROJECT:              YEAR APPROVED
P,                                                       HIGHWAYS r                 1971
P  FISHERIES 1                 1973
t  EDUCATION I                 1975
0 M  A  N   @ HIGHWAYS H                            1975
4 ADEN PORT REHABILITATION 1976
^  ) WADI HADRAMAWT AGRIC. 1 1976
6 WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURE  1978
7 WADI HADRAMAWT POWER  1978
O) WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING  1978
& TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
8 EDUCATION II                1979
9 FISHERIES HE                1979
10 PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT   1980
ASSISTANCE
11 ADEN WATER SUPPLY           1980
12 HIGHWAYS m                  1981
13 WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURE  1981
14 AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY  1981
-  !y,   -_   15 EDUCATION m                      1982
16 FISHERIES m                 1982
17 POWER II                    1982
_g_1 ; 9         18 ROADS FLOOD RECONSTRUC- 1983
16                         ~~~~~~~TION
19 WADI HADRAMAWT AGRIC H  1983
oNishtun           * HEALTH DEVELOPMENT          1983
20 SEIYUN WATER SUPPLY         1984
21 EDUCATION  IZ               1984
t~~~~~
-  Completed projects
_yOi lc                                                                  * Project spread over several or
=numerous locaftons
SAUDI  ARABIA
jOMAN
O                 100                200                       .00-
'   '   '     S                        ~~~~~YEMEN  1a       | 2 e
KILOMETERS                                       ARAB
'mi PiarG.d &y The %tib Bw*s$ saff exdAasiv fa M~e co'lwwwwo of
I i e%dwsm* M the s tWind us of The W-d Brw* and VW hownwb
- n 7be mnuo_ usw andvbowxwms nswanpn OmJBO amp do of 4d
N, Of _h Y t aw  ad    wnaffataf Rnwi>e ipaaaw,.  xnDgd                                       Socotra
- - os d y tw,iMy or &ny wndawsae or_ accwice of such boudaes. _
ETHIOPIA  \       SOMALIA ,
51'                                                    ,
NOVEMBER 1984



