RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                   Report No. P-8
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SECOND NORTH SUMATRA AGRICULTURAL
ESTATES PROJECT
May 12, 1970



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE JIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREIET TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR A SECOND
NORTH SUMATRA AGRICULTURAL ESTATES PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Indonesia in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to US$17 million for a second North Sumatra Agricultural
Estates Project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.      The Government of Indonesia has asked for an IDA credit to help
finance the rehabilitation and development of two groups of Government-
owned estates in North Sumatra. An IDA credit (No. 155-IND of June 20, 1969)
has already been made for the rehabilitation of two other groups of estates
in North Sumatra producing rubber and palm oil. The other IDA credit
to date in the agricultural sector (No. 127-IND of September 6, 1969)
is for an irrigation rehabilitation project, the purpose of which is to
increase rice production. The project was appraised in November and
December 1969.
3.      Negotiations for the proposed credit took place from April 20-29,
1970. The Borrower was represented by Colonel A. Muluk Lubis, Director-
General of State Estates; Dr. Saleh Afiff, Chief, Bureau of Agriculture
and Estates, National Planning Agency (BAPPENAS); Mr. S. Pelawi, First
Director PNP IV; Mr. Sudjai Kartasamita, First Director, PNP VI;
Mr. Satar Loebis, Senior Assistant to the Director-General of State
Estates; Mr. Rasidi, Director of State Investments, Ministry of Finance;
Mr. A.D. Ibrahim, First Secretary, Embassy of Indonesia.
4.      The following is a summary of the status of earlier credits as
of April 30, 1970 :
Credit No.   Year    Borrower       Purpose             Amount ($ millions)
IDA    Undisbursed
127       1968    Indonesia  Irrigation Rehab-
ilitation              5.0        2.8
135       1968    Indonesia  Technical Assis-
tance                  2.0        1.8
154       1969    Indonesia  Highway Rehab-
ilitation             28.0       28.0
155       1969    Indonesia  Estates Rehab-
ilitation             16.0       15.8
165       1969    Indonesia  Electricity
Distribution          15.0       15.0



- 2 -
Under the First Estates Credit No. 155-IND which became effective on
December 10, 1969, $212,000 had been disbursed by April 30 for the supply
of fertilizer and a contract for consultant services has been agreed upon.
The status of disbursements on other projects is set forth in my report
and recommendation on the Pusri Fertilizer Expansion project (No. P-803
of April 30, 1970, paragraph 5).
5.        A credit of US$30 million for the expansion of the Pusri Fertili-
zer Plant was approved by the Executive Directors on May 12. I expect to
present shortly proposed credits for a second irrigation rehabilitation
project, a telecommunications project and a fisheries project.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
6.        Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Amount:            Various currencies equivalent to US$17 million
Purpose:           The rehabilitation and expansion of two groups
of Government estates, one producing rubber and
another producing palm oil and palm kernels, and
the reorganization of the Government agency for
agricultural research in North Sumatra (RISPA).
Amortization:      In 50 years with a 10-year period of grace,
through semi-annual installments commencing
November 1, 1980 and ending May 1, 2020.
Each installment up to and including payment
due on May 1, 1990 to be 1/2 of 1 percent of
such principal amount and each installment
thereafter to be 1-1/2 percent of such principal.
Service Charge:    3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
Estimated Economic
Rate of Return:    12-30 percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        A detailed description of the project is given in the attached
Appraisal Report entitled "Second North Sumatra Estates Project" (PA-53)
dated May 12, 1970.
8.        The estates sector is one of Indonesia's largest earners of foreign
exchange but its relative contribution has decreased since 1940 due to the
run-down condition of the individual estates caused by Government neglect



- 3 -
and extreme inflation. The present Government is determined to bring this
industry back to its former level of efficiency, but large investments are
required for replanting and improvement in research programs before this end
can be achieved. IDA Credit 155-IND together with the proposed credit wi-ll
help to rehabilitate about 85 percent of government-owned palm oil estates
and 25 percent of government-owned rubber estates.
9.        The proposed credit would assist two groups of estates to finance
a program of rehabilitation and development. This program will cover one
group of estates producing rubber (PNP IV) and another group of estates
producing palm oil and palm oil kernels (PNP VI). The program consists
of (1) planting and replanting of substantial areas with rubber and oil
palm, (2) bringing to maturity areas now planted with immature rubber and
oil palm, (3) rehabilitating areas now planted with rubber and oil palm
by the application of fertilizer. Also included in the program is the re-
habilitation and development of facilities for the processing of rubber and
palm products and the provision of vehicles, agricultural equipment, and
machinery for land clearing and the upkeep of the estates.
10.       A small portion of the proposed credit, $600,000, will take the
form of a grant by the Government to RISPA, the Government agency in charge
of research into rubber, palm oil and tea crops in North Sumatra. An
amount of $200,000 will permit the Government to employ consultants ac-
ceptable to the Association to submit proposals for the reorganization
of RISPA and prepare a long-term research and development program. The
remainder would enable the Government to procure some of the goods and
services required for the execution of such a research program.
11.       Each of the PNPs would be run by a Board of Directors to be
appointed by the President on the recommendation of the Minister of Ag-
riculture, to be responsible to the Minister of Agriculture; the Boards
would provide policy guidance. The day to day operations would be run by
a general manager assisted by a commercial manager and a production mana-
ger, all appointed by the Minister of Agriculture on the recommendation of
the Board. Appointments to the Boards of Directors and Executive Management
of the PNPs will be made folloEing consultation with the Association. To
strengthen the management and operation of the PNPs, each will engage a
qualified company to provide an estate and factory inspection service for
at least 5 years, and financial, agricultural and estate management advisers
for at least 2 years.
12.       The total cost of the project is estimated to be about $31.7 million
and the foreign exchange cost to be about $17 million, or 54 percent of the
total, all of which would be covered by the proposed credit. The credit
would be disbursed mainly for fertilizers, processing facilities, vehicles,
machinery and technical services. All goods financed by the proposed credit
would be procured after international competitive bidding.



- 4 -
13.       The Government's contribution to PIT. IV and VI and the proceeds
of the proposed credit earmarked for each PNP would be lent under subsidiary
loan agreements satisfactory to the Association. Both the Government's
contributions and the proceeds of the credit would be lent at the Govern-
ment's standard rate of interest, i.e. 12 percent per annum. The amorti-
zation periods would be adjusted to the cash flow prospects, i.e. in the
case of PNP VI, a term of 13 years including 5 years of grace, and in the
case of PNP IV, a term of 16 years including a grace period of 9 years.
The loens would be repayable to the Government in rupiah but there would
be provision for maintenance of value in terms of US dollars.
14.       The principal benefits to be derived from the project are the
greatly increased foreign exchange earnings, the greater return to the
Government in taxes and profits, and the improvement in research facilities
available to all growers of rubber, palm oil and tea in North Sumatra.
Economic rates of return depend mainly on the price which will be received
in future years for rubber and palm products. It has been conservatively
estimated that rubber prices will fall from 20 to 16 US cents per lb. cif
New York to imeet the possibility that synthetic rubber manufacturers may
be able to reduce their price from the present 21 cents to 16 cents per
lb., by reason of some technical brealk-through. On the basis of a 16 cent
price for rubber, the rates of return vary from 28 percent for the ferti-
lizer investment program to 12 percent for planting new rubber. In the
case of palm oil, it is estimated also that prices will fall from the 1969
average of US$81 cif per ton to a range of US$155 to US$165 cif per ton,
and palm kernels from the 1969 average price of US$153 cif per ton to a
range of US$135 to US$138 cif per ton. On this basis, rates of return on
oil palms vary from about 30 percent for planting and replanting to 22 per-
cent for the fertilizer investment program.
PAIRT IV  - LEGAL nISTRUMNETS AND AUTHORITY
15.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Indonesia and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion, and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
16.       The draft Development Credit Agreement includes the usual pro-
visions f£or agricultural projects. Article IV contains similar covenants
to those contained in the first Estates Credit No. 155-IND, together with
certain additional covenants requiring the Government to improve roads, re-
habilitate drains, remove illegal squatters, divest PNP VI of one of its
estates, and cause the annual budgets of PNPs to be submitted for approval
of planting programs by the Association. All processing arrangements for
PNPs require Association approval. No withdrawals may be made in respect
of estate Tanah Itam Ulu of PNP VI until the blocked outlet drain to the
sea at that estate has been rehabilitated (Section 203 (ii)). Included
among the conditions of effectiveness of the credit (Section 6.01) are the
appointment of the Board of Directors, the execution of Subsidiary Loan



Agreements, satisfactory to the Association, between the Government and
the PNPs, and the engagement by the PNPs of companies qualified in the
management and operation of plantations.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
17.       A statement on Indonesia's current economic situation was in-
cluded in my report and recommendation of April 30 on the proposed credit
for the PUSRI fertilizer expansion project (No. P-803). The last full
report on the economic position and prospects of Indonesia (EAP-lOa) was
issued on November 14, 1969, and has since been supplemented by a special
report on current investment activity in the public and private sectors
(EAP-14a), which was distributed to the Execu.tive Directors on March 27,
1970.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE TWITH THE ARTICLES OF AGREE=ENT
18.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit i^Jould com-
ply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VIII - RECOEMEDATION
19.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachment
Washington D.C.
May 12, 1970



