CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 194 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second North Sumatra Agricultural Estates Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 15, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 194 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second North Sumatra Agricultural Estates Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 15, 1970


﻿A
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 15, 1970, between the REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)   "PNP IV" and "PNP VI" mean, respectively, the state-owned estate
enterprises (Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan) in Noth Sumatra,
established and so designated by Government Regulation No. 14,
1968, as amended and supplemented by Government Regulation
No. 18, 1970, and any successor thereto.
(b)   "Joint Board of Directors" means the organization of Managing
Directors of PNPs I to IX, with offices in Medan, established under
Regulation No. 6/Kpts/D/68 of the Director General of State
Plantations, dated June 17, 1968, and any successor thereto.
(c)   "Joint Marketing Office" means the organization of that name
established under said Regulation No. 6/Kpts/D/68, and any successor
thereto.
(d)   "RISPA" means the Estates Research Institute in Medan, within the
Directorate-General of Estates in the Ministry of Agriculture, and any
successor thereto.


﻿4
(e)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 11
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million dollars
($17,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit Account on its books
in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such Account the amount of
the Credit.
(b)   The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth
in, this Development Credit Agreement and in accordance with the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
allocation shall be modified from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such
Schedule or by further agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit
Account such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree,
shall be required to meet payments to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods or services required for the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to be financed under this Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that (i) unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of payments in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower, and (ii)
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of Estate Tanah Itam Ulu of PNP VI
until the blocked outlet drain to the sea at Tanah Itam Ulu has been rehabilitated.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I %) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 1 and
November I in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each


﻿5
May I    and  November 1    commencing    November 1, 1980   and   ending
May 1, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
May 1, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 (a) of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of the Credit, or
cause the proceeds of the Credit to be applied, in accordance with the provisions
of this Development Credit Agreement exclusively to expenditures on the Project.
(b)   For the purposes of Parts A and B of the Project, to be carried out
by PNP IV and PNP VI, respectively, Subsidiary Loan Agreements satisfactory in
form and substance to the Association shall be entered into between the Borrower
and each of such PNPs, providing, inter alia, that an amount of the proceeds of
the Credit equivalent to $2,900,000 shall be relent to PNP IV and an amount
of the proceeds of the Credit equivalent to $12,000,000 shall be relent to PNP
VI, and providing for the performance by each of such PNPs of the obligations
relating to it set forth in this Development Credit Agreement, for the doing by
each of such PNPs of all such acts as shall be required on its part to be done
to enable the Borrower to perform its obligations under this Development Credit
Agreement, and for the lending by the Borrower to each such PNP of the Borrower's
contribution in its own currency to the financing of the Project. Each Subsidiary
Loan Agreement providing for relending of the proceeds of the Credit shall provide
for eventual adjustments in the amounts of such proceeds relent thereunder, to
reflect reallocations pursuant to Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, until completion of the Project, cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively in carrying out the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (i) the goods
and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, and in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement or as shall be agreed


﻿6
between the Borrower and the Association, and (ii) contracts for the procurement
of such goods and services shall be subject to the prior approval of the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project and shall cause the
Project to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound administrative, financial, agricultural and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
(i) cause the Rantau Prapat-Adjamu road, and all other roads to be used by ordinary
estate vehicles for the carrying out of the Project, to be improved and properly
maintained to permit use by said vehicles; and (ii) rehabilitate and properly maintain
the blocked outlet drain to the sea at Tanah Itam Ulu, and all other outlet drains
to the sea affecting PNP IV and PNP 1I, said rehabilitation at Tanah Itam Ulu
to be completed by not later than June 30, 1971.
Section 4.03. In respect of the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project,
and of the management and operation of PNP IV and PNP VI, the Borrower shall,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree:
(a)   ensure that all planting material used for commercial plantings of
rubber and oil palm during the years 1971 to 1974, inclusively, will have been
recommended by the plant-breeding consultants to be employed by the Borrower
pursuant to Section 4.05 of the Development Credit Agreement between the
Borrower and the Association dated June 20, 1969;
(b)   cause all necessary measures to be taken to ensure that all persons
illegally occupying any part of the estates of PNP IV and PNP VI and whose
continued presence thereon could otherwise impede the implementation of the
Project, shall timeously vacate or be evicted therefrom;
(c)   ensure that PNP IV and PNP VI maintain arrangements satisfactory
to the Joint Marketing Office and to the Association for the processing of their
products, and in particular that no processing arrangements presently in use will
continue to be used by PNP IV or PNP VI without the prior approval in each
case of the Joint Marketing Office and of the Association;


﻿7
(d)   ensure (i) that PNP    VI shall be divested of all management
responsibilities in respect of Estate Karang Inoue and shall be entirely absolved
from all liability for the financial losses and obligations of Estate Karang Inoue,
of whatsoever nature; (ii) that no land shall be added to or, subject as aforesaid,
taken from the lands currently under the management and control of PNP IV
and PNP VI, respectively; and (iii) that additional management burdens, not
inherent to the management of their estates, shall not be imposed upon PNP IV
or PNP VI, without, in the case of either (ii) or (iii), the prior agreement of the
Association during the period of carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project
and prior consultation with the Association thereafter;
(e)   ensure that appointments of persons to the Boards of Directors and
Executive Managements of PNP IV and PNP VI shall be made following consultation
with the Association, and that PNP IV and PNP VI shall be operated at all times
according to sound administrative, financial and agricultural practices and policies
under qualified and experienced management;
(f)   cause PNP IV and PNP VI each to engage a company qualified in
the management and operation of plantations, acceptable to the Association and
engaged under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to strengthen
the management and operations of such PNPs, including the provision of an estate
and factory inspection service for at least five years, a financial adviser, an estate
management specialist adviser and an agricultural specialist adviser, each for at least
two years, and such other technical advisers and supporting services as may be
necessary;
(g)   cause the accounts of PNP IV and PNP VI to be audited at least once
each year, and their financial statements (balance sheet and statement of income
and expenses) to be certified by independent auditors satisfactory to the
Association, and copies of such statements as so certified, together with the report
of the auditors thereon, to be furnished to the Association within four months
following the close of each fiscal year;
(h)   cause the annual budgets proposed for PNP IV and PNP VI, together
with comments thereon by the companies providing inspection services under
Section 4.03 (f) of this Agreement, to be submitted to the Association at least
thirty days before the commencement of the financial year to which such budgets
will apply, and any subsequent material amendments to such budgets, with
comments as aforesaid, to be submitted to the Association at least thirty days
before adoption thereof, for (i) approval by the Association of the planting
programs to be included in said budgets and (ii) any comments which the
Association may wish to make with reference to other aspects of said budgets;


﻿8
(i)   ensure that rubber, palm oil and palm kernels produced by PNP IV
and PNP VI shall be marketed only by the Joint Marketing Office through the
standard procedures of such office.
Section 4.04. In carrying out Part C of the Project the Borrower shall (i)
employ consultants acceptable to the Association and to an extent and upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) ensure that the
recommendations of said consultants are promptly submitted to the Association
in order that agreement may be reached between the Borrower and the Association
with reference to the implementation thereof.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause all goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be insured with responsible insurers against marine, transit
and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of such
goods to the place of use or installation, and any indemnity thereunder shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the importer to replace or repair such goods.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to show the use of the proceeds of the Credit, and to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof); shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect any records and documents relevant to the Project,
including records and documents which the consultants employed by the Borrower
shall be required to keep for the purposes of the Project; and shall furnish or
cause to be furnished to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the expenditures of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Project.
Section 4.07. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully
to ensure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each
of them shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the administration, operations and financial condition of PNP IV
and PNP VI, RISPA, the Joint Marketing Office, the Joint Board of Directors
and any other agency charged with carrying out any part of the Project, and to
the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information
shall include information with respect to financial and economic conditions in the
territories of the Borrower and the international balance of payments position of
the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time exchange
views through their representatives with regard to matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof and to the matters referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section. The Borrower shall promptly inform the


﻿9
Association of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the maintenance of the service
thereof.
(c)   The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.
Section 4.08. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 4.09. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in
its territories on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall ensure that PNP IV and PNP VI shall be
subject only to those taxes and rates thereof which are imposed generally upon
limited companies or corporations in like circumstances.
ARTICLE V
Remedies
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately,
together with the service charges thereon, and upon such declaration such principal
and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything in this
Development Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional evenLs are specified:
(a)   The Borrower or any other authority shall have taken any action for
the dissolution of, or suspension of any operations of, PNP IV or PNP
VI.
(b)   During the life of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Borrower and PNP IV, or for a period of sixteen years after the date


﻿10
hereof, whichever is longer, any change concerning PNP IV shall have
been made in the arrangement described in said Government Regulation
No. 18, 1970, or any provision of said Subsidiary Loan Agreement
shall have been amended or waived.
(c)   During the life of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Borrower and PNP VI, or for a period of thirteen years after the date
hereof, whichever is longer, any change concerning PNP VI shall have
been made in the arrangement described in said Government Regulation
No. 18, 1970, or any provision of said Subsidiary Loan Agreement
shall have been amended or waived.
(d)   Either PNP IV or PNP VI shall have failed to carry out any obligation
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement and such default shall
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower and the PNP in question.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Association, have been entered into by the parties thereto;
(b)   the first Boards of Directors and Executive Managements of PNP IV
and PNP VI referred to in said Government Regulation No. 18, 1970
have been duly appointed in accordance with Section 4.03 (e) of this
Agreement;
(c)   PNP VI has been entirely discharged from all management and financial
responsibility for Estate Karang Inoue in accordance with Section 4.03
(d) (i) of this Agreement;
(d)   the plant-breeding consultants referred to in Section 4.03 (a) of this
Agreement have been duly appointed and have commenced to exercise
their functions within the territory of the Borrower; and


﻿(e)   companies qualified in the management and operation of plantations
have been engaged by PNP IV and PNP VI in accordance with Section
4.03 (f) of this Agreement to provide the services referred to therein.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that PNP IV and PNP VI are legal entities duly organized and operating
Linder the laws of the Borrower, wi.h all rights and powers necessary
to enable them to carry out their respective Parts of the Project and
to enter into, and carry out the terms and conditions of, the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements;
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the respective
parties thereto and constitute valid and binding obligations of such
parties in accordance with their terms, subject only to the effectiveness
of this Development Credit Agreement;
(c)   that the appointments referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement
have been duly and validly made; and
(d)   that PNP VI has been lawfully and effectively discharged from all
management and financial responsibility for Estate Karang Inoue.
Section 6.03. The date of September 1, 1970 is specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.02, 4.03
and 4.10 of this Agreement shall terminate (i) in respect of Part A of the Project,
on the date on which the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and
PNP IV shall terminate or on a date sixteen years after the date of this Development
Credit Agreement, whichever shall be the later, and (ii) in respect of Part B of
the Project, on the date on which the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Borrower and PNP VI shall terminate or on a date thirteen years after the date
of this Development Credit Agreement, whichever shall be the later.


﻿12
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1975, or such other date
as may from time to time be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 7.02. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.03. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Djakarta, Indonesia
Alternative address for cables:
Ministry Finance
Djakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit


﻿13
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s / Soedjatmoko
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Simon Aldewereld
Vice Presidcent


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of the Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                                    in Dollar Equivalent
A.   For Part A of the Project (PNP IV)
1.   Fertilizer                                    1,320,000
2.   Processing, storage, workshop
and laboratory facilities                      390,000
3.   Buildings                                        80,000
4.   Vehicles, rolling stock, machinery,
equipment and chemicals                        550,000
5.   Technical Services                              560,000
Total Part A       2,900,000
B.   For Part B of the Project (PNP VI)
1.   Ftrtilizer                                    6,570,000
2.   Processing, storage, workshop
and laboratory facilites                      2,145,000
3.   Buildings                                       156,000
4.   Vehicles, rolling stock, machinery,
equipment and chemicals                       2,534,000
5.   Technical Services                              595,000
Total Part B      12,000,000
C.   Technical Assistance for RISPA
1.   Consultants                                    200,000
2.   Goods and Services                              400,000
Total Part C         600,000
D.   Unallocated                                         1,500,000
TOTAL             17,000,000


﻿15
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1.    If the estimate of the cost of any item included under any of the Categories
A, B or C shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to, but
no longer required for, such item will be reallocated by the Association to
Category D.
2.    If the estimate of the cost of any such item shall increase, an amount equal
to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit will be allocated by the Association, at the request of the
Borrower, to such item from Category D, subject, however, to the
requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Association, in respect
of the cost of the other items.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project constitutes a program of rehabilitation and development of
Government-owned estates over the period 1970-74. It includes:
Part A.    The rehabilitation and development of PNP IV, involving:
(1)  re-planting with rubber about 6,800 ha of uneconomic rubber;
(2)   planting with rubber about 5,200 ha of presently uncultivated land;
(3)   bringing into commercial production the above areas and some 9,800
ha of immature rubber planted prior to 1970;
(4)   rehabilitating, through a fertilizer application program in 1971 and
1972, about 19,400 ha of mature rubber;
(5)   rehabilitating about 300 ha of immature rubber through special
programs of weed control;
(6)   rehabilitating, replacing and expanding rubber processing, storage,
laboratory and workshop facilities and transportation equipment, to
handle the crop from the above areas;
(7)   rehabilitating, replacing and expanding estate buildings, personnel
transport and machinery for estate road maintenance, as required for
the efficient conduct of estate operations;
(8)   rehabilitating, replacing and expanding agricultural machinery for
land-clearing, draining, nursery irrigation and other agricultural
purposes, as required for the efficient conduct of estate operations;
(9)   employing a company qualified in the management and operation of
plantations to provide technical assistance to PNP IV management,
including an estate and factory advisory and inspection service and
a financial management advisor; and
(10) purchasing foliar analysis services.


﻿17
Part B.    The rehabilitation and development of PNP VI, involving:
(1)  re-planting with oil palms about 2,100 ha of uneconomic oil palms
and 500 ha of uneconomic rubber;
(2)   planting with oil palms about 5,400 ha of presently uncultivated land;
(3)   bringing into commercial production the above areas and some 7,200
ha of immature oil palms planted prior to 1970;
(4)   rehabilitating, through a fertilizer application program in 1970 through
1972, about 23,335 ha of mature oil palms;
(5)   rehabilitating about 9,100 ha of mature oil palms and 7,200 ha of
immature oil palms through special programs of weed and disease
control, drainage and selective felling of uneconomic palms;
(6)   rehabilitating, replacing and expanding oil palm fruit processing,
storage, laboratory  and  workshop  facilities and  transportation
equipment, to handle the crop from the above areas;
(7)   rehabilitating, replacing and expanding estate buildings, personnel
transport and machinery for estate road maintenance, as required for
the efficient conduct of estate operations;
(8)   rehabilitating, replacing and expanding agricultural machinery for land
clearing, draining, nursery irrigation and other agricultural purposes,
as required for the efficient conduct of estate operations;
(9)   employing a company qualified in the management and operation of
plantations to provide technical assistance to PNP VI management,
including an estate and factory advisory and inspection service and
a financial management advisor; and
(10) purchasing foliar analysis services.
Part C.    The rehabilitation and improvement of RISPA, involving:
(1)   employment by the Borrower of consultants to submit proposals for
the reorganization of RISPA and to prepare a long-term research and
development program; and
(2)  implementation of such recommendations of said consultants as shall
be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   Contracts proposed for the procurement of such goods in amounts not
exceeding $50,000 equivalent need not be submitted to the Association for its
approval prior to signature. In respect of each such contract, the Association will
be furnished with copies of the bidding documents, the analysis of bids and a
conformed copy of the contract, promptly after the execution of such contract
and prior to the date of the first application to the Association for withdrawal
of proceeds of the Credit in respect of any payment under such contract.
2.    Before bids are invited for any contract for the procurement of such goods
expected to be in an amount exceeding $50,000 equivalent, the bidding documents,
including draft contract, shall be submitted to the Association for its approval.
Before any award is made thereon, a summary of the bids received, an analysis
thereof with recommendation on justification for the proposed award, together
with the procks-verbal of the public opening of the bids, will be submitted to
the Association for its approval. As soon as the approved award has been made
and prior to the date of the first application for withdrawal of proceeds of the
Credit in respect of any payment under such contract, a conformed copy of the
contract will be furnished to the Association.


