                                               Document of
                                             The World Bank

                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                Report No.: 32604-BR


                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                                (Ln 72180)

                                                   ON A

                                                  LOAN

 IN THE AMOUNT OF EUROS 427.2 MILLION (US$ 505,050,000 EQUIVALENT)

                                                  TO THE

                               FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                                 FOR THE

                               FIRST PROGRAMMATIC LOAN FOR
                          SUSTAINABLE AND EQUITABLE GROWTH



                                               June 28, 2005




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Brazil Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region


 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
 their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        (Exchange Rate Effective March 28, 2005)

                              Currency Unit = Brazilian Real
                                       R$ 1.00 = US$ 0.37
                                     US$ 1.00 = R$ 2.73

                               WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                                           Metric System

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1        ­    December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABDI     Agência Brasileira de Desenvolvimento Industrial  Brazilian Agency for Industrial Development
ANTAQ    Agência Nacional de Trasportes Aquaviários        National Water Transport Agency
ANTT     Agência Nacional de Transportes Terrestres        National Land Transport Agency
BNDES    Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e     National Bank for Economic and Social
         Social                                            Development
CADE     Conselho Administrativo de Defesa Econômica       Economic Defense Council
CAP      Conselho de Autoridade Portuária                  Port Authority Council
CCT      Conselho Nacional de Ciência e Tecnologia         Science and Technology Council
CDM       Mecanismo de Desenvolvimento Limpo               Clean Development Mechanism
CMN      Conselho Monetário Nacional                       National Monetary Council
CNAE      Classificação Nacional de Atividades Econômicas  National Classification of Economic Activities
CNDI     Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Industrial   National Council of Industrial Development
CNPQ      Conselho Nacional de Pesquisas                   National Research Council
COFINS    Contribuição para Financiamento da Seguridade    Social Security Contribution
         Social
CPMF      Contribuição Provisória sobre Movimentação       Provisional Contribution on Financial
         Financeira                                        Transactions
CREMA     Contrato de Restauração e Manutenção da Malha    Federal Road Network Maintenance Contract
         Rodoviária Federal
CSLL     Contribuição Social sobre Lucro Líquido           Social Contribution on Net Income
CTN      Código Tributário Nacional                        National Tax Code
DNER      Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem     National Highway Agency
DNIT      Departamento Nacional de Infra-estrutura de      Department of Transport Infrastructure
         Transporte
FAMPE    Fundo de Aval à Microempresas e Empresas de       Endorsement Fund for Micro and Small
         Pequeno Porte                                     Enterprises
FAT      Fundo de Amparo ao Trabalhador                    Workers Support Fund
FDI       Investimento Direto Estrangeiro                  Foreign Direct Investment
FINEP    Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos                Fund for Research and Projects
FUNPROGER Fundo de Aval para a Geração de Emprego e Renda  Guarantee Fund for Income and Employment
                                                           Generation


                             Vice President:           Pamela Cox
                          Country Director:            Vinod Thomas
                            Sector Director:           Makhtar Diop
                            Sector Manager:            Susan Goldmark
                              Sector Leader:           Jennifer Sara
                        Task Team Leader:              Paulo Correa

GDP      Produto Interno Bruto                              Gross Domestic Product
ICMS     Imposto sobre Circulação de Mercadorias e Serviços State Sales Tax
ICT      Tecnologia de Comunicações e Informação            Information and Communications Technology
INPI     Instituto Nacional de Propriedade Industrial       National Intellectual Property Institute
IPI      Imposto Sobre Produtos Industrializados             Federal Sales Tax
IPR      Direitos Autorais                                   Intellectual Property Rights
IRB      Instituto de Resseguros do Brasil                   Brazilian Reinsurance Institute
ISS      Imposto Sobre Serviço                               Services Tax
MCT      Ministério da Ciência e Tecnologia                 Ministry of Science and Technology
MDIC     Ministério do Desenvolvimento, Indústria e Comércio Ministry of Development, Industry and
        Exterior                                             International Trade
MERCOSUR Mercado Comum do Sul                               Common Market of the Southern Cone
MT      Ministério dos Transportes                           Ministry of Transport
OGMO     Órgão Gestor de Mão-de-Obra                        Labor Management Organization
OSCIP    Organização da Sociedade Civil de Interesse Público Public-Interest Civil-Society Organization
PACE     Programa de Apoio à Agenda de Crescimento           Support Program to the Agenda of Equitable
        Econômico Equitativo e Sustentável                   and Sustainable Economic Growth
PASEP   Programa de Formação do Patrimônio do Servidor       Public Employee Asset Formation Program
        Público
PIS     Programa de Integração Social do Trabalhador         Workers Social Integration Program
PNMPO   Programa Nacional de Microcrédito Produtivo          National Program of Oriented Productive Micro
        Orientado                                            Credit
PPP      Parceria Público Privada                            Public-Private Partnership
R&D     Pesquisa e Desenvolvimento                           Research and Development
S&T     Ciência e Tecnologia                                 Science and Technology
SCM     Sociedades de Crédito ao Micro-Empreendedor          Small-Business Credit Companies
SDE      Secretaria de Direito Econômico                     Economic Law Secretariat
SEAE    Secretaria de Acompanhamento Econômico               Economic Monitoring Secretariat
SEBRAE   Serviço Brasileiro de Apoio às Micro e Pequenas     Brazilian Micro and Small Business Support
        Empresas                                             Service
SELIC    Sistema Especial de Liquidação e de Custódia        Clearance and Trustee System
SME      Pequenas e Médias Empresas                          Small and Medium Enterprises
SPC     Sistema de Proteção ao Crédito                       Credit Protection System
TFP      Produtividade Total dos Fatores                     Total Factor Productivity

                                       BRAZIL
                      FIRST PROGRAMMATIC LOAN FOR
                   SUSTAINABLE AND EQUITABLE GROWTH

                                     CONTENTS


                                                          Page No.

1. Project Data                                            01
2. Principal Performance Ratings                           01
3. Program Description                                     03
4. The Current Operation                                   04
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome      06
6. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operations     07
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                           10
8. Partner Comments                                        12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators                        18
Annex 2. Matrix of Key Actions and Indicators              19

Operation ID: P080827                                 Operation Name: First Programmatic Loan
                                                      for Sustainable and Equitable growth
Team leader: Paulo Guilherme Correa                   TL Unit: LCSFR
ICR Type: Simplified Implementation                   Report Date: June 29, 2005
Completion Report

1. Project Data

Name:          First Programmatic Loan for Sustainable and L/C Number:                       72180
               Equitable growth
Country/       Brazil                                                     Region             LCR
Department:
Sector/        General Industry and trade sector (35%), Banking (25%), General Transport
Subsector:     Sector (25%), Central government administration (10%), Law and Justice (5%)

Theme:         Trade Facilitation and Market Access (P), Infrastructure Service for Private
               Sector Development (P), Regulation and Competition Policy (P), Tax Policy
               and administration (S), Legal Institutions for a Market Economy (S)


KEY DATES:
                                                           Original:             Revised / Actual
PCD/PR:            06/19/2003         Effective:           06/21/2004            06/21/2004
Appraisal:         12/18/2003         MTR:                 N/A                   N/A
Approval:          02/19/2004         Closing:             12/31/2004            12/31/2004

Borrower / Implementation agency:             Federative Republic of Brazil / Ministry of Finance

STAFF                      Current                              At Appraisal
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Vinod Thomas                         Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager:            Susan Goldmark                       Susan Goldmark
Team leader at ICR:        Paulo Guilherme Correa               Paulo Guilherme Correa
ICR Primary Author:        Manuela        Francisco,    Paulo
                           Correa

2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS= Highly Satisfactory, S= Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely,
HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)


Outcome:                                HS
Sustainability:                         HL
Institutional Development Impact:       S
Bank Performance:                       HS
Borrower Performance:                   HS


                                                                                            1

                                QAG (if available)    ICR
Quality at entry:                                     S
Project at risk at any time:    No




                                                             2

3. Program Description

The program supported by the "First Programmatic Loan for Sustainable and Equitable
Growth (FPLSEG)" consists of a sub-set (the Growth Program) of a larger set of
microeconomic and institutional reforms under implementation by the Government of
Brazil to foster long-term growth and reduce poverty (the Growth Agenda). The Growth
Program defines a set of reforms around four main objectives--(i) reducing logistics
costs; (ii) improving the business environment; (iii) enhancing financial efficiency and
depth; and (iv) transforming knowledge into productivity gains--to be implemented in
stages, according to the evolution of political and economic environments. This program
included clear scenarios and triggers for future operations within the term of the current
administration (2003-2006), with the second loan focusing on the consolidation of legal
reforms to improve the business environment and reduce logistics costs and, a third loan
on innovation and the financial sector. Yet, the program allows the required flexibility to
respond to unpredictable economic realities and political possibilities across a broad set
of reforms.

For each program area, specific targets were identified and key measures were defined,
setting up a roadmap of objectives to be achieved by the end of the program. In order to
reduce logistics cost, for example, the government identified the need to: (i) decrease
clearance time in customs by up to 60 percent; (ii) reduce container handling costs by 10
percent; and (iii) raise to 50 percent the share of federal roads under good conditions.
Among the measures required to reach these goals, cuts in selectivity levels for cargo
inspections, reductions in port labor redundancy, further concession to the private sector
and transfers to states of specific trenches of the federal road network were selected as
the main priorities. The agenda of reforms in the business environment, by its turn,
focused in three major topics: (i) improving market entry and exit, essentially by
replacing the existing antitrust and bankruptcy regimes; (ii) facilitating business
registration and operation, cutting down the time to register a new firm to 76 days; and
(iii) strengthening infrastructure regulations for private sector participation, through
completion of the legal framework for private sector participation in selected sectors as
well as the provision of the appropriate legal basis for efficient public-private
partnerships (PPPs).1

In the financial sector, reform goals focused on increasing competition, which could
lower spreads by as much as 100 basis points by end 2006; strengthening systemic
stability; mobilizing long-term resources in the insurance sector and improving access for
the poor and SMEs. That would require, among others, the extension of the antitrust
legislation to the banking industry and, for that purpose, related legal reforms; the
approval of a new factoring law and better use of credit registries. In order to transform


1In particular, a new bankruptcy and insolvency law would expedite the recovery process of potentially
viable enterprises, avoiding unnecessary waste of capital. A new framework for PPPs was also needed due
to limitations imposed by the Concession Law (Law 8,987/1995), on the one hand; and the Procurement
Law (Law 8,666/1994) and Public Service Law (Law 9,074/1995) on the other. For further explanation, see
section 4c of World Bank Report No. 27507-BR.


                                                                                                     3

knowledge into productivity gains, the main objective of the reforms was to facilitate
the commercial use of knowledge and resources available at public universities and
research centers by the private sector. This essentially required (i) a change in the legal
regime that created several obstacles to PPPs and (ii) a more efficient use of public
incentives to R&D activities that only in tax-breaks added up to US$ 1.8 billion in 2003.

Through their impacts on private sector investments and productivity, the measures
included in the Growth Program seemed to be sufficient to deliver significant effects in
terms of economic growth and poverty reduction.2 Furthermore, to construct a sound
growth strategy, Brazil needed to pursue reforms in a sequence that makes both political
and economic sense, as international experience has shown that theoretically good reform
programs may fail due to poor sequencing.3 In particular, unpopular measures were taken
at the macroeconomic front to keep inflation under control, reducing the political capital
available for more ambitious structural reforms. Overall, measures included in the
Growth Program consisted of a coherent set of politically feasible short run measures to
foster long-term growth and reduce poverty that are consistent with good macroeconomic
management and a broader development strategy.

4. The Current Operation

Therefore, there is a close relationship between the development strategy, the broader
microeconomic growth agenda and the growth program defined in this operation (see
Figure 1). Development strategy includes growth determinants such as macroeconomic
stability and education, which are not supported by the present program. The Growth
Agenda contains elements that are excluded from the program for now, but could be
brought within its framework depending on changes in the economic and political
conditions. Thus, the current operation supported the definition of the Growth Program
as well as key preliminary actions (triggers for the first operation) in each of its four
areas.

The government's Growth Program is presented in two official documents: "Roadmap
for the New Economic Development Agenda" (Roteiro para a Nova Agenda de
Desenvolvimento Econômico)--launched jointly by the Ministries of Finance, Planning
and Development as well as the Chief of Staff--and the multiyear plan (PPA 2004-07)


2 A World Bank study estimates that preventing banking crises, deepening financial intermediation,
reducing government burden on business and improving infrastructure could raise Brazil's growth rates by
two to three percentage points (Loayza, P., P. Fajnzylber and C. Calderon. "Economic Growth in Latin
America and the Caribbean." The World Bank, 2003). These reform categories account for about half of
the authors' estimate of the impact of all possible growth reforms for Brazil: in other words, the Growth
Program proposed here, consisting of transport, business environment, financial and innovation policies,
represents a critical mass of Brazil's reform agenda for economic growth. Assuming reforms with only half
this impact, it is estimated that the present reform program could have growth effects of the order of one
percent per year if pursued to completion.
3Some reforms require institutional changes that may have been underemphasized. Others take time to
deliver their ultimate results. Speed and sequencing, therefore, matter. In Brazil, certain reforms ­ for
example, further social security reform or drastically reducing directed credit ­ would face sufficient
resistance as to be unlikely in the short run, and could easily undermine support for other advisable and less
sensitive reforms.


                                                                                                            4

sent to the Congress in September 2003.4 A third document, "Industrial, Technology, and
Trade Policy" (Diretrizes de Política Industrial, Tecnológica e de Comércio Exterior)
complements the strategy, establishing technology diffusion as one of the priorities in the
innovation field.


                                                  Figure 1
      Government's Development Strategy, the Broad Growth Agenda and the Growth Program




                           Growth Program
                                                                              Development
                            Logistics                     Growth Agenda       Strategy
                            Business Environment
                            Financial Sector                Trade Policy        Macroeconomic
                            Innovation                      Taxation            management
                                                            Labor               Education
                                                            Contracts           Institutions and
                                                                                Governance




Key initial steps for the implementation of the logistics sector program supported by the
operation included (i) the approval of a reform strategy for customs; and (ii) the approval
and implementation of a new legal and institutional framework for federal transport
administration, including the establishment of sector regulators for water and land-based
transportation (ANTT and ANTAQ, respectively). In the business environment area, (i)
an improved bankruptcy law was approved by the Lower House; (ii) two key draft
laws--on PPPs and on the role and attributions of regulatory agencies--were sent to the
Congress; and (iii) a reform proposal for the antitrust system was prepared. A key step in
the financial sector was the passage of the Amendment to Article 192 of the Constitution,
which opened the way for modifications in the legislation governing financial system
regulation and soundness, hitherto blocked by this Article.5 Also, a draft complementary
law was sent to Congress to extend the antitrust regime to the banking industry. Finally,
in the innovation field, a new "Innovation Law" was sent to Congress providing better
incentives for technology transfer between public and private entities as well as for public
sector researchers to benefit from their own scientific work. The implementation of


4 The former stresses the role of microeconomic and institutional reforms: "The creation of a new
development agenda must have as a primary objective the promotion of sustainable development with
improving social welfare and income distribution [...] To attain this objective, microeconomic and
institutional reforms are important, to improve economic efficiency and stimulate investment and savings."
5The Amendment to Article 192 is important because its original text prevented the passage of separate
laws governing the financial system.


                                                                                                         5

Fundo-Verde Amarelo, a competitive grant fund, also encourages better links between
public entities and the private sector.6

The Growth Program itself is a sufficient set of measures to establish the microeconomic
foundations of sustainable and equitable growth. Achievements clearly signaled the
Government's commitment to the program. Therefore, and although clear objective
outcomes are expected only by the end of the Program, we consider the outcome of the
operation to be highly satisfactory.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

With deep macroeconomic reforms but low and erratic growth, Brazil had proved that
stabilization was not enough to guarantee economic growth by itself. In the past decade,
Brazil has economically transformed itself and laid the institutional foundations for solid
macroeconomic management but average growth remained close to half the world and
Latin American countries (LAC) averages. While continued fiscal balance is the key to
reducing real interest rates in the long run, in the presence of many spending rigidities
this had cut into public investment, which had fallen to about 2.6 percent of GDP. Private
investment had also remained weak, partly due to a poor investment climate.

Also, success of structural reforms to foster economic growth had been considered
modest. Trade reform reduced average tariff levels from over 50 percent in 1990 to 14 in
1994. Brazil's privatization program was among the largest in the world with
approximately US$36 billion in public assets in the aeronautics, infrastructure and steel
sectors transferred to the private sector. Finally, financial liberalization was boosted by a
set of initiatives favoring FDI and portfolio investments. Although some analysts had
argued that the disappointing growth dividend from the 1990's reforms had its roots in
the incompleteness of some of the "first-generation" reforms, a consensus around the
ideas that further "first-generation" reforms may be neither politically feasible nor
recommendable in the absence of other microeconomic and institutional reforms had
emerged.

Indeed, trade liberalization occurred almost two times faster than in the Korean Republic
but against a background of labor market rigidities, capital market imperfections, poor
infrastructure services, and low external financing. Privatization in electricity and
transportation failed to generate sufficient competition or service expansion because it
preceded the establishment of appropriate legal and institutional framework for
regulation. It has been this regulatory incompleteness and instability--not the
incompleteness of privatization--that has curtailed private infrastructure investment.
Poor enforcement hampers competition law and policy, burdensome licensing procedures
lead to firm informality and the bankruptcy law until recently provided few incentives for
financial turnaround. High financial spreads are essentially caused by taxation,
mandatory credit lines at administered interest rates and lack of creditor's rights.



6For further details please see second column of table in Annex 2.


                                                                                           6

Further unilateral trade reforms and privatizations would have been politically difficult in
Brazil in the face of opposition from diverse political groups. Protecting fiscal discipline
should certainly take precedence and has already cost the government some political
capital with its traditional base. Public servants have strongly opposed social security
reform. Social tensions have been raised by high unemployment rate and rising violent
crime in urban areas and rural land conflicts. Reforms that impose high costs in the short
run on the affected groups--or that appear ideologically confrontational--may have not
represented an adequate reform path. At the same time, other key microeconomic
impediments to investment, innovation and productivity provided an opportunity to
galvanize growth at a lower political cost.

In sum, political and fiscal constraints and a clear perception that sound macroeconomic
management and structural reforms may not be enough to create the institutional
conditions for long-term growth were key factors favoring the design and implementation
of the Growth Program. The microeconomic agenda, then, provided the chance to
reinforce the macroeconomic and social reforms that Brazil had started to build in recent
years. In fact, it seems that the growth performance of the Brazilian economy in 2004--a
5.2 percent GDP growth, the best rate of the last 10 years--is closely related to an
increase in private sector's confidence motivated, at least in part, by a combination of
sound macroeconomic management and key initiatives to establish the institutional and
long-term conditions for sustainable growth or, simply, to improve the investment
climate.

The Growth Program is further supported by an accompanying Technical Assistance
Loan (TAL). Although signature by the Brazilian government is still pending--which
reflects mostly the incidence of higher bureaucratic requirements as compared to fast-
disbursing operations--several activities are already under implementation based on
retroactive financing, strengthening the country's commitment with the microeconomic
reform agenda. Among the activities financed under the TAL, studies on the impact of
judiciary bottlenecks on private sector performance are of major relevance and have
contributed to the design of the legal reforms submitted by the government in this field.
Overall, the support to Ministries involved in the four pillars of the FPLSEG is essential
in generating the reform progress for subsequent loans in the program.



6. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operations

Nowadays, the Brazilian economy fulfills the general conditions needed to begin a new
phase of sustainable growth. Significant progress was achieved since the loan was
disbursed in early 2004, particularly in the fields of business environment and innovation.
Progress was achieved in the other two areas (logistics and the financial sector) even
though in a slower pace. Overall, the government has been giving clear signs of its
commitment to broaden its microeconomic agenda (and not only with the narrower set of
reforms supported by the FPLSEG): the most notable evidence is the recently approved
operation to support microeconomic and institutional reforms in housing financing as
well as significant improvements in housing policies. As discussed in the FPLSEG



                                                                                          7

Program Document, the decline in investments in the housing sector since the late 1980's
caused a major decrease in investment ratios for the overall economy and, therefore, on
long-term growth prospects.7 Yet, concrete steps were taken in terms of implementation
of the core areas selected by the Program.

On the logistics side, 3,432 km and 3,446 km were transferred from the federal
government to the states in 2004 and 2005, respectively, increasing the potential for road
maintenance activities. Also, the second phase of the federal road concession program, of
about 3,059km, is to be launched, after several years of intense questioning from
Tribunal de Contas da União. In addition, new contracts for efficient highway
maintenance and rehabilitation were signed in 2004.8

On the business environment area, a major step was the approval by Congress of the PPP
Law (Law 11,079/2004). On a lower scale, but also important, a law that provides for a
Career Development Plan of Regulatory Agencies' Staff (Law 10,871/2004) was also
approved, allowing for the establishment of a stable corps of qualified professionals. In
order to simplify firm registry, the government is supporting Congress Bill of Law
number 210/2004 that facilitates the formalization of micro-enterprises particularly
through the full-exemption of federal taxes and changes in the Social Security
requirements. The final approval of the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Law (Law
11,101/2005) is of pivotal relevance: not only because the reform process was delayed for
more than ten years in Congress but also because its impact on improving firms'
turnaround and preserving intangible assets is expected to be high.9 Significant initiatives
for the reform of the judiciary, an area in which the government originally had lower
expectations, were also undertaken with government sponsoring several bills of Law to
improve procedural issues and support alternative dispute resolutions mechanisms.10


With the objective of mobilizing long-term resources in the insurance sector, a law
providing for the opening of the reinsurance market was sent to Congress. In November
2004, the Federal Government launched the National Program of Oriented Productive
Micro Credit (PNMPO), aimed at expanding access to productive credit for formal and
informal micro-entrepreneurs (Provisional Measure 226/2004).                         Most notably, Law
number 10,931/2004 developed and improved financing and securitization instruments


7See Annex 6 (p. 148) of World Bank Report No. 27507-BR.
8Auctions were initiated for more than 7,000km. On the customs side, subject to further verification, data
provided by the Federal Revenue Secretariat, show some progress: the net average time for export
clearance was reduced in approximately 40% between January of 2004 and April of 2005, decreasing from
17h34min to 10h12min; while the average net time for customs clearance procedures for imports was
reduced in approximately 28%, decreasing from 21h32min in the same period. Progress in selectivity levels
was less significant.
9The new Bankruptcy and Insolvency Law (Law 1,101/2005) was complemented by important changes in
the National Tax Code that were also approved in 2005.
10These include: (i) procedural reform in court ruling (Bill of Law 52/2004); (ii) procedural reform for out-
of court securities settlements (Bill of Law 4,497/2004); and (iii) other projects of reform of the Civil-Law
Code of Procedures [(a) Bill of Law 4,724/2004, (b) Bill of Law 4,728/2004, (c) Bill of Law 4,726/2004,
(d) Bill of Law 4,727/2004, (e) Bill of Law 4,729/2004, (f) Bill of Law 4,725/2004 and (g) Bill of Law
4,723/2004)].


                                                                                                            8

for the real estate segment.11 Furthermore, two new instruments--the Real Estate Credit
Bill (CCI) and the Real Estate Letter of Credit (LCI)--were created to complete the
existing framework.12

Finally, on the innovation side, the Brazilian government approved an Innovation Law
(Law on Incentives to Research and Innovation, Law 10,973/2004). This is a very
important step towards a more efficient use of scientific knowledge in the Brazilian
economy. The envisaged instruments include the possibility of agreements between
public entities and private companies, the transfer of technology and sharing the public
infrastructure of laboratories, equipment and instruments with private companies.
Additionally, the Ministry of Science and Technology (MCT) took several initial steps to
rationalize the use of public resources available to finance R&D activities through the
"Sector Funds."

These achievements illustrate, therefore, an impressive development in the core reform
areas. Two essential legal pieces for the business environment--the PPP and the
Bankruptcy Laws in December 2004--were approved according to the time-frame
established by the Growth Program. In addition a third one the Innovation Law, a
relatively more controversial law was also approved. Moreover, areas originally
conceived as part of the broader Growth Agenda due to their relatively higher levels of
complexity--as the judiciary reform and the housing finance--had seen significant
improvement. These results are fully consistent with the triggers established for a second
operation of the Growth Program in the calendar year of 2005.

As a caveat, it is important to note that progress, although extremely relevant, was mainly
at the level of legal changes (as opposed to policy changes): on logistics, for example,
where policy change was at stake, progress is happening at a much slower pace. This has
two implications for a possible third operation in calendar year 2006. First, as additional
policy changes become the triggers for further Bank support (once most pending reform
are achieved), implementation of the Growth Program may become more difficult and
slow down. Second, even if legal actions remain relevant for the program, the Congress'
agenda for the next months seems tremendously occupied by different priorities while the
presidential elections will tend to slow down the speed of legislative activity in 2006.


11The purpose of the adopted measures is to encourage the development of private financing in civil
construction by introducing and enhancing credit and securitization instruments, improving the legal
certainty for borrowers and financers (through instruments such as the Property Liens on Real-Estate
Developments, the Real-Estate Letter of Credit and the Real-Estate Credit Bill) and creating a more
efficient tax regime.
12These securities, previously created by a Provisional Measure in 2001, were included in Complementary
Law number 10,931/2004, in order to consolidate their effectiveness and to provide more legal certainty in
contracts. Another important credit instrument was the Bank Credit Bill (CCB), backed by bank loan
portfolios to provide financial agents with an expeditious tool and enough legal certainty to ensure effective
reduction in defaults and in the time it takes to resolve conflicts. In addition, the creation of this new credit
instrument, backed by securities based on existing loans, allows creditors to dilute the risks associated with
these operations. This Banking Credit Bill (CCB) is an exclusively extra-judiciary title, which ensures
greater certainty and more expeditious resolution of legal conflicts. The CCB was initially introduced by
Provisional Measure number 2,160/2001, and it was later on refined and finally regulated by Law number
10,931/2004. Part of these results is supported by the Brazil-Programmatic Loan for Sustainable and
Equitable Growth-Housing Sector Reform. World Bank Report No. 31756-BR


                                                                                                              9

Overall there seems to be no doubts about the existence of significant and sustained
progress in the main areas covered by the proposed loan and program, in particular with
the approval of three key draft legislation, namely the Bankruptcy, PPP and Innovation
Laws. Progress in microeconomic reform has emerged in other areas too, as in the case
of the housing sector. As a further sign of commitment with the Growth Program, the
government included most of additional public expenditures related to the institutional
and microeconomic reforms, such as investments in road maintenance, modernization of
custom equipment and science and technology, in the list of priorities for the IMF Pilot
Project on Public Investment and Fiscal Policy.                  13 In this context, we rate the
sustainability of the program as highly likely.




7. Bank and Borrower Performance


The FPLSEG is built on recent lending and analytical work done by the Bank. In
particular, it is built on earlier adjustment and technical assistance (TA) lending for the
financial and the energy sectors reforms as well as investment and TA lending for
transport infrastructure and science and technology. The proposal is based on extensive
recent analytical work, including a growth report, a report on financial access, assessment
of the regulatory framework, a trade policy report and a labor market report. It is also
complemented by the Fiscal Reform Program of policy based loans, which will continue
to reinforce economic stability and the Human Development Program, which inter alia
supports growth-enhancing educational reforms. Overall, the loan is a centerpiece of the
Bank's planned support to a high performing government in a key strategic policy area.14

The programmatic framework initiated by the proposed loan aims to strengthen the
cohesion of a complex set of reforms touching a number of sectors, ministries, and
agencies. A companion technical assistance loan was prepared to provide support in the
implementation of the program. The Bank provided technical advice in the selection of
the priority areas, the identification of key measures within each area (triggers), and the
definition of clear and measurable goals (output indicators) for the program during the
identification phase of loan preparation. The Bank was instrumental in supporting
consensus-building among different sectors of the government, actively helping in the
assessment of short-term impacts of reforms as well as potential winners and losers. In
general, the program and the corresponding first operation were well designed and
consistent with the Bank's country strategy and with its objective of creating the
microeconomic foundation of long-term growth in Brazil




13As in Tesouro Nacional: Pilot Project Portfolio (confidential document). Undated, mimeo.
14 Part of this analytical work is reflected in the official document: "Roadmap for the New Economic
Development Agenda" (Roteiro para a Nova Agenda de Desenvolvimento Econômico)--launched jointly
by the Ministries of Finance, Planning and Development as well as the Chief of Staff.



                                                                                                 10

In addition, the Bank provided timely support to an important transition in Brazil. The
operation was prepared during the first year of President da Silva's administration, who
was elected with strong support by social movements but had to adopt very unpopular
measures ­ cutting expenditures and increasing interest rates ­ during the first months.
On the other hand, the contrasting profiles of the new and the outgoing administrations
reduced investors' confidence and the short-term prospects for international financing. In
this context, the Bank's financial assistance helped Brazil meet its external obligations at
the same time that allowed the new administration to build a reputation of good
macroeconomic management. In fact, as a result of sound macroeconomic management,
sovereign spreads of Brazilian debt reduced 2.2 percentage points during 2004.

Finally, the operation provided significant synergies with IFC activities and was strongly
complementary to Brazil's program with the IMF. In FY2003 the IFC focused one-third
of its lending in utilities; in 2002 the IFC largest concentration was in finance and
insurance. IFC port operations (e.g., in Salvador) also support program goals in logistics.
Furthermore, the program focus on infrastructure regulation will support potential IFC
lending into energy, road, rail, and water.15 Moreover, the measures supported by the
proposed program both reinforce economic stability, and therefore the objectives of the
IMF program with Brazil, and receive support form macroeconomic stability, which is
fundamental for private-sector investment and innovation.

Overall, the FPLSEG seems to have been a timely instrument for knowledge and
financing transferring during a complex transition. In fact, Bank's Operations, Policy and
Country Services department has selected this operation as an example of well-conceived
Development Policy Loan and used it as material for training courses within the Bank. In
this context, Bank's performance may be considered highly satisfactory.

Brazil has used the programmatic framework successfully in the recent past, with two
loans each made under the Fiscal Reform Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan
series and the Financial Sector Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan series,
respectively. Most recently, in June 2003, Brazil launched a further programmatic loan
series in the area of human development policies. This reputation has been significantly
enhanced since the FSEGL, with several other fast-disbursing operations being developed
to support environmental, fiscal and housing sector reforms.

The government's program was ambitious, technically sound, internally consistent, and
politically feasible. Its sequencing and timing was propitious. The Program was designed
in a particularly complex moment for a new administration: in 2003, highly unpopular
macroeconomic measures were undertaken and pressure for interventionist industrial
policies were rising at the microeconomic front in part as a compensation for decline in
economic activity and increase in unemployment. The government, however, managed to



15IFC lending also aims to increase SME access to credit and to support well designed micro-finance
initiatives, both also objectives of the present program. The loan also builds on work for the Brazilian
Government completed by the Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) run jointly by the Bank and
IFC and could create synergies with further technical assistance by FIAS, particularly at the state level.


                                                                                                          11

find the right balance between political feasibility, on the one hand; and technical
coherence and impact, on the other.

After the operation, the implementation of the program continued, as discussed in section
6 of this report. These include important legislative initiatives, the strengthening of inter-
ministerial institutions such as the Economic Policy and Infrastructure Committees; and
the issuing of White Papers defining the Growth Program and infrastructure regulatory
policy. Even in areas outside the program defined within this document, but within a
broader growth agenda, such as the labor code and contract enforcement, the Government
has launched initiatives toward achieving meaningful reforms within its mandate. By the
end of 2004, the government edited a new document, summarizing its main achievements
and the challenge ahead.16 The document was well received by the private sector and
helped to further consolidate the Program. In light of the complexity of the program, the
political circumstance and the results so far, we consider the Borrower's performance to
be highly satisfactory.

To implement its strategy, the government has put particular emphasis on consensus
building mechanisms. Within the government, the coordination of the program will be
done by the Câmara de Política Econômica. Other inter-ministerial committees have
been created or will be revitalized, namely the Câmara de Infra-Estrutura, the Conselho
Nacional de Ciência e Tecnologia (CCT), and the Grupo de Trabalho do Mercado de
Capitais. The Conselho de Desenvolvimento Econômico is another important mechanism,
which aims to improve the dialogue with stakeholders including civil society and the
private sector. All these institutions are still in place and operating. In this context, we
considered the institutional development impact of the operation to be satisfactory.


8. Partner Comments


                                    EVALUATION REPORT17

     First Operation: Programmatic Loan for Structural Adjustment of Equitable and
                                    Sustainable Economic Growth

With the objective of moving ahead on an agenda of socially fair microeconomic reforms
capable of promoting sustainable economic growth, the Brazilian government requested a
World Bank adjustment loan to structure and monitor a program of equitable and
sustainable economic growth.



16Ministry of Finance (2004): Microeconomic Reforms and Long-term Growth, Brasilia, December.
17This is a non-official translation of the official document "Avaliação do Governo Brasileiro relativa à
Primeira Fase do Empréstimo Programático", sent by Marcelo Leandro Ferreira, chief of Staff of
Secretaria de Política Econômica do Ministério da Fazenda by e-mail in may 27 2005. This translation
was prepared by Iara Cristina da Silva Alves.



                                                                                                      12

The cornerstone for the microeconomic reform agenda rests on a commitment to fiscal
responsibility, and inflation and floating exchange rate objectives. The Brazilian
economy is currently experiencing favorable macroeconomic conditions that include
fiscal solvency, low inflation and solidity of external accounts.

The outstanding performance of the economy over the past two years mirrors the success
of previous macroeconomic policies. In 2004, the gross domestic product grew by 5.2% -
the best performance of the past 10 years. The country's industrial production grew by
8.3 percent. Between April 2004 and April 2005 the unemployment rate fell by 2.3
percent, and 1.5 million new formal jobs were created. Brazilian exports have been
surpassing their own records on a monthly basis and have already gone beyond the
benchmark of US$100 billion per year ­ resulting in a projected commercial balance of
over US$ 30 billion in 2005. The primary results of the public sector reached 4.4% of the
GDP during 2003-2004, and led to a reduction of the debt/GDP ratio by over five
percentage points.

The good macroeconomic results have fostered a positive environment in which the
country can dedicate itself to implementing the microeconomic reform agenda. In this
sense, and to ensure equitable and sustainable economic growth, the Brazilian
government focused on the following main objectives: (i) the reduction of logistics costs;
(ii) the improvement of the business environment; (iii) the increase of efficiency and
scope of the National Financial System; and (iv) the increase of the capacity to innovate.

Main Advances in the Reform Agenda

As part of an agreement to transfer federal roads to the states, in 2004 and 2005, 3,432.3
km and 3,446.3 km of roadways were placed under state management, respectively. New
criteria for roadway concessions were also established and new contracts for the
maintenance and rehabilitation of 8,000 km of the road network were signed in 2004. An
auction for the concession of 3,059 km of highways is scheduled to take place in 2005.

As regards the ports sector, the government created an inter-ministerial group to review
the sector's regulatory structure, to coordinate the formulation of policies and to establish
norms for port administration.

According to data from the Federal Revenue Secretariat, the average net time for customs
clearance procedures for exports fell from 17 hours 34 minutes to 10 hours 12 minutes
between January 2004 and April 2005, a 40 percent reduction. The average net time for
customs clearance procedures for imports was reduced by approximately 28 percent,
from 21 hour 32 minutes in January 2004 to 15 hours 28 minutes in April 2005.

There were also important advances in the level of selectivity in exports and imports. The
level of selectivity in exports fell from 23.29 percent in January 2004 to 22.11 percent in
April 2005. Although this reduction of the selectivity level may seem small, it is
important to note that during the same period, export declarations increased by 35 percent
(from 87,365 in January 2004 to 117,837 in April 2005). This reduction resulted in a



                                                                                          13

significant increase of exports and thus required greater effort on behalf of customs to
continue reducing the levels of selectivity. It is also worth mentioning that the 22.11
percent level of selectivity for exports, as of April 2005 was close to the mid-term goal of
20 percent established in the guidelines for actions and in the program indicators. In
imports, the level of selectivity was reduced from 28.96 percent in January 2004 to 24.81
percent in April 2005. It is important to highlight that this reduction was attained during a
period in which the declarations of imports increased in 22.8 percent, from 68,424
declarations in January 2004 to 84,164 in April 2005.

An important advance was made in the business environment by approval of the Law for
Public-Private Partnerships (Lei das Parcerias Público-Privadas ­ N.º 11.079/2004).
This Law will allow the country to invest in infrastructure projects that yield positive
results. In those cases in which the social benefit of a project is greater than the private
benefits, the private legislation makes partnerships between the public and private sectors
viable so that the private sector takes over of the costs of the project that cannot be
recovered by means of the private economic exploitation of the undertaking.

The reform of the bankruptcy laws in Brazil was concluded with Law 11,101/2005 and
Complementary Law 118/2005. The latter legal instrument made changes to the
dispositions of the National Tax Code and is considered one of the most important
measures for the improvement of the business environment. These two laws align the
legislation concerning bankruptcy in Brazil with international practices. It is important to
highlight that among the positive aspects of this new set of laws, which counts on great
participation on behalf of creditors, are the conditions for the recovery of economically
viable businesses facing financial distress. In the case of bankruptcy, the new legislation
allows for prompt liquidation of the bankrupt estate thus maximizing the amount paid to
creditors and, at the same time, avoiding the loss of tangible and intangible assets and the
firing of employees. The changes made to the National Tax Code put an end to the series
of taxes on the sale of assets of the bankrupt estate. In other words, the person or
company who is acquiring the assets of the bankrupt estate is no longer responsible for
taxes that existed at the moment of sale. It is worth mentioning that the taxes discouraged
the acquisition of assets of bankrupt businesses, as acquisition of such assets also meant
taking over contingent liabilities of unknown size that might not have been identified by
the revenue services until the date of sale.

The new bankruptcy legislation also introduces dispositions that tend to facilitate the
proper working of the credit market and that bring positive impacts on the reduction of
banking spreads. The new law changes the order of priorities for receiving credits in case
of bankruptcy, and places priority on credit to employees up to the limit of 150 minimum
wages, followed by secured credits. It is worth highlighting that the priority of secured
credits was greatly increased through the new law, when compared to the previous law.
This change increases the probability that creditors with secured credits will receive their
receivables and thus collaborates to the development and proper working of the credit
market.




                                                                                          14

To disseminate the new bankruptcy law within the legal profession, among other
initiatives to be undertaken within the Growth Program, a technical assistance loan
associated with the loan was contracted within the scope of a Support Program to the
Agenda of Equitable and Sustainable Economic Growth (PACE). A series of training and
professional improvement courses were offered to judges and attorneys general with the
objective of the effective implementation of the bankruptcy law. The Getúlio Vargas
Foundation ­ an institution that provides graduate, post-graduate courses and continuing
education, will offer these courses. Also under the scope of PACE, the Secretariat of
Economic Laws of the Ministry of Justice is undertaking the implementation of a
scholarship program for academic research (graduate and post-graduate) in Bankruptcy
Law, a national contest of papers on the new bankruptcy law, and the establishment of a
reference library on Bankruptcy Law.

Still as regards the Bankruptcy Law, it is important to highlight the creation of a court
specialized in bankruptcy in the state of São Paulo. The court is comprised of two judges
and will start its work when the new law is enacted, on June 9, 2005.

As regards the increase of efficiency of the National Financial System, the Central Bank
of Brazil is still analyzing the second phase of the Brazilian Payment Systems. This
analysis should be disclosed shortly. As regards insurance, the Executive Power
forwarded a bill to the National Congress about the opening of a reinsurance market,
which is currently monopolized by the State. The opening of the market should foster
increased competitiveness in the securities sector, enlarge the diversity of products and
reduce their costs.

The Executive Power has already completed another bill that legislates the activities of
the credit protection data bank. This new legislation will soon be sent to the National
Congress. With this, a gap in the Brazilian legislation is closed, as activities pertaining to
credit protection data banks were ruled by a single article of the Code of Consumer's
Protection (Código de Defesa do Consumidor). This article greatly limited the
development of such activity, as the existing data banks acted basically on the
distribution of negative information about borrowers (for example, the Credit Protection
System). The new regulations permit the dissemination of positive information and thus
reduce the asymmetry of information by allowing creditors to make a better distinction
between good and bad payers. It is important to mention that the disclosure of positive
information is also important as a tool to make credit cheaper for the low-income
population, since they generally don't have guarantees to offer when requesting a loan.
Therefore, this segment of the population would benefit from positive information such
as a good credit record to obtain lower interest rates and better payment conditions.

The introduction of the loan modality that allows loan installments to be directly
deducted from employees' pay checks (Law N.º 10.820/2003 and Law N.º 10.953/2004)
will increase access to credit and reduce costs. This new credit modality has a smaller
risk. As a result, it has become one of the credit operations that offer the market's lowest
rates. When compared to rates charged by other personal credit operations, the average
monthly rate of this credit modality was of 2.8 percent in November 2004 ­ much lower



                                                                                           15

than the average monthly rate of personal credit operations (4.7 percent), and
approximately one third of the average monthly rate charged for overdraft limits on
checking accounts (7.6 percent). The amount loaned in these operations practically
doubled during 2004--from around R$ 6 billion in January 2004 to approximately R$ 12
billion at the end of the year. The development of this modality helped demonstrate the
important role played by low risks of loan delinquency, and of the legal security of
operations toward making credit cheaper and increasing access to it ­ a fact that
especially benefits low-income populations.

The Brazilian government has also been making a permanent evaluation of the existing
mechanisms for micro-credit. Some measures taken in 2003, in the area of micro-
finances, had a positive impact especially upon what concerns the population's use of the
banking system. By September 2004, 3.4 million simplified bank accounts had been
opened. The impact of the measure that handled the concession of credit of up to R$
1,000.00 to micro-businessmen and the low-income population was lower than expected
in terms of the credit amount. The measure was based on the forwarding of two percent
of up-front deposits and with interest rates limited to two percent per month. In addition
to this, 95% of the operations made were directly mainly at consumption credit. In this
sense, Resolution N.º 3,229/2004 of the National Monetary Council minimized the
restrictions for the application to resources resulting from the two percent of up-front
deposit requirement and authorized financial institutions to charge rates higher than two
percent per month, but limited to four percent per month, provided the credit was aimed
at production. To facilitate collecting delinquent receivables, Bill 1,355 was forwarded to
the National Congress in 2003. The bill allows Civil Society Organizations of Public
Interest (OSCIP) and Societies of Credit to Micro-businessmen (SCM) to go to special
courts for the collection of their receivables.

To increase the Brazilian economy's capacity to innovate, Law 10,973/2004 aims to
overcome the historical obstacles that exist for the cooperation between public research
institutes and the private sector. The new legislation provides for the creation of such
legal regime. The Law refers to these institutions as Scientific and Technological
Institutions (ICT) and allows for the knowledge generated within them to be absorbed
and applied by private companies for commercial purposes. Among the instruments
established by the Law are: covenant agreements between the ICTs and private
companies, the transfer of technology developed by the ICT to the private sector upon
payment of royalties and participation in the company's earnings, the participation of
public researchers in projects of other ICTs and the sharing of infrastructure of
laboratories and equipment with private companies that are involved with innovation
projects.

Conclusion

The measures taken during the past 18 months are jointly responsible for great
advancements in the improvement of the country's institutions, and aim at the building-
up of an institutional environment that is adequate to the good performance of a market
economy. The positive impacts of the reforms that have been implemented up to now, as



                                                                                        16

regards the increase in the potential economic growth rate of the country, reduction of the
market's interest rates, among others, should become evident during the next few years ­
as the Brazilian government continues to move ahead on the agenda of micro-economic
institutional reform.

In order for the reforms to proceed, the following deserve special mention:

- Continuity in the implementation of the new bankruptcy law;

- Continuous improvement of existing credit instruments and the development of new
instruments that are legally safer and that favor the development of the credit market and
the increase of credit to the private sector as a proportion of the GDP;

- Continuity of monitoring and evaluation of existing micro-credit mechanisms so as to
allow for the continuous improvement of these programs;

- Reduction of transaction costs by disseminating experiences in simplifying the
registration and legalization of companies, with emphasis placed on the unification of
data input and the synchronization of several rosters;

- Introduction of mechanisms to evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of public
expenditures on innovation.

The country's current economic situation is quite favorable for advances in this reform
agenda to continue being made. In this sense, the Brazilian government would like to
continue counting on the support of the World Bank during a second stage of the
Programmed Adjustment Loan.




                                                                                        17

                           ANNEX 1: Key Performance Indicators

Table 1: Brazil - Selected Economic Indicators
                             Table 1: Principal Economic Indicators
                                       2000        2001       2002      2003    2004e
Real GDP Growth (percent)                  4.4        1.3        1.9      (0.2)    3.5

IPCA Inflation (percent)                   6.0        7.7        12.5      9.3     5.5

SELIC Target Interest Rate                15.8       17.5       19.20     23.5    16.4
(average)
Nominal Balance (PSBR, percent of         (4.5)      (5.2)      (10.3)    (3.7)   (2.6)
GDP)
Primary Balance (percent of GDP)           3.5        3.6         3.9      4.3     4.6

Net Public Sector Dept (percent of        48.8       52.6        55.5     58.2    57.3
GDP)
Trade Balance (US$ billion)               (0.8)       2.7        13.2     24.8    33.7

Current Account (US$ billion)            (24.3)     (23.2)       (7.7)     4.1    (2.4)

FDI (US$ billion)                         32.8       22.5        16.6     10.1    13.0




                                                                                    18

                                                        ANNEX 2: Matrix of Key Actions and Indicators

Area/Policy            Prior Actions            Key Next Steps              Medium-Term Actions                Evaluation at the          Expected Outcome
                                                                                                               time of the ICR            Indicators
                       · Adequate macro-economic framework
                       · Satisfactory Growth Program and Publication of White Paper
Reduce Logistics Costs
 1. Improve Customs    · Customs Reform           · Selectivity level cut     · Clearance systems and                                     · Average gross release time
    Effectiveness        Strategy approved           from 40 percent to          procedures streamlined and                                 decreased from 5 to 3 days
                                                     30 percent                  adapted to expanded                                        (imports) and from 2.0 days to
                                                  · Average net release          Customs' mission and                                       1.0 day (exports)
                                                     time cut by 20              selectivity cut to 20 percent
                                                     percent
 2. Reduce Port Costs                             · Productivity              · Port authorities restructured                             · Average cargo transit time
    and Delays                                       improvement plan            and productivity plan                                      through port cut from 13.8 to 10
                                                     approved                    implemented                                                days for imports and 8.4 to 5 days
                                                                                                                                            for exports; average container
                                                                                                                                            handling cost cut by 10 percent

 3. Reduce Transport   · Law reorganizing         · Output based              · Road network classification     · Approximately 6900      · 50 percent of road network in
    Costs on Federal     Federal Transport           maintenance/rehab           Law approved (what Law is        km were decentralized     good condition (as evaluated by
    Road Network         Administration              contracts on 30             this ­ I have not seen any                                 the International Roughness
                         approved and                percent of federal          reference to this)             · New criteria for the      Index),
                         implemented                 road network             · In addition to road               concession of federal   · Average road transport costs
                       · 9percent of non-trunk    · Further 12 percent           concessions existing in 2003,    highways were             decreased 5 percent
                         roads on remaining          of non-trunk roads          further 5 percent of the         established.            · Total of 25 percent of non-trunk
                         federal network             on remaining federal        remaining federal network                                  roads on remaining federal
                         transferred to state        network transferred         under concession                                           network transferred to state
                         management                  to state management                                        · New contracts for         management
                                                                                                                  highway maintenance
                                                                                                                  and rehabilitation were
                                                                                                                  signed

 4. Foster Multi-modal · Geographical                                                                                                     · 50 percent of road network in
    Transport            restructuring of                                                                                                   good condition (as evaluated by
                         railway concessions                                                                                                the International Roughness
                         underway                                                                                                           Index),
                                                                                                                                          · Average road transport costs
                                                                                                                                            decreased 5 percent
                                                                                                                                          · Total of 25 percent of non-trunk
                                                                                                                                            roads on remaining federal
                                                                                                                                            network transferred to state
                                                                                                                                            management




                                                                                                                                                                                 19

Area/Policy              Prior Actions                  Key Next Steps        Medium-Term Actions            Evaluation at the             Expected Outcome
                                                                                                             time of the ICR               Indicators
    Improve the Business Environment
 1. Strengthen           · Creation of land and          · PPP Law            · Law on Career Development    · PPP Law approved          · 5 Public-Private Partnerships
    Infrastructure          water transport                 approved by         Plan for Regulators approved                               projects approved
    Regulation              regulatory agencies             Congress            by Congress                  · Law on Career
                            (ANTT and ANTAQ)             · Draft Law on                                         Development Plan of
                         · PPP Law submitted to             Career                                              Regulatory Agencies
                            Congress                        Development                                         approved.
                                                            Plan for
                                                            Regulators
                                                            submitted to
                                                            Congress
 2. Enhance the          · Amendments to Antitrust                            · Amendments to Antitrust                                  · Increase in number of "hard-
    Competitive             Law reviewed by inter-                              Law approved by Congress                                   core" cartel cases with national
    Environment             ministerial committee                                                                                          impact successfully prosecuted
                                                                                                                                         · Pre-merger notification made
                                                                                                                                           mandatory



 3. Simplify Entry and   · Constitutional                                      ·    Law regulating the         ·    Law that establishes · Time needed to register a firm
    Business Operation      amendment approved to,                                 unification of tax             a simplified taxation    decreased to 76 days in pilot
                            inter alia, unify tax                                  collection approved by         system for micro firms   cities
                            collection at federal, state                           Congress                       sent to congress
                            and municipal levels for
                            micro and small
                            companies
                         · Simplified procedures
                            for companies'
                            registration adopted in
                            some cities
                         · Export norms simplified
                            by MDIC


 4. Strengthen           · New Bankruptcy Law             · Bankruptcy Law    · Bankruptcy Law becomes        · Bankruptcy Law was       · Increased speed of recuperation /
    Corporate               and Tax Code                    enacted             effective                       approved                   resolution and higher recovery
    Insolvency              Amendment passed by           · Amendment to                                      · Amendment to the Tax       value of insolvent enterprises
    Framework               Lower House                     Tax Code                                            Code approved            · Reduced spreads in financial
                                                            enacted                                                                        intermediation
                                                          · Preparation
                                                            program initiated
                                                            for judiciary and
                                                            courts for new
                                                            Law




                                                                                                                                                                               20

Area/Policy              Prior Actions                Key Next Steps          Medium-Term Actions            Evaluation at the            Expected Outcome
                                                                                                             time of the ICR              Indicators
Enhance the Efficiency and Depth of the Financial System
 1. Increase Financial   · Draft                                              · Effectiveness of Banking      · Complementary           · Examination of market conduct
    Competition             Complementary Law,                                  Competition Law                 Banking competition       issues in banking sector by
                            extending application                                                               Law approved by the       competition authority initiated
                            of Antitrust to                                                                     final special committee · Reduced bank administrative
                            Banking, submitted                                                                  of congress and awaits    costs components in bank spreads
                            to Congress                                                                         deliberation by vote

 2. Sound Fundamental    · Constitutional            · Key legal initiatives  · Key legal reforms in          · Diagnostic study of the  · Legal framework and physical
    Legislation and         Amendment (Article         for financial reform     financial system voted by       present retail payment     infrastructure for financial
    Systemic Risk           192) approved              presented to             Congress                        system to investigate      system modernized; risks
    Control              · New large value             Congress               · Second phase (retail)           what innovations should    reduced and access to financial
                            payments system          · Evaluation of            payments system reform          be implemented             services expanded.
                            installed and              residual risk in the     launched.
                            operating                  payments system
                            successfully               completed
                                                     · Blueprint prepared
                                                       for second phase
                                                       payments reform
                                                       (retail payments)
 3. Mobilize Long-Term   · Regulations                                        · Extend permission for         · Proposal to restructure · Accelerated expansion of
    Resources in            strengthened on asset                               provision of reinsurance to      the Re-insurance         insurance industry assets on
    Insurance Sector        allocation, eligibility,                            new entrants                     industry sent to         sound basis
                            registration, custody                                                                Congress               · Enhanced service providers in
                            and audit                                                                                                     reinsurance
                            requirements
                            enhanced
 4. Improve Efficient    · Provisional Law and       · Evaluate impact of     · Passage through Congress of                             · Bank accounts (sight+savings)
    Financial Access for    Resolutions passed to      new microfinance         new factoring Law.                                        expanded from 95 (end 01') to
    the Poor and for        expand financial           measures in terms of   · Enhanced use of positive                                  103 million by 2006.
    SMEs                    access at banks            cost, outreach and       information for credit                                  · Increased credit availability on
                                                       impact.                  reporting                                                 sound footing to small borrowers
                                                     · Introduce small        · Reduction of tax write offs
                                                       claims courts for        for uncollected small claims
                                                       small credits
                                                     · Establish interlinkage
                                                       of credit registries




                                                                                                                                                                              21

Area/Policy               Prior Actions           Key Next Steps      Medium-Term Actions            Evaluation at the              Expected Outcome
                                                                                                     time of the ICR                Indicators
Increase Innovation Capacity to Transform Knowledge into Productivity Gains
  1. Increase Public R&D  · Innovation Law sent                        · Innovation Law approved by    · Innovation Law           · Number of technology transfer
     Effectiveness           to Congress                                 Congress                        approved                   contracts between public
                                                                                                                                    universities/research centers and
                                                                                                                                    the private sector increased by 20
                                                                                                                                    percent
  2. Foster Private       · Regulation of Fundo                        · Evaluation completed of       · Beginning of a re-       · 10 percentage point increase in
     Innovation              Verde-Amarelo and                           operations and management       structuration process of   privately funded R&D share in
                             other mechanisms to                         procedures of Sector Funds      the the Sector Funds's     total R&D expenditures
                             support private R&D                         and FINEP                       management
                             introduced                                                                · Steps for sector fund's
                                                                                                         evaluation taken

  3. Create Innovation in · Kyoto protocol                             · ICCC approval and                                        · US$100 million in sales of
     Environmental           ratified, ICCC                              monitoring systems                                         carbon credits
     Markets                 operational, and                            financially self-sustaining
                             CDM project
                             approval mechanism
                             published




                                                                                                                                                                         22

