Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7218 - BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(First Programmatic Adjustment Loan for Sustainable and Equitable 
Growth) 
 
between 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 21, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7218 - BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 2004, between the FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC 
OF BRAZIL (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter, dated January 20, 2004, from the 
Borrower: (i) describing its macroeconomic framework and a program of actions, 
objectives and policies to support a set of microeconomic and institutional reforms that 
will foster sustainable growth by favoring capital accumulation and productivity gains in 
Brazil, especially aiming at reducing logistics costs, enhancing business environment, 
improving financial sector efficiency, access and soundness, and increasing technological 
progress and innovation (the Program), which Program consists of actions that have 
already been taken as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the First Phase of the 
Program), and actions and policies that the Borrower intends to take and adopt in the near 
future; (ii) declaring the Borrowe
r’s commitment to the objectives of the Program; and 
(iii) requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; and 
(B) on 
the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the First Phase of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making 
the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the first phase of the program, referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is 
made.”; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is 
not the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 (b) of 
the Loan Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of 
the Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from 
the Loan Account the currency of such deposit account as shall be 
required to deposit the withdrawn amount into such deposit account.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the first phase of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08. 
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Central Bank” means 
Banco Central do Brasil
,
the Borrower's central 
bank; and 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to four hundred 
twenty-seven million two hundred thousand Euros (EUR 427,200,000), as such amount 
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of four hundred twenty-
two million nine hundred twenty-eight thousand Euros (EUR 422,928,000) from the 
Loan Account in support of the First Phase of the Program. 
(b) 
Prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request for withdrawal from the 
Loan Account, the Borrower shall open and thereafter maintain in the Central Bank a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  All 
withdrawals of the amount referred to in paragraph (a) above shall be deposited by the 
Bank into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.  
Section 2.06.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period, at 
the Variable Rate; provided that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09.  (a)  The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III 
Page  6
-
5
-
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01.  The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the 
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the First Phase of the Program, or any 
action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02.  Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four (4) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the First Phase of the Program. 
 
(b) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program, including any action listed in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the 
achievement of the objectives of the First Phase of the Program. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 5.01.  The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that this Agreement has been validly 
registered with the Central Bank. 
Section 5.02.  The date August 20, 2004, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministério da Fazenda 
 
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “P” - 8
°
andar 
 
70048-900 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 412-1740 
 
With copy to: 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5
°
andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 225-4022 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
Page  8
-
7
-
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or 
(202) 
477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the city of Brasília, Federal District, Brazil, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
By /s/ Antonio Palocci Filho 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Vinod Thomas 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, 
manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
Page  11
-
10
-
or worked 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and 
 
parts thereof; fuel 
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728                        
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
 
machinery  
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold, 
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
goldsmiths’ 
 
or
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including 
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragr
aph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
Page  12
-
11
-
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
First Phase of the Program
 
1. The 
Program, 
as reflected in the Borrower’s 
Roteiro para Agenda de 
Desenvolvimento
,
was made available to the public in July 2003. 
2. 
Progress has occurred in the geographical restructuring of railway concessions in 
the Borrower’s territory, with the definition of the restructuring approved by the 
Borrower as part of the 
Plano de Revitalização das Ferrovias, 
and the ongoing 
discussions within a working group, comprising representatives of the Ministry of 
Transport, the 
Agência Nacional de Transportes Terrestres-ANTT 
and railway 
concessionaires, to implement such plan. 
3. 
A
strategy for the reform of the Borrower’s customs system was approved by the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, as set out in the letter delivered to the Bank on January 
2, 2004, aiming at shifting the customs’ mission from revenue collection to trade 
facilitation and border protection, through revision of human resources policy, increased 
focus on accountability and transparency, and simplification and expansion of customs 
clearance systems and procedures. 
4. 
The Borrower’s transport administration was restructured pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Law No. 10,233, of June 5, 2001, complemented by the Borrower’s Decrees 
Nos. 4,721, of June 5, 2003, which approved the reorganization of the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Transport, and 4,749, of June 17, 2003, which approved the organization of 
Departamento Nacional de Infra-Estrutura de Transportes - DNIT
.
5. 
About nine percent of non-trunk roads under the Borrower’s jurisdiction were 
transferred to 15 states of the Borrower, pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Medida Provisória
 
No. 82, of December 7, 2002, and the corresponding agreements (
Termos de 
Transferência
)
entered into between the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport and such 
states. 
6. 
The land and water transport regulatory agencies (
Agência Nacional de 
Transportes Terrestres-ANTT
 and 
Agência
 
Nacional de Transportes Aquaviários-
ANTAQ
)
were established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 10,233, of June 5, 2001, 
and the Borrower’s Decrees Nos. 4,130 and 4,122, both dated February 13, 2002, and 
have been operating in a satisfactory manner. 
7. 
Bill of Law No. 2,546/2003, which establishes general rules for bidding and 
contracting procedures for public-private partnership in the public administration, at the 
Page  14
-
13
-
federal, state, Federal District and municipal levels, was submitted on November 10, 
2003, by the Borrower’s Executive Branch to the Borrower’s Congress. 
8. 
A draft proposal to reform the Borrower’ antitrust legislation (Law No. 8,884/94) 
was prepared, in April 2003, by a working group composed by representatives of the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance (
Secretaria de Assuntos Econômicos
)
and Ministry of 
Justice (
Secretaria de Direito Econômico and Conselho Administrativo de Defesa 
Econômica
). 
9. 
A simplification of the procedures for registration of enterprises has been 
adopted in certain states of the Borrower, known as “
FÁCIL
”, which consists essentially 
of a physical unification of some of the federal, state and municipal agencies participating 
in the registration procedure. 
10. 
The Borrower’s Congress promulgated the Constitutional Amendment No. 42, on 
December 19, 2003, which, 
inter alia
,
authorizes the establishment of a unified tax 
collection system, at the federal, state, Federal District and municipal levels, for micro 
and small enterprises.
 
11. 
Export norms have been simplified pursuant to 
Portaria 
No. 12, of September 3, 
2003, of the Secretary of Foreign Trade of the Borrower’s Ministry of Development, 
Industry and Foreign Trade. 
12. 
(a) 
Bill of Law No. 4376-E, of 1993, providing for a new bankruptcy law, 
was approved by the House of Representatives (
Câmara de Deputados
)
of
the 
Borrower’s Congress on October 15, 2003. 
(b) 
Bill of Law No. 72/03 (
Emenda Aglutinativa Substitutiva Global ao 
Projeto de Lei Complementar 
No. 72/03), which amends certain provisions of the 
Borrower’s Law No. 5172, of October 25, 1966 (the National Tax Code), applicable to 
enterprise bankruptcy and restructuring proceedings, was approved by the House of 
Representatives (
Câmara de Deputados
)
of
the Borrow
er’s Congress on October 15, 
2003. 
13. 
Bill of Law No. 344/2002, which extends application of antitrust provisions to 
the banking industry, submitted by the Borrower’s Executive Branch to the Borrower’s 
Congress on November 11, 2002, was approved by the Financial and Tax Commission of 
the House of Representatives (
Câmara de Deputados
)
of the Borrower’s Congress on 
October 22, 2003. 
Page  15
-
14
-
14. 
The Borrower’s Congress promulgated the Constitutional Amendment No. 40, of 
May 29, 2003, which amended Article 192 of the Borrower’s Constitution dealing with 
the financial system, to enable the development of appropriate and specialized legislation 
for different segments or themes in the financial system, instead of requiring a single 
overarching law for the entire system. 
15. 
The Borrower has completed the installation of the new large value payments 
system which is now functioning satisfactorily and processing large volumes of 
payments, as documented in the Central Bank’s
 Relatório de Estabilidade Financeira
 
–
May 2003 and November 2003, and in the details of volumes of transactions in the 
Central Bank’s 
Estatísticas do Sistema Brasileiro de Pagamentos
.
16. 
The Borrower has issued regulations to: (a) clarify allocation and eligibility 
criteria for assets of companies in the insurance sector pursuant to Resolution of the 
National Council of Private Insurance No. 98, of September 30, 2002, and Resolution of 
the National Monetary Council No. 3,034, of October 29, 2002; (b) improve registration 
and custody arrangements for insurance companies pursuant to Circular of the 
Superintendence of Private Insurance No. 220, of December 13, 2002; and (c) define 
accounting norms and auditing requirements for insurance companies pursuant to 
Resolution of the National Council of Private Insurance No. 86, of August 19, 2002. 
17. 
The Borrower has enabled the expanded access to financial services at banks, 
through: (a) the establishment of simplified accounts for individuals, which offer a basic 
package of bank services and are free of charge up to certain transaction limits, as 
provided in Resolutions of the National Monetary Council Nos. 3,104, of June 25, 2003, 
and 3,113 of July 31, 2003; (b) simplified conditions for opening a bank account, without 
the need for proof of income, as provided in Resolutions of the National Monetary 
Council Nos. 3,104, of June 25, 2003, and 3,113, of July 31, 2003; (c) an expansion in 
the scope of services offered by correspondent banks including the opening of accounts 
and credit facilities, as provided in Resolution of the National Monetary Council No. 
3,110, of July 31, 2003; and (d) 
payroll loans, as provided in the Borrower’s 
Medida 
Provisória 
No.130, of September 17, 2003. 
18. 
Bill of Law No. 7282/2002, which provides for incentives to technological and 
scientific research and to innovation in public research institutions, and establishes 
management mechanisms applicable to such institutions, was submitted to the 
Borrower’s Congress on November 5, 2002. 
19. 
(a) 
The Borrower issued Decree No. 4,195, of April 11 2002, to implement 
the provisions of: (i) the Borrower’s Law No. 10,168, of December 29, 2000, which 
promotes the linkages between the public universities and research centers and the private 
sector (through 
Fundo Verde-Amarelo
); and (ii) the Borrower’s Law No. 10,332, of 
Page  16
-
15
-
December 19, 2001, which creates instruments to support private sector research and 
development activities. 
(b) 
Criteria were established, pursuant to 
Portarias
 Nos. 595 e 597, of the 
Borrower’s Minister of Science and Technology, both dated September 25, 2002, for the 
use of public funds in the equalization of interest rates in loans for private sector research 
and development activities made by Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos (FINEP), and for 
the participation in venture capital funds and other risk-sharing instruments to support 
private sector research and development activities. 
20. 
(a) 
The Kyoto Protocol on the United Nations Framework Convention for 
Climate Change was ratified by the Borrower on August 23, 2002, after the Borrower’s 
Congress approval of such Protocol pursuant to 
Decreto Legislativo 
No. 144, of June 20, 
2002. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower’s Inter-ministerial Commission on Global Climate Change 
has become operational pursuant to 
Portaria 
MCT No. 863, of November 27, 2003, of 
the Borrower’s Minister of Science and Technology.
 
(c) 
The Borrower’s Inter-ministerial Commission on Global Climate Change 
issued, through Resolution No. 1, of September 11, 2003, the procedures for approval of 
projects under the clean development mechanism. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Payment Date
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
 
Beginning April 15, 2009 
 
 
through October 15, 2011 
6.25% 
 
On April 15, 2012  
 
and October 15, 2012  
 
0.00% 
 
Beginning April 15, 2013 
 
through October 15, 2017 
6.25% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
Page  18
-
17
-
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
 
