Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20204-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$210 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
YANGTZE DIKE STRENGTHENING PROJECT
May 31, 2000
Rural Development & Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January, 2000)
Currency Unit = Renminbi (RMB) or Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00 = US$ 0.12
US$ 1.00 = Y 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
bcm        billion cubic meters                                     mu        0.667 hectare (ha) or 0.164 acres
mcm        million cubic meters
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy                              MOF       Ministry of Finance
CC         Construction Contractor                                  MWR    Ministry of Water Resources
C/EMO      Overall Environmental Coordinator                        NCB       National Competitive Bidding
CIDA       Canadian International Development Agency                NPV       Net Present Value
COL        Collaboration                                            O & M    Operation & Maintenance
CON        Consultation                                             PAP       Project Affected People
CPCO       Central Project Coordination Office                      PFB       Provincial Financial Bureau
CWRC       Changjiang Water Resources Commission                    PIP       Project Implementation Plan
CWRCDI  Changjiang Water Resources Commission Design Institute      PLG       Project Leading Group
ECI        Environmental Construction Inspector                     PMO       Project Management Office
EIA        Environmental Impact Assessment                          POE       Panel of Experts
EMO        Environmental Management Office                          PPLG      Provincial Project Leading Group
EMP        Environmental Management Plan                            PPMO    Provincial Project Management
Office
EPM        Environmental Protection Measures                        PRC       People's Republic of China
ERR        Econornic Rate of Return                                 RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
FMS        Financial Management System                              RC        Reinforced Concrete
FY         Fiscal Year                                              RO        Resettlement Office
GIWP       General Institute Water Resources                        SDPC    State Development & Planning
Planning and Design                                                Comnmrission
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction & Development      TGP       Three Gorges Project
ICB        International Competitive Bidding                        VEO       Village Environmental Office
ICR        Implementation Completion Report                         WB        World Bank
IDA        International Development Association                    WBD       World Bank Division
IS         Information Sharing                                      WCB       Water Conservancy Bureau
LPLG       Local Project Leading Group                              WCBHB  Water Conservancy Bureau Hubei
LPMO       Local Project Management Office                          WR        Water Resources
Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din-Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director:      Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Director:     Geoffrey Fox, EASRD
Task Team Leader:        Daniel Gunaratnam, EACCF



CHINA
YANGTZE DIKE STRENGTHENING PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       10
3. Benefits and target population                                                      11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         16
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                            176
2. Financial                                                                           17
3. Technical                                                                           19
4. Institutional                                                                       22
5. Environment                                                                         23
6. Social                                                                              25
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  28
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      29
2. Critical risks                                                                      29
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      30



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             30
2. Other                                                                               30
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           33
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          34
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           35
Annex 2: Project Description                                                              38
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          50
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                    55
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                72
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        74
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      88
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    89
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   91
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             96
Annex 11: Environmental Impact Assessment                                                 98
Annex 12: Resettlement Action Plan                                                       118
Annex 13: Financial Management                                                           139
MAP(S)
IBRD 30696
IBRD 30697



CHINA
Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EACCF
Date: May31, 2000                                  Team Leader: Daniel J. Gunaratnam
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang              Sector Manager/Director: Geoffrey B. Fox
Project ID: P064730                                Sector(s): Al - Irrigation & Drainage
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Water
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ Loan          C Credit        El Grant        Cl Guarantee     L Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 210
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                                Years to maturity: 20
Commitrnent fee: 0.75%
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Fi.,--'   ---n 'Surc '&~at 'or~i~ --    ..
GOVERNMENT                                                     328.11           7.40         335.51
IBRD                                                             0.00         210.00         210.00
Total:                                                        328.11          217.40         545.51
Borrower: PRC
Responsible agency: MWR/CHANGJIANG WR COMMISSION, HUBEI AND HRUNAN PROVINCES
Provincial Finance Bureau, Hubei Province
Address: No 8 Zhongbei Road,Wuchang, Wuhan, 430071, Hubei Province, PRC
Contact Person: Vice Governor
Tel: 86-27-87824427                 Fax: 86-27-87849682                 Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Finance Bureau, Hunan Province
Address: No 1 West Cheng'nan Road, Changsha City, 410015, Hunan Province, PRC
Contact Person: Vice Governor
Tel: 86-731-5165180               Fax: 86-731-5165184                  Email:
Ministry of Water Resources
Address: No 2 Baiguanglu Ertiao, Xuanwu District, Beijing, 100053, PRC
Contact Person: Vice Minister    Tel. 86-10-63202821   Fax: 86-10-63548037
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):
20( 0i                   2003        20
Annual    45.0          65.0         52.0        48.0
Cumulative    45.0         110.0        162.0       210.0
Project implementation period: 4.0 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/01/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OCS PAD Fo., Rov Maro, 2D)



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The main Project development objective is to enhance the protection of the river bank against erosion and to
improve critical sections of existing main dikes along the banks of the mid-Yangtze River in Hunan and
Hubei Provinces, thus protecting the properties and lives behind the dikes against floods. The Project will
also support institutional reforms aimed at enhancing the existing dike operation and maintenance
organizations, both organizationally and technically. The objective will be achieved by: (i) strengthening
the river bank and existing flood protection dikes along the Yangtze River to lower the risk of dike breaches
that could lead to catastrophic damage; (ii) rehabilitating the flood gates and cross dike structures along
the dikes to discharge flows from tributaries and curtail flood flows behind the dikes; (iii) providing flood
control facilities for dike operation and maintenance organizations; (iv) expanding dike monitoring systems
and developing an emergency preparedness system to reduce flood damage and loss of lives; (v) developing
autonomous institutions at provincial and municipal levels based on the existing organizations for O&M of
the dikes; and (vi) enhancing self-financing through flood levy collection from the beneficiaries for
operation and maintenance of dikes.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The Project will be monitored through a set of indicators that takes into account the key elements of a
sustainable development strategy for flood control: (i) reduction in flood damage through structural and non
structural measures; and (ii) establishment of self financing institutional systems to operate and maintain
flood control facilities. Specifically, Project staff will monitor flood damage reduction, enforcement of
policies on introducing flood protection fees and setting up institutional systems for flood management. Key
performance indicators will be: (i) setting up dike inspection programs; (ii) processing and evaluation of
inspection results; (iii) formulation of annual maintenance programs and the funding thereof; (iv) the
projected and actual cost of annual maintenance programs; and (v) damage occurring from floods. Project
performance will be assessed for each dike section by monitoring key indicators as listed in the PIP (see
also Annex 1). The indicators will be compared with: (i) benchmark parameters on maintenance costs and
flood damage prior to Project implementation; and (ii) projections made for future maintenance operations.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R 98-107         Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/28/98
CAS document #: 16321-CHIA, February 25, 1997. Date of latest CAS discussion. March 18, 1997.
CAS Progress Report #: R98-107 of May 6, 1998 discussed May 28, 1998.
The Project will support Government's strategies endorsed in the CAS to: (i) promote agricultural
development and the rural economy by incorporating major water storage, transfer, irrigation drainage and
flood control programs into future projects, that include institutional reform and user participation as
integral components; (ii) improve cost recovery; (iii) focus on the reconstruction of essential infrastructure
and reduce infrastructure bottlenecks; (iv) improve rural employment and incomes; and (v) alleviate
poverty.
-2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
China's rivers and floodplains have been the focus of human settlement since the dawn of civilization. The
rivers were the natural transportation routes and the floodplains offered vast tracts of fertile land. Today,
the floodplains provide a home to the bulk of the China's population, most of its industry, and the vast
tracts of farmland that feed a population of 1.2 billion people. Unfortunately, this vastly productive area is
vulnerable to flooding. The 1998 floods in the Northeast and along the Yangtze River caused the
government to refocus on the flood mitigation measures especially along the Yangtze River. The 1998 flood
on the Yangtze coincided with torrential rain over the middle and lower reaches and affected principally the
provinces of Hubei, Hunan and Jiangxi. The flood affected some 21 million people in the three provinces
and displaced permanently 4.0 million people. In addition, a total of 3.3 million houses, factories and
commercial centers were affected, of which 1.3 million were destroyed. The damage was estimated at
Yuan 158 billion (close to US$20 billion). After these floods many weaknesses (piping through the dike
foundation, leakage through the dikes, bank erosion, nearly overtopping) were discovered along the dikes
and the river banks that need to be addressed to ensure that main dikes will not breach in the future. The
1954 flood on the Yangtze, one of the worst in history, caused widespread damage and loss of lives (some
30,000 people) that would have been much worse without the newly completed dikes. After this flood a
masterplan for flood control was drawn up in which improvements of dikes and detention basins were the
main consideration. The Yangtze River has caused other historic floods, such as the 1931 event where 3.3
million ha were flooded and 140,000 people died. The 1935 flood in the Han and Lishui tributaries led to
losses of a similar magnitude. Flood damage overall in China in the 1990s has been exceptionally high. On
average it has been US$15 billion per year with a low in 1990 of US$5 billion and a high of US$36 billion
in 1998. Dikes to protect land from the annual floods date back centuries and in some places more than
2,000 years. Since the creation of the People's Republic of China, the incomplete and poorly maintained
dikes have been strengthened and extended. At the same time, there has been rapid growth in the value of
assets protected by the dikes and this demands much higher levels of protection against floods. In the past,
a breach of a dike would destroy low-value field crops and inundate houses and public buildings. But now,
properties at risk include modem factories, processing plants, and high-value commercial real estate. In
addition, potential crop losses range from $1,500 per ha for field crops to several times that figure for
vegetable gardens and orchards.
The Government's strategy for addressing the flood problem has evolved over the years. Its main
elements are described below:
*   Construction of dikes and protection of riverbanks against erosion. Over 200,000 kilometers (km)
of new and rehabilitated dikes have been completed in China, protecting some 32 million ha of
cultivated land (33 percent of the total), and about 316 million people, although the protection
standards are not ideal. Of the dikes built, 56,000 km are along major rivers protecting some 21
million ha of cultivated land and about 216 million people in agricultural areas, cities and small towns,
and industrial centers. Construction of a dike requires that it is high enough to protect against an
extreme flood. The difference in height between a dike designed for a 50-year flood and a 1,000 year
recurrence flood is relatively small on most rivers and the higher level is justified by the potential losses
if the dike is overtopped. Dikes are normally found on the natural riverbank some distance from the
river. A common problem is seepage through the foundation material. This is known as "piping", and it
can lead to a loss of dike foundation material and, then the collapse of the riverbank and dikes. This
happened at the site of the only breach of the Yangtze dikes in the 1998'flood. This problem can
usually be treated by adding material to the inside (land side) face of the dike at places where seepage
appears. River bank erosion can cause bank collapse and threaten the dikes. On the Yangtze, rock
aprons are placed to protect the river bank. On the Yellow River, rock spurs are built to deflect the
flow from vulnerable river bank sections.
- 3 -



*   Urban flood protection. Dikes also need to be constructed around cities to protect them from floods.
There are presently 16,000 km of dikes around cities. About 530 out of 660 cities in the country need
additional protection of key urban and industrial sites from floods. Most of the cities that are already
protected need to be protected to higher levels. It is internationally recognized that, as a minimum, key
cities need to be protected from floods of a 100-year recurrence period. However, 80 percent of the
cities in China are protected from floods of a 50-year recurrence period and less and 65 percent are of
a 20-year recurrence period or less. Almost 65 percent of the US$130 billion of flood damage that
occurred during 1990-98 was in city and township areas that had low levels of flood protection or were
unprotected. In 1996, the Government embarked on a major program of upgrading and investing in new
urban flood protection measures.
*   Creation of flood detention areas for temporary storage of flood waters. Detention areas can be
natural lakes or low-lying areas designated for temporary flood storage. The Dongting Lake on the
Yangtze serves as a natural detention area but its capacity has declined over the years because of
siltation and land reclamation. For most rivers, the artificial detention areas contain high-value
farmland and other valuable assets. The use of a detention basin is, therefore, a last resort to prevent
much more severe losses that would be incurred by flooding the basin. About 98 localities have been
designated as flood diversion areas, providing off-stream flood storage for the major rivers, particularly
in the Yangtze, Huai, Hai and Yellow river basins. These areas have a total capacity of 97 billion cubic
meters (bcm) and are capable of raising flood protection standards, typically from floods of a 20-year
recurrence period to 50 or 60-year. However, at present there are 16 million people living in these
detention basins, who are cultivating 2 million ha of farmland. The Government has embarked on a
major program to safeguard the people living in these basins and to resettle some of them.
*   Dredging of river channels and removal of polder development in the channel areas. The natural
river channels often have inadequate conveyance capacity. Part of the reduction in capacity is due to
siltation and part due to the building of polders and structures within the river channel. Dredging to
enlarge channels can lead to significant increases in capacity and lower flood levels. This has been
particularly successful in the lower reaches of the Huai River. In addition to desilting, the Government
is removing the polders within the river channels and natural detention areas, such as Dongting Lake.
In some countries this is called giving "space to the rivers".
*   Construction of dams on the rivers to regulate downstream flows. Over 84,000 reservoirs, with a
total storage capacity of 450 bcm, have been built in China, most having multipurpose functions
including flood protection. Some 374 large reservoirs with a total capacity of 325 bcm, and 2,562
medium-size reservoirs with a capacity of 70 bcm have been built in the seven major river basins to
regulate and mitigate flood flows. The function of dams on the main rivers and tributaries is to
intercept floodwaters and thereby reduce peak flows and flood volumes. Although there are many dams
on the tributaries and main stem of rivers and there is significant flood storage that could be used,
about one third of the dams are considered unsafe. The dams that were built between 1949 and 1957
were generally of reasonable quality but the spillway and outlet capacity were grossly undersized due
to lack of hydrological information. Between 1957 and 1975, the quality of dams was poor due to
inadequate designs and construction methods. Dams built after 1975 are generally of good quality. The
Government has proposed a Yuan 330 billion program to upgrade and rehabilitate unsafe dams.
CIDA has provided a Can$8.0 million program to assist in developing a pilot rehabilitation program
for ten (10) major dams and to set up institutional arrangements for large-scale dam rehabilitation
programs.
*   Improved drainage systems behind the dikes to mitigate flooding caused by direct rainfall. Heavy
rain behind the dikes can cause flooding if high river levels impede drainage. Drainage systems must be
designed to move the water out as quickly as possible after the river levels recede. Pumps are needed to
drain the land when river levels are high, but it is seldom economically justified to design for more than
a 10-year storm.
-4 -



*   Soil and water conservation in the drainage basins of the rivers. The flood problem can be
aggravated by sediment accumulation in riverbeds and in the lakes connected to the rivers. In the
Yellow River, the riverbed in the lower reach is rising at a rate of nearly 1 meter every 10 years.
Measures to curb the sediment runoff that causes this problem in the Yellow River include the
construction of sediment check dans, afforestation, and terracing of severely sloped lands. This has led
to a marked decline in sediment flow in some large tributaries of the Yellow River. An IDA-financed
project in the Loess Plateau, in the Yellow River Basin, has shown that soil and water conservation
measures can be made compatible with profitable forestry and crop production, and result in a marked
improvement in farm incomes. Sediment buildup is also present in the main rivers in the Hai and the
Huai river basins. On the Yangtze, sediment buildup has reduced the capacity of Dongting Lake to
function as a natural flood control reservoir. Since the 1998 flood, the Government has ordered a
reduction in logging and it has plans to speed up soil and water conservation programs in the tributary
basins of the Yangtze and other major rivers.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The main sector issues in flood control in the Yangtze River Basin are the following:
* The existing flood control standards of the Yangtze River are of a very low level. This is not in line
with the social and economic status of the region. The Yangtze River Basin is a region with a relatively
well developed economy, but the flood protection is for less than a 40-year recurrence period. The
Jingjiang stretch is the main focus of flood protection, but can only safely pass a peak flow of 80,000
cubic meters per second (m'/s) under the condition of using the Jingjiang detention basins. This is
approximately equivalent to a 40-year frequency. The flood control standard without using the
Jingjiang detention is only a 10-year return period. The flood control standard for the middle reaches of
the Yangtze, which the Project's focus is on, is generally only a 10- to 20-year return period and the
flood control standards in the middle and lower reaches of the major Yangtze tributaries in Sichuan
Province only reach a 5- to 10-year return period.
*   The flood control standards of some major cities along the river are not adequate. Some of the cities
have no flood protection measures. A large number of cities along the river have suffered economic
losses of various extent due to flooding.
*  Flood detention basins are heavily populated and poorly protected. Detention basin facilities could be
improved to protect people in the event that these basins need to be used. There is no flood-proofng of
buildings in the detention basins and there is a lack of main roads to evacuate people when needed. The
safety of people in the basins cannot be guaranteed when the flood detention areas need to be used.
Consequently many detention basins are hardly usable during serious flooding. For example, one of the
difficulties of using the Jingjiang detention basin during the 1998 Yangtze flood was that the safety of
people living in the basin could not be assured. Finally when it was ascertained that the basins had to
be used and 300,000 people had to be moved, it was estimated that this would cost Yuan 2.4 billion.
* Some existing flood control levees have been poorly designed, constructed and maintained and dikes
are unsafe. Some levees were constructed on thick permeable foundation layers. Long-duration high
water levels cause leakage and piping, which then result in the failure of the foundations of the levees.
For example, breaches, piping and slope slides in many dikes occurred during the 1998 flood.
Yangtze Basin Flood Control Master Plan. After the 1954 flood, a serious attempt was made to
masterplan the basin for flood control. This included the establishment of 16 detention basins for flood
control purposes. In the 1970s and 1980s, the master plan was updated several times. However, the
complete basin master plan was approved only in 1990 after the TGP was approved for construction. This
"new" 1990 master plan calls for the rehabilitation of the dikes to provide protection against floods with a
- 5 -



20-year recurrence period. Prior to TGP construction the dikes were already designed for the protection of
floods with a 20-year recurrence period. Together with the detention basins the dikes would give a
protection for the 100-year recurrence period. To provide protection for the 100-year recurrence period
flood at least 15 bcm is needed to be stored in the detention basins. After TGP is constructed this facility
together with the improved dikes will be able to protect against 100-year recurrence period flood. The
detention basins will no longer be used for floods of a 100-year recurrence period after the TGP becomes
operational. Since there are 6.6 million people living in the detention basins, it is desirable not to use them
for flood water storage unless absolutely needed. However, floods in excess of 100-year recurrence and up
to 1000-year recurrence, the dikes, TGP and the detention basins will all need to be used to contain the
floods. The main masterplan features are indicated in Table 1 below. The masterplan details were verified
for the 1998 flood and no major changes to the plan were made after evaluation of the verification findings.
It is unnecessary to get involved in any further master plan studies, because the 1990 masterplan is
comprehensive and there is a good understanding of what needs to be put in place under the Yangtze Basin
Flood Control Plan.
Table 1: Flood Control Master Plan Before and After TGP
Flood                 Refore TGP                            Afte GTPis
Frequency               is Colted                               Completed
Dike         G   trg  X Detetion        Die       TGr:  storage ;   Detention
WkW_ ,',5!p : o 3 :  
lused   NA 0  ybasin use in         se in br   bainuse in *
ben f ater               of water   berm of water
stordorere                              stored
1/20          Fully used      NA           0        Fully used       0
1/50 (1998)    Fully used     NA          7.5       Fully used      7.5                -
1/100 (1954)   Fully used     NA          15.0      Fully used      15.0
1/1000 (1870)  Fully used     NA          50.0      Fully used      22.0         28.0
The masterplan studies determined the optimum detention basin and reservoir storage requirements. The
optimization reveals that there should be a provision of about 50 bcm of storage: 22 bcm from TGP and
28 bem from the detention basins. The use of detention basins will depend on the river section flow
capacity and actual flows that cannot be sustained. Generally, the constricted portion of the Jingjiang
section of the river is from where the Jingjiang detention basin will be used. For the river section flowing
passed the Dongting Lake the Honghu detention basin will be used. There are clear operating rules for the
use of the detention basins.
The Yangtze Basin Flood Control Master Plan calls for a number of actions to be taken, including the
following:
*   the dikes are the main works to provide protection against floods and have to be designed
to the flood levels of the 1954 storm;
*   the TGP will be the main flood control structure and will provide 22 bcm of flood storage,
with supplemental control from reservoirs upstream and on tributaries (15 reservoirs with
- 6 -



a total flood storage capacity of 19.1 bcm);
*   construction of detention basins (63.3 bcm storage) to store flood water in the event the
1870 flood levels occur;
*  river training, soil and water conservation measures in the upper Yangtze basin to reduce
soil erosion, especially in the tributaries and sediment in the lakes;
*   enhancing the capacity of lakes and floodways by removing flood-resistance polders and
return lake-side farmlands to lake areas for better flood regulation; and
* a combination of engineering and non-engineering measures such as flood-proofing of
low-lying areas, voluntary resettlement of people from flood-prone area.
All the above measures are being implemented to various degrees. Dikes form the first line of defense for
floods of low to medium peaks up to the 20-year recurrence period. Before TGP is completed, all other
floods larger than 20-year recurrence are to be mitigated by using the dikes and detention basins. After
TGP is completed, the floods larger than 20-year will be handled by TGP and the detention basin will be
used. The dikes are independent of whatever else is built in the river basin to control floods since they form
the first line of defense.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Project Area
Hunan Province.    In Hunan Province, the Yangtze river is 163 km long and forms the northern
border with Hubei Province. The 99.5 km section upstream of Chenglingji is the Jingjiang reach, and the
63.5 km section downstream of Chenglingji is the Yueyang reach. The main Yangtze dike in Hunan is
140.5 km long, of which 50 percent is close to the river and threatened by bank erosion. The dike protects
over 2,000 km of land, including 90,000 ha of intensively cultivated farmland, a population of 1.6 million,
the Beijing Guangzhou railway, and National Highway 107. A notable feature of the Yangtze in Hunan is
Dongting Lake. Three channels of the Yangtze break away from the main channel near the city of Zicheng.
About one third of the flow of the river in high flood enters Dongting Lake from these channels and then
returns to the river at Chenglingji. Four tributaries of the Yangtze flow into Dongting Lake: the Li Shui,
Yuan Jiang, Zi Shui and the Xiang Jiang. Sometimes, as in 1998, early floods in these four rivers fill the
Lake and this reduces the storage available when the Yangtze goes into flood. Over the years, the capacity
of Dongting Lake has been depleted by natural sediment deposition and by polders that have been created
for settlement and agriculture. During the 1998 flood, 110 polders out of a total of 248 were flooded.
Hubei Province.     In Hubei Province, the Yangtze river is 1,061 km long. This includes the 163 km
of the river shared with Hunan, and the 70 km shared with Jiangxi. The main Yangtze dikes in Hubei, with
a length of 1,557 km, protect the city of Wuhan and other large cities, 43 counties, a population of 30
million, 2 million ha of farrnland, and many large industries including the Wuhan Iron and Steel Company
and the Jianghan oilfield. There are numerous lakes in the lands bordering the river. Channels link the lakes
to the Yangtze, and these are controlled by gates and drainage pumping stations. These lakes serve to
absorb rainfall runoff that would otherwise flood farmland. Normally the water level in the lakes is lower
than high-flood levels in the Yangtze, but they would only be used to store floodwaters if a breach of the
main dike appeared imminent. The Honghu is designated as a flood detention basin, as also is the Jingjiang
area north of Dongting Lake.
-7 -



The Project consists of the following components:
Component 1: River Bank and Dike Foundation Seepage Protection (US$103.4 million)
River bank protection works, over a length of 132.7 km (82.4 km in Hubei and 50.3 km in Hunan), will be
undertaken by Changjiang Water Resources Commission (CWRC) with full support from the Central
Government. The proposed river bank protection measures under this component include the following:
*   Gabion rockfill, large pre-cast concrete blocks and dumped rip-rap protection for the
underwater portion of the bank, including dike toe and with a filter layer of geo-textile or
other filter material; and
*   0.1 to 0.3 m thick pre-cast concrete slabs or hand placed rip-rap protection for the
above-water portion of the bank;
*   Where piping is evident, treatment of the foundation material that underlies the dike by an
impermeable blanket or a grout curtain.
Component 2: Dike Strengtheningfor Hubei and Hunan Provinces (US$264.5 million)
(i)    Dike rehabilitation and seepage control of 558.8 km of Class I and RI dikes (442.8 km in Hubei
and 116.0 km in Hunan). The main measures of the dike strengthening component include the following:
* Raise the height of the dikes to provide an adequate margin (freeboard) above the design
flood level;
* Protect the face of the dike at vulnerable locations with dumped or hand-placed stone, or
concrete blocks (revetment) and plant trees on the berms for wave protection;
*   Treat the main body of the dike, where necessary, by a grout curtain (injection of clay
slurry) or by placing geo-synthetics
*  Repair/upgrade culverts and gates through the dike;
*   Slope protection with grass covers inside of the dikes; and
*  Upgrade and pave dike roads and install lighting.
(ii)    Cross-dike structures rehabilitation and replacement. Typical cross-dike structures include
culverts, sluices, pumping stations and traffic passes with flood control gates. On average, there are two
cross-dike structures per kilometer length. The outdated structures, most of which were built in the 1970's
and are of poor quality materials, require foundation treatment for seepage control. Also, snail traps, nets
and isolation ponds will be installed for containing the spread of schistosomiasis prevalent in the area. The
length of most structures will be extended to meet the cross-sectional profiles of the rehabilitated dikes.
Foundation treatment for the cross-dike structures includes concrete cutoff walls, jet grouting, and cement
mixed piles. In addition, a total of 70 cross structures will be rehabilitated and upgraded
Component 3: Dike Monitoring and River Modeling (US$22.1 million)
(i)    Dike Monitoring (US$2.0 million) Under the Project Hubei will setup a computerized system to
monitor the seepage through the dike and settlement/deformation of the dike. The system will consist of
placing piezometers at regular and critical locations inside and outside the dike to monitor possible flows
through the dike body and foundations. A real time data acquisition system will be established for all the
piezometers measurements, dike deformation and water levels along the dike. These measurements will
provide advanced warning for possible weaknesses in the dikes during high water levels so that advanced
protection measures can be taken to prevent dike breaches.
-8 -



(ii)   River Modeling (US$20.1 million)  In addition the Project will support CWRC in the
development of a physical model of the middle Yangtze River reach covering the middle part of the lower
reach. The model will predict the sediment and water flows from Yicheng to Hukou. It will also predict the
movement of the river channel in time and therefore give CWRC advance waming for river bank protection
and provide information on Lake Dongtinghu sedimentation and its capacity to retain flood storage volume.
It will also provide information for flood mitigation strategies into the future.
Component 4: Equipmentfor Dike Maintenance (US$6.1 million)
At present, dike maintenance, which is mainly carried out during the dry season from September to May,
relies mainly on a large labor force with basic handtools and outdated equipment. This method is
inefficient and the work carried out is of poor quality. This component will provide modem equipment for
dike maintenance, which will increase the organizational capacity to carry out regular maintenance. The
equipment will include wheel loaders, bulldozers, excavators, dump trucks, light vehicles and boats. Office
equipment, such as computers, fax machines and printers, to improve further the efficiency of the
maintenance organizations will also be provided.
Component 5: Resettlement (US$96.9 million)
Under the Project the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), which has been prepared in accordance with OD
4.30, will be implemented. This includes the resettlement of 47,992 (10,958 families) people. The Project
will affect 33,750 mu or 2,250 ha of land of which 21,906 mu or 1,460 ha is cultivated, 1.52 million m of
housing, and 0.24 million m2 of industrial and commercial units. Independent resettlement supervision
teams will be will be employed by the provincial PMOs to supervise the implementation of the RAP. The
Resettlement Program consists of various housing and economic restoration measures, which have been
developed to: (a) minimize disturbance to resettlers by providing local resettlement options, family
production/income restoration alternatives and necessary support in the period of transition; (b) be
acceptable to both resettlers and host populations; and (c) maintain or improve income levels and standards
of living of people in the affected areas. The mechanisms for restoration of enterprises, infrastructure and
utilities affected by the Project will be fully covered (see Annex 12).
Component 6: Environmental Management (US$1.9 million)
An Environment Impact Assessment of the Project (EILA) has been prepared, which includes an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) to be implemented under the Project. The EMP details
environmental protection measures. including mitigation, offsetting and enhancement measures. The
Project will establish an international Panel of Environmental Experts to provide guidance and monitor
implementation of the EMP. An Environmental Management Office (EMO) will be established in each
province, which will carry out environmental monitoring and training programs.
Component 7: Engineering and Project Management (US$19.2 million)
The engineering and Project management component provides for the preparation of final designs and
bidding documentation of the Project works and construction supervision thereof. In addition to the normal
engineering and Project management arrangements the component also provides for a design and
construction standards review panel and consultants to assist the provinces with supervising the
construction of works, with particular focus on quality control.
Component 8: Institutional Development and Flood Prevention and Disaster Mitigation (US$5.6
million)
(i)   Institutional Development   The Project will provide for technical assistance, training
programs and study tours in China and other countries for MWR/CWRC, Hubei and Hunan Provinces.
-9-



These activities will help the Project address institutional constraints in such critical areas as: (i) dike
maintenance; (ii) review of standards for flood control and design of dikes; (iii) resolving complex design
and construction issues; (iv) adoption of modem construction technologies; and (v) ensure financial and
physical sustainability of the infrastructure facilities.
(ii)    Flood Prevention and Disaster Mitigation Flood prevention and disaster mitigation
technical assistance will be located in MWR's Technical Research Center. The assistance will be provided
for: (a) review and recommendation of changes of flood control standards, regulations and emergency
response and disaster relief procedures; (b) training and design in geo-technical investigation of dikes for
Provincial Design Institutes; (c) training of flood fighting staff; and (d) the setting up of a technical help
desk for solving specific problems in flood control in the provinces and river basin.
River Bank Protection - CWRC       Engineering        93.56        17.2      0.00       0.0
Foundation Seepage Control - CWRC    Engineering        9.82        1.8      0.00       0.0
Dike Rehabilitation - Hubei        Engineering       215.77       39.6    158.44       75.4
Dike Rehabilitation - Hunan        Engineering        48.75        8.9      27.60      13.1
Dike Monitoring/River Modeling     Irrigation &       22.07        4.0      11.78       5.6
Drainage
Equipment for Dike Maintenance     Engineering          6.08        1.1      5.15       2.5
Resettlement                       Resettlement       96.92        17.8      0.00       0.0
Environmental Management           Environment          1.87       0.3       0.61       0.3
Adjustment
Engineering and Project Management   Engineering       19.17       3.5       0.00       0.0
Institutional Development          Institutional        5.63        1.0      4.32       2.1
Development
0.0                 0.0
0.0                 0.0
Total Project Costs                  519.64       95.3    207.90       99.0
Interest during construction                23.77        4.4       0.00       0.0
Front-end fee                    2.10        0.4       2.10       1.0
Total Financing Required                   545.51      100.0    210.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Project supports China's efforts to: (a) ensure a more rational and standardized approach for the
improvement of the flood control infrastructure facilities along the Yangtze river; (b) introduce modem
technology for the slope protection (revetments) of river banks and dikes; (c) improve the physical and
financial sustainability of flood protection works, through introducing improved safety assessments and
maintenance programs and innovative mechanisms for funding of these programs; (d) ensure that there is
good coordination for Project implementation between Changjiang Water Resources Commission and the
two provinces; and (e) protect and improve the quality of the environment and establish a transparent
approach to planning and implementing the resettlement and environmental management plans.
- 10-



3. Benefits and target population:
The Yangtze river and its floodplains provide a home to over 100 million people representing about 9
percent of China's population, its industries, and vast tracts of farmland. The region is one of the most
economically developed in China with gross output value of industry and agriculture of about Yuan 500
billion or approximately 16 percent of the nation's total output. Unfortunately, this vastly productive area
is also vulnerable to flooding. The dikes along the Yangtze in the two provinces participating in the
Project provide protection to about 75 million people. Dikes to protect land from the annual ravages of
floods date back centuries and in some places more than 2000 years. The Yangtze floodplain was heavily
settled between the 9th and 13th centuries when an agricultural shift from dry land fanning in the north to
paddy production in the south, accompanied by a shift in the distribution of population, occurred. Over
these four centuries, living standards rose 30% whilst the population doubled. Since the creation of the
People's Republic 50 years ago, the dikes have been strengthened and extended to some extent, but they
remain incomplete and poorly maintained. Due to inadequate protection from dikes, the people living in the
floodplains continue to be affected during the flood season. The primary aim of the Project is to reduce
flood losses in the future. Thus, the primary category of benefits to be evaluated is the expected value of
the reduction of flood losses in future years. Losses in the past have been substantial: the 1954 flood
affected nearly 19 million people, of which more than 30,000 died, 4.3 million houses were destroyed and
more than 200,000 hectares of farm land were flooded. The 1998 flood involved, in some instances, an
even higher water level and resulted in losses valued at nearly US$4 billion in Hunan alone. Floods on the
Yangtze create crisis conditions at many places along the dikes that call for vast inputs of manual labor,
most of it unpaid. In the 1998 flood, over half a million people were employed for nearly two months to
construct temporary floodwalls of sandbags to contain bank erosion and to deal with dangerous seepage
through the foundations of the dikes. The costs of these activities were estimated at about US$400 million.
Evacuation of 0.3 million people from flood-prone areas such as the Jingjiang detention basin has a high
economic cost (forgone production), financial cost (loss of earnings) and social cost (disruption of family
life, interruption of education, etc.). Further benefits include the expected reduction in flood fighting costs;
at present, the costs of strengthening weak points in a dike during a flood and of emergency dike raising are
substantial. Strengthening and raising the dikes will reduce the frequency with which such actions are
needed. The effects upon navigation and tourism have also been assessed: both are estimated to be small
but positive, in particular in the case of navigation. Even a very conservative estimate of benefits indicates
a high economic rate of return for this Project of 40% or higher.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Central Government level
The Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project is a Central Government undertaking to be implemented by the
Chiangjiang Water Resources Commission (CWRC), Hubei and Hunan provinces. A Central Project
Steering Committee (CPSC), headed by a representative of the Ministry of Water Resources with
representatives from SDPC, MOF and the Project Provinces as members, have been set up in Beijing to
oversee Project implementation and provide policy guidance to the CWRC and the two provinces. A
Project Coordination Office (PCO) has been established by MWR, which will coordinate: (i) the planning
and implementation of the river bank protection works and selected foundation treatment works by CWRC
and the dike strengthening works by Hubei and Hunan; and (ii) the adoption of adequate quality control
assurance measures under the Project. The PCO will be headed by a senior official of MWR and assisted
by qualified staff in adequate numbers assigned from MWR, CWRC, and Hubei and Hunan provinces. A
Panel of Experts (POE) specialized in design and construction of major river dikes and embankments will
be retained by the PCO not later than October 15, 2000. The POE will convene periodically and as
required during Project preparation and implementation to review design and construction programs and
provide advice. The PCO will also retain a POE to review the implementation of the Environmental
- 11 -



Management and Resettlement Action Plans. Both panels will comprise of international and national
experts and the cost of both panels will be borne by the participating provinces. The main roles of the
CWRC will be to implement the river bank protection and critical dike foundation treatment works or
"underwater works" and to ensure on behalf of the Central Government that: (i) all standards and criteria
for design and construction of river dikes are applied as detailed in the Yangtze Basin Master Plan; and (ii)
adequate quality control assurance and control measures are put in place, to meet the technical
specifications for construction of works. To achieve this, a "construction site quality oversight group" will
be set up in each province as required by MWR regulations.
CWRC level
CWRC has in place adequate organizational arrangements for the irnplementation of the river bank
protection and selected dike foundation treatment works in close consultation with Hubei and Hunan.
CWRC has set up a River Bank Construction Bureau for the planning and implementation of the physical
model for the middle reach of the Yangtze river.
Provincial Government level
Project Leading Groups (PLG) have been established in the two provinces to provide policy guidance and
coordination between provincial agencies. Each province has set up a Provincial Project Management
Office (PPMO), which will be responsible for overall project planning, financial management, technical
affairs, preparation of annual work plans, procurement, coordination between the PMOs at local
Government levels and through them between the implementation agencies, and assuring counterpart
funding.
Local Government level
Local Project Leading Groups (LPLG) with similar structures and functions as the provincial PLGs have
been set up in each of the Cities, Municipalities and Counties participating in the Project. They will also set
up Local Project Management Offices (LPMO). Each local government PMO will be responsible for
Project planning, financial management, technical affairs, preparation of annual work plans, coordination
between Government organizations and the implementation agencies, and assuring counterpart funding.
Planning, design, implementation and construction supervision
The river bank protection works and selected dike foundation treatment works will be implemented by
CWRC without Bank financing. CWRC will also be responsible for the river modeling program. The
implementation of other Project works will be entrusted to owner organizations at local government levels,
such as Dike Management Offices or Water Conservancy Bureaus. The structure and staffing of the
Project implementation offices will be adjusted to match the Project scope and the technical complexity of
contracts to be implemented. Local governments will establish additional implementation units as needed.
CWRC's Design Institute (CWRCDI) has assisted the Provincial and Local Govermment Water
Conservancy Bureaus and Dike Management Offices since 1998 with Project formulation, the preparation
of feasibility studies and the planning  and design of Project works.  To ensure continuity the
implementation agencies will retain the same organizations to prepare final designs of the major Project
works including construction drawings, technical specifications and bill of quantities for the bid documents.
They will also be retained to carry out design changes during Project implementation. Technical specialists
will be contracted as required to assist with resolving complex design or construction issues. Local
government organizations will retain, through a competitive process, nationally recognized "Grade A"
organizations to act for the owners as the "Engineer" for the construction of works.
- 12 -



Monitoring and evaluation
A qualified organization recognized by the central government will be employed by the implementation
agencies to supervise the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) as detailed in the
EIA report. The PPMO on behalf of the implementation agencies will also employ a qualified independent
external agency to monitor and evaluate the implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) and the
EMP. The PPMO will carry out regular technical inspections in the Project areas and be responsible for
bi-annual reporting of physical and financial progress of Project implementation. The provincial report will
draw on information provided by the LPMOs and the implementation agencies. This will include
monitoring and evaluation of construction quality of Project works, Project costs, compliance with the
World Bank's procurement procedures and key performance indicators. Major issues will be summarized
in the progress reports. These reports are to be submitted to the Bank by October 15 of each year covering
the preceding March to August period, and by April 15 for the preceding September to February period. A
mid-term review will be undertaken by July 15, 2002. Prior to that, the PPMO will prepare a mid-term
report that will summarize the results of monitoring and evaluation, identify problems encountered during
implementation, revise Project costs, and discuss measures to complete the Project as scheduled. The
Borrower's Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Project will be prepared and furnished to the
Bank within six months of Project completion Quality oversight units in CWRC and the provinces will
establish joint teams to carry out site inspections to assess the effectiveness of the construction quality
assurance system. This will be carried out in accordance with central government regulations for key
national projects.
Key Performance Indicators
Key performance indicators will be: (i) introduction of systematic dike inspection programs; (ii) evaluation
of inspection results, in particular the number and extent of defects detected; (iii) formulation of annual
maintenance programs and the funding thereof; (iv) the cost of annual maintenance programs; and (v)
damage and problems caused by floods. Standardized inspection and reporting routines are therefore
essential to evaluating the performance of the Project and to programming the maintenance activities
necessary to ensure Project sustainability. Project performance will be assessed for each dike section by
monitoring key indicators as given in Annex 1. The indicators will be compared with: (i) benchmark
parameters on maintenance costs and flood damage prior to Project implementation; and (ii) projections
made for future maintenance operations.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The Project focuses on the rehabilitation and strengthening of Yangtze river embankrnents and dikes in two
provinces. There is no realistic alternative to strengthening the river banks and main dikes. Due to
inadequate protection by dikes, the people living in the floodplains continue to be affected by floods during
the rainy season. Most notable flood causing widespread damage and loss of life occurred in 1954. The
impact due to the flood would have been much worse without the then newly completed dikes. More
recently during the 1998 flood (1:50 year), only one breach occurred in the dike, but numerous weaknesses
were revealed requiring costly emergency measures. The flood, which affected the Hubei, Hunan and
Jiangxi provinces, killed 1,562 and affected about 21 million people, and permanently displaced 4.0 million
people. In addition, 3.3 million houses, factories and commercial centers were flooded of which 1.3 million
were destroyed. The total damage due to flooding combined with torrential rain over the middle and lower
reaches of the Yangtze was estirnated at Yuan 158 billion (about US$20 billion). As an immediate result
of the 1998 flood the 1990 flood master plan for the Yangtze River Basin was updated in the event of
- 13-



another extreme flood. Apart from dike strengthening the plan includes measures to lower the risk for
flooding of people living in the flood detention areas and in the vulnerable polders by moving them to
higher ground and providing refuge platforms. An alternative that is not applicable to most rivers in China
is to realign or eliminate the dikes in order to allow the rivers to flow unconfined. The argument is made
that the cost of confining the rivers far exceeds the benefits. However, this overlooks the fact that the dikes
are mainly justified by preventing annual floods (not just the extreme floods) to reach the farmlands, cities,
and industries of the floodplains. The option of allowing the rivers more freedom (giving them more space)
was foreclosed centuries ago when the floodplains were first settled.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Implementaton   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
- Strengthening the structural measures Taihu Basin Flood Control  S             S
and management of flood control in the (FY93, US$200 million)
Taihu Lake basin.
- Restoration of roads, water supply,   Yangtze Flood Emergency     S            S
schools, hospitals, clinics, and  Rehabilitation (FY99, US$80
irrigation systems ravaged by the 1998 million)
Yangtze floods, for 54 counties in
Hubei, Hunan and Jiangxi.
- Flood and sediment control for the    Xiaolangdi Multipurpose    HS            S
lower reach of Yellow River to reduce  (FY94, US$460 million)
damage resulted from extreme floods
and alleviate the sedimentation of river
channel.
- Resettlement of 200,000 people from  Xiaolangdi Resettlement      S             S
Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project, incl. (FY94, US$110 million)
livelihood & production development.
- Sediment control to reduce sediment  Loess Plateau Watershed      S            HS
inflow from the Loess Plateau region   Rehabilitation
into the Yellow River, which has the   (FY94, US$150 million)
highest silt content.
- Rehabilitation and construction of    Yangtze Basin Water         S            S
irrigation and drainage systems and a  Resources (FY95, US$210
flood control dam, plus setting up  million)
self-financing irrigation and drainage
districts and a river basin management
organization.
- 14-



- Flood and sediment control for the    Xiaolangdi Multipurpose II  HS           S
lower reach of Yellow River to reduce (FY97, US$430 million)
damage resulted from extreme floods
and alleviate the sedimentation of river
channel, and support for institutional
development.
Other development agencies
Asian Development Bank -  Dike   North East and Yellow River
strengthening and urban flood control  Flood Control (FY01, US$300 l
million) - under preparation
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Since 1982, the Bank has assisted China in more than 50 water resources related operations. The majority
of these projects have been implemented efficiently, and time and cost overruns have not been excessive
despite periods of sharp price increases. The key lessons learned from previous Bank supported water
resources projects include:
L   detailed organizational and staff arrangements should be fornulated and agreed before Project
implementation starts;
*   intemational consultants and technical panels can make substantial contributions to improving the
designs, economic impact assessment, and resettlement planning and design;
3   counterpart funding should be committed before implementation, based on an accurate and realistic
year-by-year Project financing plan, prepared and approved by the provincial planning commission
and finance bureau;
*  to avoid delays and cost overruns the bidding process for major civil works should start early in the
Project cycle, so that bid award will correspond with the date of loan effectiveness;
*   implementation support to the executing agency should include a competent construction supervisory
organization suitably reinforced with intemational consultants;
*   adequate cost recovery should be sought from the beneficiaries of flood protection measures to make
the Project sustainable;
*   projects should include institutional development support for the strengthening of the Project
implementation and management organizations, including transfer of know-how and technology from
abroad;
*   active participation of beneficiaries from the initial project formulation stages into the operation and
maintenance stages would increase effectiveness of Project implementation and performance;
*   baseline data of key performance indicators should be established for all components before or at
appraisal; and
*  the project launch workshop and/or initial Bank supervision missions should focus first on resolving
procurement and disbursement issues.
The above lessons leamt, together with the key success factors identified by the Bank such as strong
govermnent commitment and ownership, beneficiary participation, adoption of a realistic O&M plan,
introduction of water charges, financial autonomy of Project entity, have been reflected where appropriate
in the Project design.
- 1 5 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The two provinces have prepared feasibility and other reports in Chinese and English in an efficient and
timely manner and put in place adequate arrangements for Project preparation and implementation.
Generally, central government agencies and the provinces were cooperative and responsive in providing
data and information needed for efficient and timely processing of the Project. Central and provincial
governments are giving very high priority to this Project, especially after the occurrence of a major flood in
the Yangtze Basin in 1998. The State Development Planning Commission formally approved this Project
in May 1999. The Central Government has allocated a large budget for flood mitigation programs (which
includes this Project) to the upper and middle Yangtze reaches for next three years (1999-2001) covering
the following major activities:
*  Dike/embankment rehabilitation     Yuan  76.7 billion
*  Detention basin rehabilitation     Yuan  21.9 billion
*  Lake and floodway desilting        Yuan  4.2 billion
*  River training                     Yuan  3.6 billion
*   Soil and water conservation       Yuan  87.4 billion
Total                      Yuan 193.8 billion (about US$23 billion)
The Central Government has already invested Yuan 3-4 billion this year on Yangtze dike repairs to ensure
that they were safe for the 1999 flood season (July-October) and is committed to provide the necessary
funds to complete the entire Project in three years.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The experience in China is that Bank fnancing of large civil works leads to a more structured approach to
planning, design, procurement of goods and works and construction, than is customary in locally financed
projects. For example, design review procedures are established and procurement packages are generally
larger and attract wider competition. Bank involvement and the use of Bank procurement procedures and
documents have often resulted in cost savings of as much as 20 to 25 percent. The quality of works is
normally of higher standard, because of better construction supervision. Counterpart funds are generally
provided by the various levels of government as stipulated in the agreed Project financing plan.
Organizational arrangements for Project implementation are more transparent and driven by technical and
economic judgments rather than political. Bank involvement will help the development of autonomous
institutions at provincial and local government levels as well as promote self-financing of annual operation
and maintenance programs. Bank support tends also to promote knowledge management exchanges
between national and foreign experts. Bank involvement in the preparation of this Project has convinced
central and provincial agencies of the value to pay more attention to economical and financial analysis and
to pay closer attention to achieve financial sustainability of dike maintenance organizations and to the
resettlement and environmental aspects under the Project.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit   NPV=US$1440 million; ERR = 49.2 % (see Annex.4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
- 16 -



Province            NPV (US$ million)            B/C ratio                   ERR
Hubei                   1,128.0                    4.3                     53.1%
Hunan                    312.0                     2.3                     25.0%
Overall, the Project in the two Provinces was found to have Net Present Values (NPV) which are robustly
positive. The indicators of economic efficiency and the economic internal rate of return (ERR) for the
Project in each Province are good (see above). The economic benefits arise from: (i) avoidance of losses
due to a reduced risk of breaches in the main Yangtze dikes; (ii) avoidance of having to resort to the flood
detention areas except when extreme floods occur; (iii) lower cost for emergency operations during floods;
and (iv) reduced maintenance costs. In the past 40 years a number of high floods have occurred that could
have caused breaches at weak sections of the dikes. A discount rate of 12% and a planning horizon of 50
years were used in preparing the benefit-cost analyses.
The principal economic benefit from the Project's investments is a reduction in the expected value of future
flood losses. These losses were estimated per unit area, based upon detailed surveys of the losses during
past floods and estimates of land areas flooded by events of different return periods. Together, these two
sets of data enabled the construction of the loss-probability curves. The flood loss figures were checked in
part by reference to the levels of compensation set out in the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), a summary
of flood losses in China in the 1980s, and the losses as a proportion of the assets at risk found in other
countries that have good loss data. Because the Project involves dike strengthening as well as dike raising,
estimates of the probability of a breach as a function of the return period of the flood have been made. The
assessment takes into account the impact of the Three Gorges Project (TGP) when it comes on stream in
2007 as well as the use of detention basins. In Hubei, the Three Gorges Project is projected to have a
major effect upon the flood losses; while its impact on the flood losses in Hunan is less predictable. The
use of the detention basins reduces the probability of downstream breaches, but also involves: (i) a
substantial cost for evacuating the population inhabiting the detention basins; and (ii) flood damages to
assets within the detention basin. Up to eight sets of breach probabilities have been used in the analyses. A
further stream of benefits included is the potential reduction in flood fighting costs. At present, the costs of
strengthening weak points in a dike during a flood and of emergency dike raising are substantial.
Strengthening and raising the dikes will reduce the need and frequency of such actions. The effects upon
navigation and tourism were investigated; both are estimated to be small but positive in the case of
navigation.
Future Operation and Maintenance (O&M) costs have been taken into account in the analyses. Inadequate
maintenance of dike systems contribute to premature failures, which is the case with the current dike
systems in all three provinces. It is estimated that the future O&M cost for the improved dikes and
associated infrastructure, will be less than the cost of maintaining the present system of poorly constructed
dikes. In addition flood fighting cost, which may be considered part of the O&M costs, are likely to be
lower with well constructed and maintained dikes resulting from the Project. Therefore, there will be
economic benefits from reduced O&M costs.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ -582 million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Financial Management
Procedures for management of Bank funds will be improved in accordance with OP/BP 10.02. Because of
past Bank Group supported projects, the Finance Bureaus in both provinces (PFBs) are familiar with
- 17 -



financial management requirements of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Bank. World Bank funds
will be channeled through MOF as a grant since this is a Central Government Project. MOF has issued
instructions and guidelines for the introduction of adequate financial control of Bank financed projects,
which meet Bank requirements. The Project's Financial Management System (FMS) aspects (budgeting,
accounting, internal control, auditing and reporting), staffing and equipment requirements have been
analyzed. Plans, procedures, guidelines and reporting and staffing requirements for an improved FMS to be
adopted under the Project have been confirmed by all parties concerned. To facilitate and clarify
withdrawal and reimbursement procedures and ensure efficient financial control, PFBs have also issued
regulations and instructions providing: (i) details of supporting documentation required for withdrawal and
reimbursement applications from Bank loans; (ii) withdrawal and reimbursement procedures applicable to
PMOs; and (iii) formats of withdrawal applications and financial statements. Detailed guidelines for the
introduction of the improved FMS are provided in the Borroweres Project Implementation Plan (PIP). They
include plans for strengthening financial management capacities of the Provincial, City and District/County
Finance Bureaus, and of the Provincial and Local PMOs, including staff training. MOF issued
"Accounting Procedures for World Bank-Financed Projects" in January 2000 aimed at strengthening
accounting methods under Bank supported projects. The Bank participated in the preparation of this
document, which covers accounting principles, general ledger accounts and accounting statements, and in
development of accounting software for the use by PMOs. Project accounting will use double entry
bookkeeping on an accrual basis. The accounting statements applicable to the Project will include balance
sheet and statements on; (i) sources and uses of funds; (ii) Loan Agreement implementation; and (iii) the
Special Account (SA). Reporting formats are given in the PIP. Separate general ledgers, subsidiary
accounts, cash and bank deposit journals have already been established by the PMOs for accounting of
funds received and expenditures made. Each PMO will prepare its own accounting statements. The
PPMO will be responsible for consolidating the accounting statements provided by the LPMOs. Special
Account (SA) for the Bank funds will be kept in Ministry of Finance (MOF). MOF has managed Bank
supported projects in the past and the staff is familiar with the processing of withdrawal applications and
disbursement of funds. The PPMOs will review disbursement requests from the LPMOs, make changes, if
necessary. These will be forwarded to MOF through PFBs for review and, if found to be correct,
withdrawals will be made from the Special Account and the funds transferred. MOF will also process
requests from the PFBs for direct payments to suppliers from the Special Account. Financial management
and control systems for the Project, including tabular formats for financial reporting have been confirmed.
CWRC's PMO will submit their disbursement requests through MWR to MOF.
Audit
The review of the status of compliance by the Borrower and Project implementing entities with audit
covenants in on-going Bank-financed projects revealed financial management weaknesses in Hubei
Province. These weaknesses were discussed during appraisal of the Project and Hubei agreed to take
appropriate corrective measures to minimize the risk for reoccurrence of the financial management
weaknesses under the Project or under any other Bank financed operation. Project records and accounts,
including the SA, for each fiscal year will be audited, and the annual audit report will be submitted by
MOF to the Bank by each July 1 of the following year. The National Audit Office will be retained as the
auditors for the Project. At the provincial level the Hubei and Hunan Audit Administrations will carry out
audits under the Project.
For a detailed assessment of the financial management reviews carried out see Annex 13:
*   Review of Financial Management System for the assessment of the adequacy of the Project
financial management system. The results of the assessment and corresponding Action
Plan to address measures needed to improve capabilities are included in Annex 13,
- 18 -



Attachment 1.
*  Review of Financial Management System, Section V: Internal Controls.
* Review of Financial Management System, Section IV: Financial and Accounting System,
Section VII: Project Reporting Requirements and Section VIII: Audit Arrangements.
Financial aspects of O&M
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of the Yangtze dike systems is currently organized at Dike
Management Offices at three levels: Province, Prefecture/City and County/District. The Dike Management
Offices will also be the main agencies responsible for implementation of project works, which will ensure a
smooth transition to their O&M functions and responsibilities. In the long-term, O&M of the dikes and
river banks are planned to be self-financing through improved collection of flood control and river structure
maintenance fees from those benefiting from the flood protection works. During Loan Negotiations the
Borrower has assured that a consolidated plan designed to ensure the proper operation and maintenance of
all flood protection facilities included in the Project will be prepared by the provinces for submission to the
Bank for exchange of views by December 1, 2002, accompanied by an adequate financing plan therefor.
The plan will include the schedule of charges and timetable for its establishment and a proposal for funding
the part not covered by such charges, together with other information that the Bank may reasonably
request. During the preparation of the O&M Plan, MWR and the provinces will exchange views with the
Bank on the various elements of the Plan, which is to ensure financial and physical sustainability of the
flood protection facilities improved under the Project. Advisory services from foreign and domestic sources
will be required to prepare this O&M plan.
Fiscal Impact:
The Project is a Central Government Project because of its responsibility for flood protection of large rivers
which traverse several provinces. Hence the Project is largely fmanced by the Central Government. The
Central Government's share in the investments for dike strengthening will be 80%, with the provinces
providing the remaining 20%. For the "underwater" river bank protection works the Central Government
will fund 100% of the costs with implementation carried out by CWRC, a Central Government Agency
and part of MWR. The Central Govermnent will provide US$225.2 million during the construction of the
Project, of which it will allocate US$112.4 million to the provinces and US$112.8 million to CWRC. In
addition to that amount the Central Government will also assume responsibility for payment of Interest
During Construction (IDC) on the Bank loan estimated at US$23.8 million over the entire Project
implementation period and the front-end fee of US$2.1 million. The Central Government is making
arrangements to provide US$215 million (86%) from floating domestic bonds. Therefore, the immediate
fiscal impact of this Project will be the IDC and front-end fee payments of US$23.8 and US$2.1 million
respectively, which is relatively insignificant. The provinces will provide US$84.5 million in counterpart
funding to this Project. The provision of these funds will have a fiscal impact on both Provincial
Governments, although these are relatively small compared to their provincial budgets which are in excess
of US$ 10 billion per year (See Annex 4 for other impacts during the operation of the Project).
3. Technical:
3.1    General   The provinces prepared the detailed designs for the Project works, based on the
Yangtze Basin Master Plan and national codes established for such works. The Changjiang Water
Resources Commission, in particular their in-house specialized institutes, and the Water Conservancy
Bureaus and Design Institutes in the two provinces all have considerable know-how and experience in the
design of river dikes and river embankment protection works. The review and approval procedures vary
depending on the classification of the dikes. The designs of the more important dikes, such as the class I
and II dikes under the Project, will have to get State Development Planning Commission approval, while
- 1 9-



other classes are approved by the MWR. Reviews are also carried out to ensure consistency in designs
between the provinces. The table below lists the agencies reviewing and approving the designs:
Class of Dikes         Design Stage        Reviewing Agency         Approving Authority
Class I and II       Feasibility Study      MWR (GIWP)                   SDPC
Preliminary Design      MWR (GIWP)                   MWR
Class III and IV      Feasibility Study         CWRC                      MWR
Preliminary Design        CWRC                       MWR
Note:  SDPC - State Development and Planning Commission
MWR - Ministry of Water Resources
CWRC - Changjiang Water Resources Commission
GIWP - General Institute Water Resources Planning and Design
Technical assessments were made of the proposed remedial solutions for the current problems and
weaknesses of the river embankments, dike bodies, dike foundations and cross-dike structures experienced
during major floods, with special reference to what happened during the 1998 flood. The 4ssessments
revealed that China is behind in adopting new design features and in using modem materials and
technologies tested and applied elsewhere in the world. Recommendations have been made to adopt the
modem materials and new technologies, which will be more cost-effective.
3.2    River embankment protection works   With the exception of a few cases in Hubei, the proposed
measures for "under-water" bank protection works include the following standard practices: (i) dumped
rip-rap protection for the bank, with extra rocks specified for the toe section; and (ii) use of gabion rockfill
and large blocks. For the above water portion of the embankment the standard practices are: (iii) placed
rockfill and pre-cast concrete slabs protection. To protect the soil of the river bank a graded gravel filter is
laid between the rocks and the bank to be protected is specified for the "above-water" portion, but not for
the "under-water" portion of the river bank. Other special types of bank protection methods have been
tested and are being considered for selected sites. The methods include the use of a mattress of
chain-connected concrete slabs together with a geo-textile filtering sheet, as applied at the Long Wang
Miao critical section, which is situated at the confluence of Han and Yangtze River. The mattress was laid
to the toe of the slope about 20 m below the water surface. The flow velocity during the construction
period of low flow was below I m/s. In the Bapu dike, where the unprotected bank receded at a rate of 100
m/year, a testing section was constructed with a combination of dumped rip-rap for the "under-water"
portion and concrete-lining in the "above-water" portion. The use of geo-textile mattresses with interwoven
pockets injected with concrete has also been contemplated by the local design and contracting firms in
collaboration with overseas manufacturers/suppliers and trials have been installed. In addition to the above
the following methods and materials will also be tested and considered for implementation: (i) the use of
gabion or wire-mesh rock mattresses, in conjunction with the placement of a filtering layer or sheet; and (ii)
the use of geo-container and other suitable forms and materials.
3.3    Dike strengthening works    The major defects and problems with the existing dikes are: (i)
inadequate height and width, slope failures, toe scours and excessive leakage; (ii) piping of the foundation;
(iii) defective connection of cross-dike structures and the dike embankments; and (iv) buildings on the
dikes. The proposed dike strengthening works are: (i) construction of RC flood walls, normally with 4-6 m
high backfill; (ii) heightening the dike with a crest width of 8 m for Class 1 or Class II dikes and repairing
- 20 -



by clay grouting; (iii) foundation treatments by concrete diaphragm and cut-off walls, including jet grouting
and cement mixed piles; (iv) construction of down slope berms, in some cases surcharged; (v) laying of
geo-textile sheets to improve drainage and minimize the loss of material; (vi) back-filling ponds (old borrow
areas) located on the land side of the dikes; and (vii) construction of relief wells. In addition to these
measures a variety of seepage control techniques, such as the provision of steel sheet pile and
thin-diaphragm walls, are being analyzed and tested for possible use.
3.4    Cross-dike structures   Most of the cross-dike structures, such as culverts, sluices, pumping
stations and associated pipelines, were built before the 1970s. They are in poor operating conditions due to
uneven settlement and due to the lack of maintenance, low design standards and sub-standard material and
construction. Structural cracks and leakage are common. Many structures require strengthening, extension
and reconstruction, among others to meet the cross-sectional profiles of the heightened and broadened
dikes. In addition, foundation treatment for leakage control, which calls for the provision of concrete
cut-off walls, jet grouting and cement mixed piles, and installation of snail trap pools are required.
3.5    Monitoring and inspection   In view of the scale and importance of the Project, a long-tenn
structural monitoring system will be developed for the river dikes. Simple and low-cost instruments or
gages will be installed at selected locations of the dikes and its vicinities, to monitor the performance of the
river and dike embankments, foundations, and cross-dike structures. A system has been incorporated under
the Project to monitor the safety of the dike during the high water levels during floods, in particular the
physical settlement movements in the dikes and also the movement of subsurface water through the dike
and the foundation. A special task force will be forrned to formulate this long-term monitoring system for
implementation under the Project. Hubei will establish a computerized data acquisition system of
piezometers for monitoring seepage through the dike body and foundation and monument gauges for
deformation and settlement for critical sections of the dike body and foundation. In spite of renewed efforts
to provide better bank protection and channel stabilization, there will be the continuous process of
adjustments and movements of the river channel as a result of the dynamic fluvial processes. The shifting
of the channel alignments is expected to be more pronounced in river sections with extensive meandering.
This invariably will require remedial measures to counter the changes in the river regime in the future. The
potential degradation of the river bed resulting from the completion of the Three Gorges Dam will introduce
further complications to the river training and bank protection program. Solutions to these longer-term
issues can also be improved with the help of the continuous monitoring and surveying program of the
changes in the channel regime. Coordination and dissemination of information and exchange of experience
among the provinces in the Yangtze River Basin and the various research and planning organizations are
needed to enhance the overall efficiency of the Project. Regular inspection and maintenance of the entire
system of flood control dikes are of utmost importance to the success of the Project. The ultimate design
objectives will only be achieved with adequate supervision of works and quality control.
Progress with Project implementation will be monitored through the preparation of semi-annual reports
providing: (i) physical and financial statements;  (ii) recommendations and findings of the
international/national panel of experts; and (iii) recommendations for improvement of implementation
performance. The progress reports will be due not later than April 15 and October 15 of each Project
implementation year. For resettlement the reports will present progress with: (i) construction of houses and
infrastructure; (ii) payment of private and public compensation; (iii) establishing development programs for
resettlers which will incorporate the results of the independent monitoring program of the RAP and the
findings of the international/local panel of resettlement/environmental experts. Regarding environmental
management the reports will state progress with : (i) the implementation of the environmental management
plan which will include the periodic monitoring results of the construction inspectors and the
international/local panel of resettlement/environmental experts. In addition to the progress monitoring
- 21 -



reports a mid-term report will be prepared not later than July 15, 2002 which will summarize the results of
all the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out under the Project and measures to ensure the
efficient canying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives. Regarding Project
implementation plans CWRC will provide their annual implementation. plan and required investments by
October 15 of each year commencing October 15, 2000. A consolidated plan of all other aspects of Project
implementation for the following year will be provided October 15 of each year starting October 15, 2001
but for the first Project year by December 15, 2000.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Project is a Central Govermnent undertaking, with the Changjiang Water Resources Commission
(CWRC) and Hubei and Hunan provinces responsible for Project execution. CWRC will oversee the
implementation of the river bank protection works and execute the river modeling studies. Hubei will
assign the responsibility for the implementation of Project works to local govermment agencies owning the
dikes. These are either the Dike Management Offices or the Water Conservancy Bureaus at local
government levels (Prefecture/City and District/County). The structure and staffmg of these offices will be
adjusted to match the Project scope and the technical complexity of contracts to be implemented. The local
governments will establish additional implementation units as needed. In Hunan all works fall under the
jurisdiction of Yueyang City, which has established the Yueyang Project Implementation Office. The
implementation agencies will follow instructions from central and provincial government agencies, to
ensure that adequate attention is being paid to important Project implementation actions, such as adopting
agreed bidding procedures for the contracting of construction supervisors, suppliers and contractors.
4.2 Project management:
At Central Government level, a Central Project Steering Committee (CPSC) has been set up in Beijing,
with representatives of the Ministry of Water Resources, Ministry of Finance (MOF), State Development
and Planing Commission (SDPC) and the Project Provinces for oversight of Project implementation and to
provide policy guidance to the CWRC and the provinces. A Project Coordination Office (PCO) has been
established by MWR, which will be headed by a senior official of MWR and assisted by qualified staff in
adequate numbers assigned from MWR, CWRC, and Hubei and Hunan provinces. The PCO will ensure
that: (i) an integrated approach towards the implementation of river bank protection works by CWRC and
dike strengthening works by the provinces exist; (ii) CWRC and the provinces apply the agreed procedures
and national standards for design and construction of river dikes and embankments as well as for
resettlement; and (iii) the adoption of adequate quality control assurance measures under the Project.
Provincial Project Leading Groups (PPLG) will provide guidance to the Provincial Project Management
Offices (PPMOs) responsible for Project implementation. Each province has set up Project Leading
Groups (PLG) for coordination and policy guidance and Project Management Offices (PMO) for
day-to-day coordination for Project implementation and between the PMOs at local Government levels. For
the purpose of implementing the River Modeling Studies CWRC has established a Project Leading Group
(CWRCPLG). A Project Management Office under CWRCPLG (CWRCPMO) is located at Yangtze
River Scientific Research Institute.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The CWRC will have responsibility for design and construction of works related to the riverbank
protection and foundation treatment of Grade I and II dikes. The PPMOs will be responsible for
procurement under ICB procedures and NCB with values exceeding Yuan 35.0 million. It will oversee the
procurement of remaining works implemented by the executing agencies at local government levels. The
-22 -



Guidelines for procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in January 1995
and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 will be applied to Bank
financed procurement of goods and works. The Model Documents developed by the Ministry of Finance
and the Bank will be adopted for all International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) for civil works and goods, and the Standard Bid Evaluation Form will be used. Where
Model Documents are not available the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents will be adopted. Procurement
of civil works through NCB will be managed by the PPMOs. Works procured through NCB costing in
excess of Yuan 35.0 million will be processed by the PPMOs. The LPMOs will manage all other NCB
contracts. Small civil works contracts and works implemented through force account will be procured by
Dike Management Offices at the DistrictlCounty level. Major equipment will be procured through ICB,
while other goods will be procured through NCB and National Shopping. The national competitive bidding
procedures are not consistent with the Bank's acceptable practices, and therefore the Borrower has agreed
to modify their procedures, as set forth in the agreed supplemental letter to the legal documents as
mentioned below. The lack of experience with undertaking procurement in accordance with Bank guidelines
will be addressed as follows. First, procurement training will be provided to staff handling procurement at
the PPMO and LPMO levels. This training will be overseen by Resident Mission procurement staff and
will start during the Project Launch Workshop. Second, a strict Bank review of procurement procedures
will be put in place during the early stages of Project implementation, which would include Bank review of
the first three NCB contracts in each province irrespective of contract values. Third, during Loan
negotiations a supplemental letter to the legal documents has been agreed stating that the Borrower and the
Provinces will not use local bidding procedures unacceptable to the Bank for procurement of Bank financed
works, goods or services. This letter will be signed by the Borrower and Hubei and Hunan provinces at the
time of Loan signing.
4.4 Financial management issues:
As agreed with MOF the Project will be disbursing in accordance with the Bank's traditional disbursement
procedures and will not be using PMR-based disbursements, .The Provincial Finance Bureaus (PPFB) and
the PPMOs in Hubei and Hunan Provinces all have experience with implementing Bank financed projects
(e.g. the Yangtze Basin Water Resources Project, the Yangtze Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project)
and are therefore familiar with the existing disbursement, procurement, financial reporting and auditing
requirements. PFB has accumulated extensive experience with both the Bank and MOF's requirements in
preparation and processing of withdrawal application and financial management of Bank-financed projects.
However, additional training will be provided to Project staff at all levels (see Annex 13). Pending
addressing the steps outlined in the action plan (Annex 13, Attachment 1), the Project satisfies the Bank's
financial management requirements as stipulated in OP/BP 10.02.  There are no other financial
management issues.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: A (Full Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
5.1.1 Environmental impact
The Project has been allocated environmental Category "A". A comprehensive Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) of the Project has been prepared by the Yangtze Research Institute for Water Resources
Protection, with assistance from Design Institutes for Water and Hydropower of the participating
Provinces. A summary of the EIA is attached in Annex 11. The complete EIA report is available in the
Project file. The EIA addresses potential adverse environmental impacts satisfactorily. The EIA considers
the environmental effects that could possibly occur as a result from the Project. Those include for the
participating provinces assessments of impacts on: (i) natural physical resources; (ii) natural ecological
resources; (iii) economic development; (iv) quality of life standards, including public health; and (v) global
-23 -



environmnental issues. The EIA formulates all Significant Environmental Issues (SEIs) affected by the
Project, describes the potential of each SEI to cause adverse environmental effects if left uncontrolled, and
recommends control measures defined as Environmental Protection Measures (EPMs). The SEIs of
concern include environmental aspects of resettlement, land use, impacts on aquatic species, public health,
dike structural stability, downstream impacts, flood emergency programs, borrow areas and spoil disposal,
cultural relics, impacts on Dongting Lake flood release, construction operation constraints and several
other SEIs of lesser levels of significance.
5.1.2 Additional Environmental Issues
In addition to the above, the overall EIA includes an evaluation of adequacy of the Project plan with respect
to: (i) provisions for adequate public participation in Project planning an implementation; (ii) compliance of
the plan with Chinese national/provincial environmental laws/regulations; (iii) evaluation of environmental
economics (adequacy of the Project economic analysis for inclusion of environmental impacts and EPMs);
(iv) compliance with environmental standards of the Bank (as well as the Government of China); (v)
evaluation of the Project's influence on global environmental parameters (global warming and
biodiversity); and (vi) enviromnental risk assessment.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Environmental Management Plan
An overall Environmental Management Plan (EMP), with provisions for implementing all EPMs specified
in the EIA, and associated costs, has been developed as an integral part of the EIA. This requires : (i)
establishment of an Environmental Management Office (EMO) in each participating province, with
responsibility for implementing the EMP, including environmental monitoring; (ii) employment of an
international panel of environmental (and resettlement) experts; (iii) provision of environmental staff
training program. Assurances have been obtained that project works would be implemented following these
measures thus ensure an environmental sound and sustainable project. The EMP's main features include: (i)
measures to lessen the magnitude of adverse impact; (ii) measures to offset any residual adverse effects not
solved by mitigation; and (iii) provisions for meaningful environmental monitoring as described below. In
some instances, where feasible, the EIA recommends a third kind of EMP, namely Enhancement measures,
for those situations where a small additional investment would yield valuable environmental benefits.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: October, 1999
A supplemental EIA dated March 2000 was received by the Bank in April 2000.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Participatory Approach
About 370 stakeholders were randomly consulted through surveys carried out for all people affected by the
Project. A detailed response from the stakeholders is presented in the EIA Report. The stakeholders were
screened at the start of Project. preparation. The draft EA was first written to determine who are
stakeholders, who are affected people before Bank missions started consultations. The government
undertook a wider survey for the entire dike strengthening program in 1998 and 1999. Detailed
consultations were carried out through questionnaires developed by the Provinces.
-24 -



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Environmental Monitoring
The environmental monitoring program to be carried out by the P/EMO includes the following:
*   Recruitment and training of a Environmental Construction Inspectors (ECIs), who will be
assigned to work with and through the Engineering Construction Supervisors, to check on
operations of the contractors to ensure that the works are carried out in accordance with
the contract specifications including the application of official instructions and penalties as
needed to ensure sound environmental performance. Following completion of the
construction stage, the P/EMO will utilize ECIs as needed to monitor Project
environmental performance during the operation and maintenance stage.
*   Arrangements for periodic monitoring of environmental performance of the resettlement
program, to be carried out by ECIs of the P/EMOs, including checking of both rural and
urban resettlement situations.
*   An international/national Panel of Environmental Experts shall convene periodically, to
evaluate the Project's overall environmental performance including the identification of
shortcomings and recommended remedial measures, to be reported directly to Government
and the Bank. This includes evaluation of performances of P/EMO and of the contractors.
Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that a panel of experts will be
employed by September 15, 2000 and thereafter maintained for the implementation of the
EMP and monitoring of the impact of the implementation of the Project on the
environment.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
6.1.1 Social Impact
This Project will help prevent the loss of lives when floods occur in the Yangtze River Basin. In addition,
fighting floods calls for vast inputs of labor from all sections of society to repair damage and prevent
breaches at vulnerable locations of the dikes. This has high social costs through disruption of family life,
interruption of education and, most of all, diversion of effort from more profitable work. If the dikes are
strengthened, there will be fewer crisis situations and less of a demand for emergency labor inputs. In the
event of a breach, which is more likely in the absence of the Project, there would be many adverse social
consequences. Public facilities, such as govermnent offices, hospitals, schools, would be taken out of
service. Also, many private enterprises would be closed down, some of them permanently, and this would
have more drastic consequences. The Project's flood protection measures will benefit a land area of over
2.1 million ha, of which about 1.0 million ha is cultivated land. Better flood protection facilities are
expected to improve the quality of life of about 15.4 million people and provide improved protection to
physical assets, such as houses, schools, hospital, and other public and commercial buildings in key urban
and rural areas. Essential infrastructure facilities such as airports, ports, rail roads and the important
national highway 107 will also be better protected against flood hazards.
6.1.2 Resettlement and Land Acquisition
In accordance with existing Chinese legislation no structures shall be erected on major dikes and within 50
m on both sides of the toes of the dikes. This legislation (Flood Control Law) stipulates that existing
structures not complying with the law will need to be removed. In addition, the widening and raising of the
- 25 -



existing dikes require acquisition land. As a result, the Project will cause the resettlement of about 47,992
people (10,958 households) living in 22 counties, 44 townships and 180 villages. Of them about 80% are
engaged in agriculture. Most (over 60 percent) of the Project Affected People (PAP) will move "backward"
(about 1-1.5 km) from their present locations. Similarly, 33,749 mu or 2,250 ha of land, of which 50% is
cultivated, 1,519,091 m of housing, and 243,923 m' industrial and commercial units will need to be
acquired. The Project will require the rebuilding or restoration of 176 km of roads, 254 km of broadcasting
and TV lines, 476 km of telephone lines, 143 km of 10 kV and 20 km of 35 kV transmission lines. To
mitigate the adverse impacts of the dike strengthening works, each province prepared a comprehensive
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) in accordance with OD 4.30 for the resettlement and compensation
requirements of PAPs. The main objective of the RAP is that both the resettled people and the host
populations receiving them, will not be adversely affected by the resettlement, nor will the Project have
detrimental impact on their living standard. Their new earning potential will be at least as good as
previously and income losses during the transition period will be compensated for. The Bank found the
RAPs satisfactory. They adequately cover: (i) details of people and assets affected; (ii) legal framework
for land acquisition and compensation; (iii) institutional arrangements; (iv) cost details and budget
requirements; (v) implementation schedule; (vi) participation, consultation and grievance procedures; and
(vii) monitoring and evaluation by Project agencies and an independent extemal group. Provincial agencies
have already gained considerable experience with resettlement in this area, because has already initiated the
resettlement of about 2 million people from polder areas that were flooded in 1998. Compensation
standards have been established. An independent organization will be employed by each Province to
monitor the implementation of the RAPs.  The monitoring will cover: (i) physical progress with
resettlement implementation; (ii) PAP livelihood restoration; (iii) PAP participation in the resettlement
process; (iv) grievances and effectiveness of the grievance procedures; and (v) proposed measures for
improvement. The RAP is summarized in Annex 12 and the detailed RAP is available from the Project file.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Technical factors have determined the dike sections to be strengthened under the Project. There will be
little change in existing dike alignments. The widening and raising of the dikes, which in many cases have
been there for hundreds of years, will require the relocation of a significant number of Project Affected
People (PAPs) as well as the removal of physical assets. Extensive consultations will be held with the
PAPs, regarding: (i) resettlement to new locations; and (ii) levels and extent of compensation. Resettlers
will also participate in the decision making regarding the selection of construction teams for the building of
their new homes and public buildings, such as schools, hospitals and churches. There will be public
campaigns as necessary to alert people in the Project areas about possible environmental hazards caused by
the dike strengtiening works under the Project. This applies in particular to concerns that the dike
strengthening works may cause the spread of schistosomiasis and possibly other public health hazards.
There will be active participation between the provincial Project agencies and those at lower levels of
government (city, county, townships and villages) in the formulation and implementation of the Project
works, in particular the dike strengthening works. Village communities are expected to actively participate
in the implementation of Project works, through the provision of labor to the contractors. A detailed list of
key stakeholders and the levels of participation are indicated in the table below:
- 26 -



Participatory Approach         IdentificationlPreparation    Implementation    Operation
Resettler groups                IS, CON and COL           IS, CON and COL      CON and COL
People involved in dike Construction  CON and COL         COL                  COL
Township government             CON and COL               CON and COL          CON and COL
County goverment               CON and COL                CON and COL          CON and COL
City governments               CON and COL                CON and COL          CON and COL
Prefecture WCB                 CON and COL                CON                  CON
Provincial WCB                  CON and COL               CON and COL          CON and COL
Provincial government           CON                       CON                  CON
Chiangjiang WResource Commission  CON and COL             CON and COL          CON and COL
Note:  IS = sharing information; CON = consultation; COL  collaboration
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Project activities involve continuous consultations with village and township leaders and PAPs throughout
the resettlement and restoration processes. Women's groups, professional groups, local government groups
and non-government organizations have been consulted throughout the preparation of the Resettlement
Action Plans. This will continue during Project implementation.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
During Loan negotiations assurances have been obtained that Project Management Offices will be
maintained throughout the implementation period of the Project. Each PMO at provincial,
municipality/prefecture and county level will establish environmental management divisions with a chief
and qualified staff in adequate numbers, who will be responsible for coordination and implementation of the
EMP in the province. For social monitoring a resettlement monitoring office will be established at province,
municipality/prefecture and county levels with a chief and qualified staff in adequate numbers who will be
responsible for coordination and implementation of the RAP in the province
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
During Loan negotiations each Project province shall, not later than September 15, 2000, employ a
independent monitoring institution and thereafter retain the institution to monitor, evaluate and report on the
socio-economic progress of all persons affected by the Project as well as on all aspects of imnplementing the
agreed RAP for each province.
- 27 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
O Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           T2 Yes D3 No
O Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   1 Yes El No
El Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)  _                              _ Yes E No
El Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     El Yes I No
El Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 [ Yes Z No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  El Yes 1 No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             I Yes El No
Ol Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             El Yes 1 No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  El Yes [I No
El Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60. BP 7.60. GP 7.60)        El Yes 1 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The Project complies with all relevant Bank policies. The policies that were examined in detail are the
environmental, natural habitats, and resettlement aspects of the Project in accordance with the stipulations
of OD 4.01, OP 4.04 and OD 4.30 respectively. The following steps have been taken to comply with public
disclosure requirements of OD 4.01 and OD 4.30:
-  The draft Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) and Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
were submitted to the Infoshop (EXTIN) on November 23, 1999 prior to the December
1999 appraisal of the Project;
*   The final RAP was submitted to the Infoshop (EXTIN) on December 6, 1999;
*   A summary of the EIA of the Project was submitted the Bank's Board Operations Division
on November 24, 1999 and distributed to the Board members on November 29, 1999;
-   The revised RAP of March 2000 was submitted to the Infoshop on April 3, 2000;
-   Supplemental report to the EIA of April 2000 was submitted to the Infoshop on May 8,
2000;
*   The Final RAP of April 2000 was submitted to the Infoshop on May 31, 2000; and
*   The draft EIA and RAP in Chinese were made available to the public in Hubei and Hunan
in December 1999 and the final versions in March 2000. The EIA also covers natural
habitat issues. Television networks and provincial and local newspapers announced for
three consecutive days the names and locations of the public libraries in the Project areas
where the EIA and RAP were available for the public to consult.
The procurement policies and guidelines as indicated in OP 11 and Financial Management requirements as
stipulated in OP/BP 10.02 have also been complied with. There are no indigenous people in the Project
areas and therefore OD 4.20 does not apply.
- 28 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project sustainability will depend on: (a) effective Project management and implementation arrangements;
(b) sound design and implementation standards; (c) strong interagency coordination at various government
levels to ensure adequate funding and efficient use of funds, timely completion of procurement plans and
good quality design and construction of works; and (d) the introduction of efficient and sustainable
inspection and maintenance procedures and effective arrangements to assure adequate funding for
inspection and maintenance after Project completion. These elements have been incorporated in the Project
design.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
- In addition to the Project works, steps  S        - Borrower and Bank to ensure careful and
will be taken to: (i) remove polder areas           periodic monitoring of annual funding and
bordering the dikes; (ii) rehabilitate              implementation plans for key Project works with
detention basins and organize that people           MWR, CWRC and provincial governments
will be moved quickly to safe areas in
critical situations; and (iii) properly
maintain retention lakes
- Government will not carry out the       M         - Bank to plan regular reviews with MWR and
entire dike strengthening and related               CWRC on the funding and implementation
projects                                            status of this large program
- Adequate budget is provided to          M         - Monitoring of funding commitments and
implement all agreed measures detailed in           releases; periodic review of financing plan with
RAPs                                                all level of Governments
- Detailed coordinating arrangements are   M        - Create awareness of importance of
made between the Yangtze Basin                      coordination in MWR and PLGs at all levels of
Commission and the provincial flood                 government
forecasting offices
- Government will enforce all aspects      S        - MWR/CWRC and Bank to monitor the
defined in the Flood Control Law                    implementation of the Law
- Government will enforce carrying out of  S        - Government will establish International /local
all EPMs for all project development                Panel of Environmental and Resettlement
stages as specified in the EIA                       Experts and will have continuing periodic
meetings of the Panel which will have
responsibility for periodic environmental
performance of all project participants including
delineation of gaps and recommendation for
needed corrections
From Components to Outputs
- Adequate and timely provision of         M        - Monitor commitments and releases and
counterpart funds                                   conduct periodic reviews of the financing plans
and sources of funds with finance bureaus at all
levels of government
- 29 -



- Detailed designs are completed as         M         - Make sure that provinces retain experienced
scheduled                                             design organizations, and that their work is
reviewed regularly. Mobilize design expert panel
to address design issues and design quality
- No major floods will occur during the     S         - Ensure that: (i) adequate stockpiling of flood
Project implementation period                         fighting materials; (ii) early warning systems;
and (iii) flood emergency plans, are in place
- Continued strong support for Project      M         - Ensure careful monitoring by the Borrower
funding and implementation from all                   and the Bank of funding and Project
levels of government                                 implementation progress
- Timely decision making on key             M         - Bank and local government agencies to cany
procurement actions                                   out review processes expediently; make sure
MOF/IBRD approved model bidding documents
for ICB and NCB are used
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There are two possible controversial aspects. The first is the association of this Project with the Three
Gorges Project. As indicated in the section on Development and Strategy this Project is focused on the
rehabilitation of the dikes which have been there for hundreds of years. The design elevation of the dikes
have never changed since the 1950's following the 1954 flood. The TGP was approved in 1990 and the dike
designs have not been changed. The dikes stand on their own as the basic first line defense for floods up to
a 20-year recurrence period irrespective of whether TGP is built or not. The second controversial aspect is
the association of the resettlement component under the Project with the voluntary resettlement of about 2
million victims of the 1998 flood. Most of the people who lived within the river side of the main dikes have
been resettled. The majority of these people had been living there for decades and have been building
subsidiary dikes to protect themselves from the river floods. During the 1998 floods many of the secondary
dikes breached. Many of the people living on the river side were permanently displaced, because secondary
dikes were breached and the flood waters stayed around for over 9 months in some of the low-lying areas.
The Central Government developed a scheme to compensate the affected people by giving them housing
and land so that they could restore their livelihoods. The compensation payments for these people are
different from the involuntary resettlers. The flood victims are often resettled in different places and the
majority of the compensation payment was for housing. Most of them continued farming in their old
places. The resettlement under the Project is quite different since it runs along the dikes and is essentially
involuntary. The two schemes are different in nature and cannot be assessed as one program.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Standard
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The Borrower shall:
- 30 -



(a)    Maintain at all times during Project Implementation a Central Project Steering Committee, with
representatives of the MWR, SDPC, MOF and the Project Provinces to be responsible for the oversight of
Project implementation.
(b)    Maintain at all times during Project implementation a Central Project Coordination Office (PCO)
with terms of reference and resources acceptable to the Bank, headed by an official of MWR and assisted
by qualified staff in adequate numbers assigned from MWR, CWRC and the two Project Provinces, to
ensure that: (i) the national standards for design and construction of river dikes and embankments as well
as for resettlement are applied under the Project; and (ii) appropriate quality control assurance measures
are followed.
(c)    Employ  no later than October 15, 2000 and maintain throughout the period of Project
implementation, a panel of independent experts with terms of reference, qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Bank, to assist with reviews of design and construction programs under the Project,
provide technical guidance to the Borrower and Project Provinces on such programs and to monitor,
evaluate and report to the Bank on the implementation of such programs.
(d)   (i) Take all measures to ensure that the Enviromnental management Plan (EMP) is carried out in a
manner designed to ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with sound environmental
practices and standards; and (ii) maintain policies and procedures adequate to monitor and evaluate the
implementation of the EMP and the RAP and the achievement of their respective objectives and to include
the results of the monitoring program in the semi- annual progress and the mid-term review reports; and
(iii) ensure that any proposed revisions to the EAP and the RAP have been agreed with the Bank;
(e)    Prepare through CWRC, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, not later than
December 1, 2000 and, thereafter, not later than October 1 in each subsequent year, a proposed plan for
the river bank protection works and physical river model implementation, which will: (i) describe the
activities proposed to be carried out under these components under the Project during such period; and (ii)
be accompanied by a financing plan therefor and evidence satisfactory to the Bank that funds in adequate
amounts are available for the payment of expenditures to be incurred in carrying out these components.
(f)    Consolidate the implementation plan mentioned above, together with the annual implementation
plans fumished by each Project province and furnish this plan to the Bank not later than December 15,
2000 and, thereafter, not later than October 15 in each subsequent year, commencing October 15, 2001.
The Borrower shall give the Bank reasonable opportunity to exchange views on the plans and thereafter
shall promptly take all measures necessary to ensure proper implementation taking into account the views
of the Bank.
(g)    Consolidate the plans designed to ensure the proper operation and maintenance (O & M) of flood
protection facilities included under the Project furnished to it by the Project Provinces and furnish these to
the Bank by December 1, 2002 accompanied by an adequate financing plan to carry out the 0 & M. The
Borrower will give the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review the plan and ensure the proper
implementation of such a plan will take into account the views of the Bank.
(h)    Prepare semi-annual progress reports, not later than April 15 and October 15 in each calendar
year, which will: (i) summarize the results of monitoring and evaluation activities on the progress achieved
with Project implementation during the preceding six months; (ii) consolidate the semi-annual reports
furnished by CWRC and the Project provinces [see section (q) below] and the reports furnished by the
panel of engineering experts [see section (c) above]; (iii) set forth physical and financial progress with
- 31 -



Project implementation, both cumulatively, during the preceding six months; and (iv) set out additional
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of its
objectives during the following Project implementation year.
(i)    Canry out a mid-term review of Project implementation not later than July 15, 2002 and prepare a
mid-term report for this review which will summarize the results of monitoring and evaluation activities on
the progress achieved in carrying out of the Project to date; consolidate the mid-term reports furnished to it
by the Project Provinces; and set out any additional measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following the date.
(j)    Furnish each report for its review to the Bank and thereafter promptly take all measures required
to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives based on the
conclusions and recommendations of the reports.
Provinces of Hubei and Hunan shall:
(k)    Each maintain at all times throughout the period of Project implementation maintain, the following
offices with terms of reference, staffmg and resources acceptable to the Bank: (i) Provincial Project
Leading Groups for Project oversight and guidance for policy decisions, (ii) Provincial Project
Management Offices to be responsible for day-to-day execution of the Project, including procurement of
goods and services and monitoring and evaluation of implementation progress; (iii) Environmental
Management Office at the provincial and prefecture or municipal levels to be responsible for coordination
and supervision of the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan of the Project, as it relates
to the impact of the construction works and the resettlement implementation; (iv) a Resettlement
management division within the PMO each of the provincial, prefecture or municipal and county levels
that will ensure that the RAP is carried in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and (v) Local Government
Project Management Offices that will be responsible for the construction of works and implementation of
all other parts of the Project.
(I)    Each employ, not later than September 15, 2000 and thereafter at all times maintain:
(i) a monitoring institution with TOR, qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, to
monitor, evaluate and report on the socio-economic progress of all persons covered by the
respective RAPs, and
(ii) a panel of environmental and resettlement experts with TOR, qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Bank, to assist in overseeing the implementation of the EMP and the RAP and
monitoring the impact of the implementation of the Project on the environment.
(m)   Each carry out its Respective EMP in accordance with sound environmental practices and
standards. Each Project province shall carry out its Respective RAP in a manner designed to: (i) minimize
involuntary loss of shelter or productive assets or of income or means of livelihood to the extent possible
due to any change in land or water use; and (ii) improve the living standards and production levels of all
affected persons under the Respective Parts of the Project. In addition, each Project Province shall: (i)
maintain policies and procedures to monitor and evaluate, in accordance to guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, the implementation of the Respective EMPs and the RAPs; and (ii) include the results of such
monitoring and evaluation activities [including those of the monitoring institution in the aforementioned (i)]
in each report to be prepared by it and furnished to the Borrower, together with any revisions proposed to
be introduced to such plans to achieve their objectives as shall have been agreed with the Bank.
- 32 -



(n)    Each prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Borrower
not later than December 1, 2000 and thereafter , not later than October 1, in each subsequent year, for
forwarding to the Bank, a proposed annual implementation plan for the following calendar year; (i)
describing the activities which it proposes to carry out under its respective part of the Project including
training programs; and (ii) be accompanied by a financing plan therefor and evidence satisfactory to the
Bank that funds are adequate to carry out the Province's Respective part.
(o)    Each, to ensure the financial and physical sustainability of flood protection facilities included under
the Respective Part of the Project, shall take the following measures in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank: (i) furnish to the Borrower not later than November 15, 2002 for forwarding to the
Bank a plan designed to ensure the proper operation and maintenance of all facilities accompanied by
adequate financing plan; (ii) give the Borrower and the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review the 0 & M
plan and thereafter will carry out such a plan; and (iii) in order to assist the Provinces to prepare the 0 &
M plan the Project Provinces shall employ consultants with experience and qualifications acceptable to the
Bank.
(p)    Each in order to recover the recurrent cost of 0 & M of the flood protection facilities under the
Project take the following measures: establish and collect flood protection charges to recover a substantial
portion of the 0 & M facilities incurred and to finance the 0 & M costs of facilities not covered by the
flood protection charges. Each Province shall prepare, on basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and to
furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, not later than March 31, 2002, the proposed schedule of such
charges and timetable for its establishment and proposal for financing the operations and maintenance
costs not covered by such charges. The Provinces shall give the Bank and the Borrower a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views on the schedule and time table to implement the charges.
(q)    Maintain policies and procedures to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, with indicators
acceptable to the Bank under TOR satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish the following reports to the
Borrower, for forwarding to the Bank: (i) semi-annual progress reports, on April 1 and October 1 in each
calendar year and said reports shall summarize the results of such monitoring and evaluation activities on
the progress achieved and physical and financial progress during the preceding six months and set out any
additional measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out the Project; and (ii) a mid-term report
not later than July 15, 2002 to summarize the results of such monitoring and evaluation activities on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Respective Parts of the Project and set out any additional measures to
ensure the efficient carrying out of its Part of the Project.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1S 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
D 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
E] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 33 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
The Project complies with all relevant Bank policies. The policies that were examined in detail are the
environmental and resettlement aspects of the Project in accordance with the stipulations of OD 4.01 and
OD 4.30 respectively. The procurement policies and guidelines as indicated in OP 11 and Financial
Management as detailed in OP/BP 10.02 are complied with. There are no indigenous people in the Project
areas and therefore OD 4.20 does not apply.
___ _
Daniel J. Gunaratnam              (o frey B. Fox                    Yukon Huang
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
- 34 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHINA: Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project
Key Peffofmance
HiWarcy of Oblecties                 Indicators -onito   & Eoaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:             Sector/ country reports:      (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Promote agricultural development Value of agricultural output in the Statistical data gathered by the   Stable political transition and
and rural economy            flood-prone areas of the three  Provinces                   maintenance of the reform
provinces                                                  program
Incorporate major water storage,  Key investments in flood control Review of annual provincial and  Government ensures adequate
transfer, irrigation, and flood  projects, such as river   state investment programs     budget allocations for flood
control projects             embankment protection, dike                                 control investments
strengthening and creation of
detention basins
Alleviate infrastructure     Production loss in industry, cities Provincial statistical data, Project Government implements
bottlenecks (through reduction of and towns due to floods;  implementation data, flood   programs to resettle people living
flood damage), and safeguard the permanent and temporary   impact data including number of on and near the dikes
environment                  dislocation of people, and public  people dislocated and public
health problems              health hazards
Meet environmental requirements Water, air and soil quality and   As specified in EIA    Specified   EPMs   will  be
as specified in the Project  key social indicators of affected                           implemented
Environment Protection Measures population monitored in Project
(EPMs) in the EIA            area
Project Development          Outcome I Impact              Project reports:              (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                   Indicators:
Improve river bank protection and Eliminate flood damage for  MWR's analysis report on flood   A bigger than the one in 20 year
strengthen dikes and thereby  floods of less than I: 20 year    damage                   flood will not occur until
lower the risk of dike breaches   return period until the                                completion of TGP
during floods                completion of TGP. After that
protection will improve to 1: 100
year return period
Improve dike ownership       Improved organizational and   Monitor frequency of inspections, Government will actively pursue
awareness and responsibility for  funding arrangements for dike   maintenance funding and quality  and support implementation of
the dike maintenance         inspection and actual         of maintenance works          the " flood control" law
maintenance works.
To develop a system of flood  Issuance of a MWR directive for  Monitor collection rates of flood  State Government will approve
protection charges from      flood protection fee collection or protection fee from Project  the flood levy or ear-marked
beneficiaries, such as cities,  ear-marked taxes           entities and provincial agencies  taxes level set by the provinces
enterprises, and others or                                                               and Dike Maintenance Offices
ear-marked taxes.
- 35 -



Output from each              Output Indicators:            Project reports:               (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Improve flood protection for  Reduction in flood damage     Flood damage analysis reports   In addition to the Project works,
about 2 million people                                      from the provinces and MWR    steps will be taken to: (i) remove
polder areas bordering the dikes;
(ii) rehabilitate detention basins
and organize that people will be
moved quickly to safe areas in
critical situations; and (iii)
properly maintain retention lakes
Reduce the flooding in areas  Reduction in flood damage     Flood damage analysis reports    Government will carry out the
behind the dikes, through                                   from the provinces and MWR     entire the dike strengthening
improved discharge into the river                                                         and related projects
at low flow
Project Affected People (PAP)   Pre- and post resettlement income M & E processing and reporting  Adequate budget is provided to
will be properly compensated in  levels, restoration of living  carried out by independent  implement all agreed measures
accordance with the agreed RAP  environment and complaints    organizations               detailed in RAPs
stipulations                  and/or grievances received
- 36 -



^            ' ' .  ..    '~~~~~~~~P6                                . <..i-.5-:. '--- --.._., ,':'- ''",,,'  -';
Project Components /         Inputs: (budget for each      Project reports:              (from Components to
Sub-components:              component)                                                  Outputs)
River bank protection and    US$103.4 million              Annual work programs,         Adequate and timely provision of
foundation treatment                                       semi-annual progress reports and counterpart funds
expert panel reports
Dike strengthening for Hubei & US$264.5 million            Annual work plans and         Detailed designs are completed as
Hunan                                                      semi-annual physical and      scheduled
financial progress reports
Dike monitoring systems & river US$22.1 million            Period Bank supervision missions No major floods will occur during
modeling                                                   to review implementation      the Project implementation period
progress and exchange views with
the key stakeholders in the
Project
Equipment for dike maintenance  US$6.1 million             Findings and recommendations   Continued strong support for
from expert panels reviewing  Project funding and
design and construction of   implementation from all levels of
complex works as well as the    government
implementation of RAPs and
EMPs
Resettlement                 US$96.9 million               Reports from independent groups Timely decision making on key
monitoring the implementation of resettlement actions
RAPs
Environmental management     US$1.9 million                Findings and recommendations of Competent EMO and panel will
expert panel on environment and  be established with sufficient
resettlement                 periodic meetings as needed and
timely decision making on key
inmplementation issues for environment
and resettlement
Engineering and Project      US$19.2 million               Project progress reports and  Timely decision making on key
management                                                 procurement audits            implementation/procurement
issues
Institutional Development    US$5.6 million
(The above cost figures include
price and physical contingencies)
- 37 -



Annex 2: Project Description
CHINA: Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$103.38 million
River Bank Rehabilitation
1.1.  In Hubei Province, the river can be divided into twelve sections; Shangjingjiang (upper Jingjiang),
Xiajingjiang (lower Jingjiang), Yueyang, Luxikou, Paizhouwan, Jiayu, Wuhan, Tuanfeng, Huangzhou,
Daijiazhou, Huangshi, Longping. Of these twelve sections, the Bank Project supports activities on the
Shangjingjiang, Xiajingjiang, Wuhan, Tuanfeng and Huangzhou sections. The following describes the
riverbank protection and dike strengthening works. The riverbank protection and dike foundation treatment
works will be undertaken by CWRC, with Central Government support.
(a)    Jingnan Dike Section: The Jingnan dike lies on the south bank of the river, beginning at Chajiayue
and ending at Wumakou, with a total length of 189.3 km. There are nine critical river sections 54.3 km
long requiring bank protection works. These nine selected sections are typically with steep bank slopes and
relatively narrow flood plains. The most prominent vulnerable areas are Beimenkou and Tiaoguan
sections:
*  Beimenkou section: This section is situated in the north of Shishou. Soon after the natural
straightening of the Ox-bow section at Xiangjiawan on June 11, 1994, the impact of the river
flow caused a 3-km stretch of bank failure with a maximum shoreline recess of 400 m. The
maximum rate of shoreline recession was 55 m/hr. The distance between the shoreline and the
toe of the Shengli dike was merely 38 m. On Oct. 14, 1998, another bank failure occurred at
an alarming pace of 100 m shoreline recess within 3 hours. The water depth was close to 20 m
and the riverbank was in the proximity of the toe of the dike. The critical condition was
temporarily under control with the rescue operation of dumped rip-rap and other measures. So
far, approximately 15,000 cum of rocks were dumped at the site covering 1,400 m long
shoreline. As the river regime is still undergoing the adjustment process, new development of
bank failures continues.
*   Tiaoguan section: This section is situated at the tip of the major river bend with a narrow river
cross section, high flow velocities and deep water. Typical river bed elevation is at -18 m and
the water depth reaches 60 m during the flood period. During the flood of July 13, 1989, the
water level reached 38.4 m and the velocity exceeded 4.0 m/s. The protective stones
embankment were washed away and a stretch of 50 m of the toe section of the outer dike slope
was damaged. So far, the length of protected shoreline is 1.7 km and the cumulative amount of
dumped rip-rap is 27,000 m.
(b)    Wuhan Section  The city of Wuhan is situated at the confluence of Yangtze River with its
tributary the Han River. The total length of the dikes is about 279.9 km, which includes 44.6 km of flood
protection walls. The total length of the dike considered by this Project is 170.2 km of which the bank
protection works cover 30.6 km, comprising 18.9 km in the City area and the rest in the Suburban areas,
exclusive the portion along the Hannan Dike Section which is not part of this Project. There are seventeen
critical river sections with a total length of 30.6 km. These areas are characterized by narrow flood plains
with severe bank failures.
- 38 -



(c)     Bapu Section   The Bapu dike is situated on the south bank of the river where the river bends in
an "S" shape fashion due to the presence of a series rocky points. The flow regime is generally stable,
except for the frequent lateral shifts of scouring and deposition banks. The critical shoreline lies on the
concave side of the river bend where the thalweg, or deep water line, is close to the bank. Notable critical
stretches include Liutsu Xian, Zheng Jiawan, and Shuitawu to Wuzhang-gang. The total length of proposed
river embankment protection work covers 8.0 kin, which is about 18% of the dike length.
(d)     Huang-gang Section  The Huang-gang dike is located along the north bank of the Yangtze River
between the two tributaries Ju and Ba. The total proposed length of embankment protection works is 1.3
km.
A summary of the iocation and extent of riverbank protection works, within the scope of the Bank
supported Project, is shown below in Table 1.1:
Table 1.1: The Extent of River Bank Protection and Dikes Strengthening Works - Hubei
River Rank Protection                   Dwke  Wrndro Bnknt N-ed
Word Bank Protect
River Section        Critical Bank    .    Length of Project Total Length                    Cross Dike
(km)    Locations  Works (km)  (km)    Embankment Slope Protecion  Seepage  Strudur
1km)   Works (kin)    (kin)   ~~~~~~(koo)  (km)    Control (kin)  IN..)
Jingnan Dike, South Bank, Jingzhou    54.28      4        54.28    195.82     154.51     134.14    84.44      15
Wuhan Section                         18.88     13        18.87    180.92     143.04     136.94    98.07      42
Wuchang Section, South Bank        14.74      11       14.76     60.91      6760       64.62     41.23      22
Hanyang Section, North Bank         412       2         4.12     2634       27.47      27.47     18.11       9
Hankou Sechon, North Bank            -       -           -        9.95       4.25       1.13
Hannan SecAion, North Bank           -                   -       43.72      43.72      43.72     38.73      11
Huanggang Section, North Bank         1.26       1         1.26    42.49      42.49       34.40    18.80       9
Bapu Dike, South Bank, Er2ho. City   19.42       9         .00     43.60      43.60       51.54    43.60       4
Total of Hubei Province            93.82     27        82.41    442.83     383.64     357.02    244.92      70
Note; ' to be implemented by CWRC
With the exception of a few trial sections, most of the proposed measures for river bank protection include
the following standard practices:
*   Dumped rip-rap protection for the underwater portion of the bank. Extra amount of rocks is
specified for the toe section. However, there is no provision of a graded filtering layer or filter
cloth between the rock and the bank soil to be protected.
-   Placed rockfill protection for the above water portion of the bank slope. A graded layer of
gravely filtering layer between the rocks and the bank soil is specified.
Other special types of bank protection methods have been tested or are being considered at selected sites.
The methods include the use of a mattress of chain-connected concrete slabs, as applied at the
Longwangmiao critical section which is situated at the confluence of the Han and Yangtze Rivers. With
the help of installation boats, the mattress was laid down to the toe of the slope, about 20 m below the
water level. The flow velocity during the construction period of low flow was below 1 m/s. In the Bapu
section, where the unprotected bank receded at a rate of 100 m/yr, a test section was constructed with a
combination of dumped rip-rap for the underwater portion and concrete lining for the above-water portion.
The use of geo-textile mattresses with a series of interwoven pockets injected with concrete has also been
contemplated by local design and construction firms in collaboration with intemational
manufacturers/suppliers. The trial section is located at Hepu of the Paizhouwan dike of the Wuhan
section.
- 39 -



1.2      Hunan Province                There are a series of prominent meandering segments along the upper
reach of the river. A major ox-bow section at the Shangchewan (across the Jincheng polder) has been
straightened by training dikes in the 1 970s. This resulted in an overall shortening of the river length by 21
km. The lower reach of the river is comparatively straight. However it is characterized by the presence of
several river constrictions, such as Chenglingji, Ruji and Yalan, which tend to create wide river sections in
between. The expansion of the river cross sections downstream of the rocky constrictions facilitates the
formation of alluvial islands. The thalweg, or the deep water line, of the river is generally closer to the
riverbank on the Hunan side than to the Hubei Provinces side. In spite of the repetitive applications of
dumped rip-rap protection for the riverbanks, alarming rates of shoreline erosion were observed in various
stretches of the river, as shown in Table 1.2. Typical hydrographic survey of the shoreline change before
and after the 1998 flood at Xinshazhou, Hongshuigang, Jingjiangmen and Chengluo as shown in Table 1.2.
Table 1.2: Recession of Shorelines due to Bank Failures
Location        Length of         Length of        Rate of Bank    Rate of Bank           Maximum         Maximum Near
Shoreline    Bank Failure             Erosion            Erosion        Scour Depth    Shore Velocity
km               km           Average (m/yr)    Max (m/yr)               m/yr                m/s
Xinshazhui           21.7              10.0               51.7               60.0              14.5*               2-3
Hongshuigan           20.0              9.85               26.7               80.0               12.0               2-3
Jingjianrnmen *        133.5            6 6.75              30.6               96.0               15. 9              33-4
Chengluo            28.0             23.9                30.0               10.0               8.0                2-3
Observed in 1997
The proposed measures for river bank protection include the following:
*    rip-rap protection of the underwater portion of the bank, including toe protection;
*    pre-cast concrete slabs or placed rip-rap protection for the above-water portion of the
bank; and
*    use of gabion rockfill and large blocks of concrete for underwater bank protection.
A summary of the locations and length of the proposed bank protection works is shown in Table 1.3.
Protection works using both rock and pre-cast concrete blocks are proposed for the above-water portion of
the bank. Dumped rip-rap protection with extra toe section is proposed for the underwater portion of the
river bank.
Table 1.3: The Extent of River Bank Protection and Dikes Strengthening Works - Hunan
Wnrld R-nS Prial
River Section           Critical Bank       Length of Project Total Length                                Cross Dike
(km)    Locations   Works (km)   (kmj)   Embankmet Slope Protection   Seepage   StDitures
(kim)       (kim)    Control (kmn)  __(No.
Minsheng Polder Section,O OD0 - 32+624   26.03        9         24.03      32.62        20.13       27.62      18.99
Jianshe PolderSection, 32+724 - 51+012     8.70        4          8.70      18.29        8.60        15.33       8.12
Jianxin State-Farm Section, 51+012 - 53*915  -                     -         2.90         -           -           -
Jushan State-Farm Section, 53+975 - 76+800  -        -             -        22.83       20.93        16.23      19.75
Yongji Polder Section, 78+200-86+380       8.06        2          5.48       8.18        6.28         6.18       5.93
Lucheng PolderSection, 86+380 -109+110     5.40        3          5.40      22.73       20.73        20.13      19.56
Jiangnan Polder Secton .109+110 -136.044    -         -            -        26.93        18.58       22.99      17.54
Huanggailou Slate Farm Section, 139+044 - 142+055  1.40  1        1.40       7.21        1.70         5.01       1.60
Total of Hunan Province                 49.59       19         45.01     141.70       96.95       113.49      91.49
Note: ^ to be Implemented by CWRC
Oniv 116 km Is Included In the Pro/ect
-40 -



Project Component 2 - US$264.52 million
Dike Strengthening and Seepage Control Works
2.1    Hubei Province In Hubei province 1,577 km of dikes on both banks of the river, are divided into
nine sections: Xiabailizhou, Jingjiang, Jingnan, Jianli - Honghu, Xianning, Wuhan, Bapu, Huanggang and
Yangxin. Most of the dikes were built as early as the 17th century. They have been subsequently raised and
improved throughout the years. As expected, the structural conditions are generally poor due to the inherent
shortfalls of construction materials, construction methods and dike maintenance. This is compounded by
the variability of foundation conditions and the presence of animal/termite holes throughout the
embankment. Piping and sand boils occur frequently throughout the dike and foundation areas whenever
there is a prolonged period of high water level in the river. The dike sections under the Bank financed
portion are Jingnan, Wuhan, Bapu and Huanggang described below:
(a)   Jingnan Section The Jingnan dike lies on the south bank of the river, beginning at Chajiayue and
ends at Wumakou, with a total length of 189.3 km. Except for a stretch of 0.9 km long new embankment,
the remainder of the 186.8 km dike length are to be raised and strengthened. The Project covers the
heightening and strengthening of the dike systems in Shishou, Gong-an, Jingzhou and Songzi, with a total
length of 154.0 km.
(b)    Wuhan Section  Wuhan, the capital city of Hubei Province, is situated at the confluence of the
Yangtze River with its tributary Han River. The dikes along the Yangtze River in Wuhan are 285.64 km
long, of which 175.3 km is located on the left bank and 111.2 km on the right bank, including 44.6 km of
flood protection walls. The dike protection system is categorized into two parts: "City" and "Suburb"
front.
*  The "city" portion of the dikes comprises three flood protection rings: Hankou (10.0 km of dikes in
three segments along the Yangtze), Wuchang (59.0 km of dikes in 5 segments along the Yangtze)
and Hanyang (14.2 km of dikes in three segments along the Yangtze River).
*   The "Suburban" portion of the dikes, with the total length of 56.7 km along the main stem of the
Yangtze River, comprises six flood protection revetments: Hannan, Shiyigong, Junshan, and
Wuhui.
(c)    Bapu Section  The Bapu dike is situated on the south bank of the river, within the territory of
Erzhou City. The total length of the Bapu dike is 43.6 km excluding the stretches of natural high ground. It
is the key flood control barrier for the Liangzi Lake drainage basin. Liangzi Lake is the second largest lake
in Hubei, with a drainage area of 3,365 km2. Bapu dike was built almost 300 years ago in the Qing
Dynasty. Over the years, it has been raised and strengthened. However, it has various deficiencies including
poor embankment material and inadequate height and width. As a result, incidents of piping, sand boils and
slope failures are common during a major flood. During the 1998 flood, there were over 300 locations of
piping, sand boil, cracks and slope failures observed. In addition, eight dike breaching cases of the
subsidiary dikes occurred around the polders. The main river dike was saved from a major disaster through
large scale emergency rescue efforts. The dike strengthening works under the Project covers the entire
stretch of the Bapu dike or 43.6 km.
(d)    Huanggang Section  The Huanggang dike is located along the north bank of Yangtze River
between the two tributaries of Ju and Ba. The total length of the dikes is 108.6 km, including 40.6 km along
the tributary Ba river: Laocheng and Changsun dikes. The Project covers 45.5 km of dike strengthening
- 41 -



work, including a 3-km stretch of floodwalls. The dike system comprises Changcheng and Dulong dikes in
the Huangzhou District and upper Dulong Dike in the Tuanfeng County. Most of the dikes were built 500
years ago. Over the years, they have been raised, widened and straightened. However, they show various
deficiencies including the lack of height and width, poor embankment material, close proximity to the
riverbank, and the existence of numerous ponds and open pits behind the dike. The ponds and pits were
formed as a result of the excavation of construction material for building the dikes. In the past, the ponds
and/or pits were within 50 m distance from the toe of the dike in certain sections. A high percentage of the
drainage improvement works and pressure relief wells have been seriously clogged. During the 1998 flood,
118 out of the total 260 relief wells malfunctioned. There are many cases of embankment cracks and
termite holes.
A summary of the locations and lengths of the dike sections for strengthening, heightening and broadening
is also shown in Table 1.1. The proposed remedial works for the dikes are the following:
* Construction of RC flood walls, normally with 4 - 6 m backfill;
* Heightening the dike with a crest width of 8 m for Class I or Class II dikes; most of the dike
will be repaired by clay grouting;
*  Foundation treatments by diaphragm walls (under CWRC's responsibility);
*   Construction of berms and back-filling the ponds on the land side of the dike;
* Construction of relief wells; and
o Dike slope protection with masonry and plant trees to protect against wave action on the
riverside and grass on the landslide of the dikes; and
* Upgrade and pave dike roads and provide lighting.
A variety of seepage control techniques, such as steel sheet pile wall, and thin-diaphragm wall, are being
evaluated and tested.
2.2   Hunan province In Hunan province the existing main dike length is 137 km. The upper reach has
four dike sections: Minsheng, Jianse, Jianxin and Junshan, with an aggregated length of 76 km. There are
four dike sections in the lower reach: Yongji, Lucheng, Jiangnan and Huanggaihu, with a total length of 61
km. The major defects and problems of the dikes can be categorized into the following areas:
* Inadequacies of the dike section;
* Piping through the foundation;
* Presence of buildings on the dikes; and
*  Numerous cross-dike structures with defective embankment connections.
A summary of the locations and lengths of dike sections to be strengthened, heightened and broadened is
shown in Table 1.3. The proposed remedial works for the dikes are:
* Construction of RC flood walls;
* Heightening the dike from either upstream or downstream side of the dike, depending on the
location of borrow pits, and environmental limitations; and
* Consolidation of the dike by clay grouting;
-42 -



*   Foundation treatments by cutoff walls including jet grouting and cement mixed piles (under
CWRC's responsibility);
* Construction of down-slope berms, and back filling the ponds created in the past as borrow
areas for the dike construction;
* Dike slope protection by masonry outside, grass cover inside of the dikes and trees for wave
protection on the riverside berms; and
*   Upgrade and pave dike roads and install lighting devices.
Cross-Dike Structures:
2.3   In Hubei Province most of the cross-dike structures, such as culverts, sluices and pumping
stations, were built before the 1970s. They are in poor operating conditions due to poor maintenance, low
design standards and use of sub-standard material and low construction quality. Structural cracks and
leakage are common. There are many structures that require strengthening, extension and reconstruction.
Some of the badly deteriorated structures, which no longer serve any significant role for providing
irrigation and drainage, will be taken out of operation. Seventy (70) cross dike structures will need to be
repaired, extended or reconstructed under the Bank financed Project. Details of the cross-dike structures in
Hubei province to be improved under the Project are given in Table 1.1.
2.4   In Hunan province cross-dike structures are culverts, sluices, pumping stations and traffic passes
with flood control gates. On average, there are two cross-dike structures per kilometer length of dike. Most
of the structures were built in the 50's or 60's with poor material and outdated design. Most of these suffer
from leakage and cracks due to uneven foundation settlement. These structures invariably require
foundation treatment for seepage control and installation of snail trap pools. The length of most of the
structures will be extended to meet the cross-sectional profiles of the heightened and broadened dikes. The
foundation treatments for the cross-dike structures include concrete cutoff walls, jet grouting, and cement
mixed piles. There are 3 sluices to be repaired, 29 to be lengthened and 32 to be rebuilt. In addition to
improving 64 sluices one new culvert is to be built. These works will be carried out with 100%
government financing.
Project Component 3 - US$ 22.07 million
(i) Dike Monitoring (US$2.0 million) and River Modeling (US$20.1 million)
3.1    Dike Monitoring System. Under the Project Hubei will set up a computerized system to monitor
possible seepage through the dike and settlementldeformation of the dike. The system will consist of
piezometers placed at regular and critical locations on and away from the dike. This will enable the
monitoring of flows through the dike body and foundations. A real time data acquisition will be established
for all the piezometer measurements, dike deformation and water levels alongside the dike. The
measurements will provide advanced waming for possible weaknesses in the dikes during periods with
high water levels. This will allow taking early protection measures to prevent dike breaches.
3.2    River Modeling   Under the Project CWRC will develop a physical model of the middle reach
(Yichang to Hukou) of the Yangtze River. The model will be a movable bed type used to predict the
changes in the geomorphology of the river. It will also depict the flows through Dongting and other lakes.
The CWRC has not been very successful in using mathematical models, although several such models have
been tried. The Yangtze River has in most parts established a stable river regime water course. However,
there are several sections of the river which are still unstable and need to be studied using a physical model.
The physical model will be built with the instrumentation and equipment available to CWRC in Wuhan.
- 43 -



Project Component 4 - US$6.08 million
4.1    Equipment for Dike Maintenance  At present, dike maintenance, which is carried out during the
dry season from September to May, relies mainly on a large labor force with basic tools and outdated
equipment. This method is inefficient and the work carried out is of poor quality. The Project will provide
modem equipment for dike operation and maintenance and step up the organizational capacity to carry out
regular maintenance. The equipment will include wheel loaders, bulldozers, excavators, dump trucks,
boats and other related equipment. Included under this procurement will also be gates and hoists for the
various cross-dike structures.
Project Component 5 - US$96.92 million
4.2    Resettlement  In accordance with the "Flood Control Law", no residential structure shall be
erected: (i) on the dike; (ii) within 50 m from the landside of dike toe; and (iii) within 50 m from the
riverside of dike toe. Existing structures not complying with this law will be removed. In addition, the
construction of enlarged dike sections will require acquisition of about 16,150 mu of cultivated land. A
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for the Government's Mid Yangtze River Flood Control Project has been
prepared in accordance with OD 4.30 to facilitate the mitigation of adverse project impacts on the affected
people. The Resettlement Program for this Project includes various housing and economic restoration
measures which have been developed in order to; (i) minimize disturbance to resettlers by providing local
resettlement options, family production/income restoration altematives and necessary support in the period
of transition; (ii) be acceptable to both resettlers and host populations; and (iii) maintain or improve income
levels and standards of living of Project Affected People (PAPs). The mechanisms for restoration of
enterprises and infrastructure and utilities affected by the Project are described below and in more detail in
Annex 12.
(a) Household Restoration   Some 10,958 families or 47,992 people in the Project area will have to be
resettled, of which 4,464 families or 19,213 people come from Hunan and 6,494 families or 28,779 people
from Hubei. In accordance with the guidelines to minimize distances to altemative resettlement sites, and
considering resettler's preferences, the following resettlement altematives were developed, based on
available land areas and their capacity for increased production, and the viability of industrial expansion.
Resettlement Type                                        Number of 1H      Number of People
Internal Resettlement
(resettlement of rural households within the existing village area)  8,078        35,484
Collective Resettlement
(relocation to new residential areas in rural and urban sites -- as  2,890        12,508
appropriate --, urban resettlement to apartment blocks and rural
safety platform sites)
Total                                10,958             47,992
(i) Internal Resettlement  Over 70 percent of resettlers (35,484 people and 8,078 families) will be
relocated within their existing village administrative areas, minimizing disturbance to existing social and
economic systems. This type of rural resettlement will require land improvement and the redistribution of
village productive lands, and in eleven instances, the transfer of lands from adjacent villages to supplement
lands currently available within the village. Environmental and economic capacity investigations identified
the 168 villages as feasible for this type of resettlement, in light of the production restoration measures
-44 -



proposed. In most cases of internal resettlement, infrastructure and service displacement will be minor, and
the restoration of all impacted services is included in the resettlement program and budget. House
reconstruction will be undertaken by the villagers themselves, in accordance with agreed standards.
(ii) Collective Resettlement Collective resettlement shall involve 2,880 families or 12,508 people
to 22 sites. These sites consist of three types for collective resettlement:
*   Towns or Communities - where new housing areas can be constructed in existing
communities;
*   Township Blocks - where new residential blocks will be developed for resettlers; and
*   Safety Platforms - elevated platforms will be built nearby to villages, on top of dykes
where residential housing will be constructed.
In Hunan and Hubei, 22 residential sites will be developed for rural resettlers in towns or communities,
providing for a total of 2,880 households with 12,508 people with facilities and houses. Through land
re-allocation and land development, the RAP provides for the largely rural resettlers to maintain
agricultural livelihoods. In Hunan, 10 residential safety platforms are proposed for the resettlement of
1,715 rural households totaling 7,331 people. In each instance, minimum housing and living space
standards will be met (35 m' /person), and where adequate infrastructure and facilities including water
supply and sanitation, drainage, power will be provided.
(b) Production Resettlement    The income and production restoration program described in Annex 12
was developed according to guidelines of: (i) providing a variety of restoration alternatives, with land as
the primary means of support; (ii) utilizing local resources and development activities without adverse
impact to the environment; and (iii) development of secondary and tertiary village run industries. Target net
income per capita rates have been set by the program as a target and measure for successful
implementation of the program. An analysis of the land capacity in the affected villages, examined land
availability and level of development of existing lands in the identification of the selected sites where
reduced land holdings, with appropriate investment an development would not compromise carrying
capacity. Production plans for each province are detailed in Annex 12 and outlined below:
Hunan Province - Improve 52,762 mu (3,517 ha) of land to support 5,077 resettlers and
transfer 1,277 mu (85 ha) of "foreign" village tilled land to support 893 resettlers, among
which 623 mu is irrigated tilled land and 604 mu is non-irrigated tilled land.
Hubei Province - Support 7,651 rural resettlers, among which 6,183 persons will be
involved in improving  low-output land, 342 persons in animal husbandry, and 1,126
persons in village-run enterprises and tertiary industry.
Implementation of these programs will require an estimated investment of Yuan 166.96 million, of which
Yuan 54.6 million in Hunan and Yuan 112.34 million in Hubei, which will be provided from the land
compensation and resettlement funds. The average investment per capita is Yuan 12,048.
(c) Occupation of Temporary Lands   Total land affected by the Project has been identified as 12,954
mu (864 ha). Compensation will be provided based on annual output (for lost production), and to meet
restoration costs. These costs are not included in the RAP as they are met by the Project construction
costs.
- 45 -



(d) Infrastructure and Enterprise Recovery All relocation or reconstruction of Project affected
infrastructure will cost approximately Yuan 64.4 million. Affected enterprises total 247, and in many
instances land acquisition will result in only* partial relocation or loss of land with minimal impact to
production. Investment for their relocation and lost production is estimated at Yuan 107.25 million. In
addition, a contingency of 5 percent of the housing compensation value has been included in the overall
Project contingency to provide a safety net fund for vulnerable groups.
4.3    Public Consultation and Social Adjustments The resettlement program includes provisions for
public consultation and social adjustments to ensure achievement of the goal that the affected parties
(resettler families and the host communities) involved in the Resettlement Operation are not disadvantaged
by the Project and to the extent feasible will share in the Project benefits. Preferential policies specified by
the Government and additional policies included in the RAP will be available to resettlers. Policies of
primary importance to resettlers include:
*   Tax and levy deduction for acquired lands, and for exemptions or reductions in the
associated grain quotas, thereby supporting both the resettlers and host communities;
*   Industrial, agricultural and animal husbandry taxes and levies at the county and
township levels will be adjusted in accordance with the magnitude of impact in each
administrative area;
*   The resettlement budget includes a contingency for the support of vulnerable groups if
they are disadvantaged by the Project, and due to unforeseen circumstances, unable to
restore their livelihood under the proposed RAP; and
e   In the year of resettlement, resettlers will be exempted from contributing annual labor
to dike maintenance.
Because some resettlement has already started agreements made include that:
*   The PMOs comply with the compensation standards stated in the RAP in accordance
with the appropriate local and national regulations by the end 1999. In doing so,
current compensation standards for all project areas will be made uniform, and
supplementary compensation to resettlers already compensated at the lower standards
will be made to the RAP standards;
*   Disbursement will commence a minimum of three months in advance of demolition to
allow for house completion before demolition, thus avoiding (or at least minimizing)
any need for temporary accommodation;
*   The County/Township ROs will carry out land readjustment and provide
land/productive compensation as soon as possible in accordance with the guidelines
and standards specified in the RAP, which will fund land improvement and
agricultural extension activities to improve the productivity of the land available to
resettlers after relocation;
*   Project specific Resettlement Offices (ROs) will be established  at all levels, with
staffing in accordance with the requirements outlined in the RAP;
*   The proposed training programs for the ROs will commence by end December 1999,
and guidelines on the management of funds will be issued to all ROs; and
*   Independent Monitoring  and Evaluation  Organizations and  Supervisors for
Resettlement will be appointed by end 1999.
-46 -



Project Component 6 - US$1.87 million
Environmental Management Plan The environmental impacts of the Project are internalized through
measures within the Project to offset all negative impacts. The most significant environmental impact is
resettlement. In addition there is a whole host of smaller but also important impacts due to construction
activities. All these impacts are internalized through the following measures:
*   Resettlement impact is offset by a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) which essentially
replaces all that is lost by resettlers with a package of compensation measures for housing,
infrastructure restoration and livelihood development; and
*   Agreed compensation measures to mitigate the impact of the Project works, which are
included in the technical specifications for contracts for the construction of works, to
protect the environment (See table on the Construction Constraints Table 6.1).
The environmental management plan is therefore to supervise the construction of environmental
requirements by contractors and the resettlement action plan to ensure that all the environmental
requirements are satisfied. These requirements are summarized as action items:
*   To ensure effective implementation of the Environmental Protection Measures (EMP)
specified in the EIA, including environrmental monitoring, Provincial EMOs are to be
established in each province. The provincial EMOs are responsible for implementing
environmental protection requirements in the Project final design, construction, and
operation stages of the Project for both dyke constructions areas and resettlement areas.
o   The P/EMOs  are to be established immediately following the signing of the Loan
Agreement with the Bank.
T The P/EMOs will be responsible for handling arrangements for visits of Bank Missions
and of the International Panel of Environmental Experts. On each visit the Panel will
review the Environmental Performance (EP) of the Project including the roles of the
C/EMOs, P/EMOs, ECIs, CCs, VEOs, EMO sub-contractors, and all participants will
prepare a report on the adequacy of EP, with recommendations for improvements. This
work covers all stages of Project implementation including preparation of final design, bid
documents for construction, construction and operation.
3   The overall EMP includes provisions for: (i) training of the staff of the P/EMOs including
ECIs, VEOs, and subcontractors; and (ii) study tours to foreign countries to analyze and
observe how environmental aspects of flood control are managed for large rivers of
sirnilar size and problems as the Yangtze, to take advantage of lessons learned there in the
comprehensive R&D program (for programs carried out in the Mississippi river basin
carried out over the past half-century by the US. Corps of Engineers).
Detailed illustrative diagrams are provided in Annex 11, which show the institutional structure of a
provincial EMO and its relationship with other parties included in environmental management for the
Project of each province; the main work of the P/EMO, etc. The cost estimates for environmental
management for Hubei is about US$1.4 million and for Hunan US$0.5 million, which are included in the
Project cost.
- 47 -



Table 6.1: Environmental Construction Constraints
No.    ITEM              CONSTRAINTS -
All items must meet applicable National/Provincial standards.
1   Wastewater           Acceptable management of wastewater discharge
2    Air Pollution Control A. Acceptable management of all fuel burning machines
B. Blasting and quarrying dust;
C. Road dust control (wetting, paving); and
D. Control of obnoxious and toxic fumes.
3   Water Use            Use water as planned with care not to waste it and to obtain permission of agencies
having the rights for use of waters to be utilized.
4   Workers Health       A. Worker medical examination to screen out infectious virus carriers (initial and
periodic)
B. Provision of safe drinking water supply
C. Provision of adequate wastewater treatment and management
D. Provision of adequate schistosomiasis prevention as described in Section 4.2.4
E. Provision of adequate food sanitation
F. Provision of adequate control of disease vectors including mosquitoes, rats and
flies.
G. Provision of adequate medical care capabilities and facilities including first aid
facilities
H. Provision of adequate excreta management for buildings not serviced by sewers
I. Provision of adequate occupational health and safety measures
J. Provision of adequate housing with sanitary facilities
5   Noise Control        A. Management of use of all machines to ensure meeting of appropriate standards for
noise/vibration control
B. No construction activities in night in residential area if feasible
C. Adequate protection facilities provided to workers operating high noise/vibration
machines
6    Spoil Disposal      Dispose construction spoils in specified places and specified manners including
protection dikes and resurfacing
7   Solid Waste          Collect solid wastes regularly and dispose of collected wastes in adequate sanitary
Management          manner, including use of fencing to prohibit access to disposal sites by children
8   Soil Erosion         Resurfacing all borrow areas and filling areas and furnish dykes as needed to protect
____                      against discharge of soil runoff to downstream waterways
9   Cultural Relics      No damaging activities to cultural relics; stop construction whenever cultural relics are
discovered to allow EMO to determine needed protection measures
10  Aquatic Ecology      Specially assign person/persons to watch appearance of the Yangtze rare species when
"blow filling" operation is carried out in river sections sensitive to the species
11  Saicheng Lake        Make sure workers will not enter the bird migratory area
Migratory Birds
12  Land Use             Occupy land as specified; no damage to farm land and crops; resurfacing land after
use
13  Construction Stage    Contractors (C) are fully responsible for environmental protection in his construction
area and camping area. C are to make monthly environmental report to define EMO
on its performance in implementing the EPMs/constraints. Construction contracts
must include listing and description of all EPM to be furnished by C. Also, the EMO
will furnish Environmental Construction Inspectors (ECIs) to work with the Engineer
Construction Supervisor (ECS) and allow the ECS to make formal requests for
__________________________  improvement in C performance as needed.
-48 -



Project Component 7 - US$19.17 million
Project Management   The Project management component essentially finances the activities of: (i)
PMO's at various levels of government; (ii) design work and technical assistance for producing the designs
and preparation and processing of bidding documents; (iii) construction supervision; (iv) environmental
management and supervision; and (v) Project monitoring and evaluation.
Project Component 8 - US$5.63 million
Institutional Development (US$4.8 million) and Flood Prevention and Disaster Mitigation TA
(US$0.8 million).
8.1   Institutional Development Under the Project MWR/CWRC and the Project provinces will be
provided with technical assistance, training and study tours in China and other countries. These activities
will help the Project to address institutional constraints in such critical areas as: (i) dike maintenance; (ii)
resolution of complex design and construction issues; (iii) adoption of modem materials and construction
technologies; and (iv) ensuring financial and physical sustainability of improved infrastructure facilities.
Technical assistance will also be provided for institutional development of dike management offices to
become autonomous corporate bodies which will be self sustaining through the collection of flood
protection charges or fees.
8.2    Flood Prevention and Disaster Mftigation TA   CWRC's physical model outputs will provide
information for: (a) changes in the regimne due to sediment movement in the middle and lower reaches as
various structures -- mainly dams -- are completed on the tributaries and main stem of the river. This would
give advanced forecasts for locations needed for river bank protection and for river training needs; (b)
changes in flow in the river and lakes due to sediment movement and its effect on lake sedimentation rates
and the capacity of the lakes to maintain flood storage volume; and (c) flood control strategies after the
completion of the flood control structures.
-49 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHINA: Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project
River Bank Protection, including Dike Foundation Treatment  46.54       37.84         84.38
Dike Strengthening - Hubei                                103.16        84.28        187.44
Dike Strengthening - Hunan                                 27.91         15.03        42.94
Dike Monitoring/River Modeling                             15.96         4.46         20.42
Equipment for Dike Operation and Maintenance                1.99         3.83          5.82
Resettlement, Hubei and Hunan                              73.83         11.93        85.76
Environmental Management & Monitoring                       0.78         0.94          1.72
Engineering and Project Management                         13.72         4.28         18.00
Institutional Development                                   2.22         2.94          5.16
Total Baseline Cost                                      286.11         165.53       451.64
Physical Contingencies                                   31.14          18.97        50.11
Price Contingencies                                       10.88         7.01         17.89
Total Project Costs             328.13        191.51       519.64
Inte,est during construction                23.77         23.77
Front-end fee                     2.10          2.10
Total Financing Required             328.13        217.38        545.51
Estimated Project Cost
Project cost have been prepared by dike sections and Project components using mid-1999 prices. Physical
contingencies have been added at the rate of 20 percent for the River Bank Protection works, 10 percent for
other Civil Works and Resettlement and 5 percent for the Electrical and Mechanical works, Engineering
and Project Management and Institutional Development. Together physical contingencies amount to
US$50.11 million. The cost related to planning, survey, design, construction supervision and quality
control have been estimated at 3 percent of the base costs. An overhead of 0.3 percent of base costs for the
Borrower's management offices and 0.7 percent for the Provincial Management Offices have been added
under Project management. Price contingencies for the local cost share for works, goods and services have
been calculated based on projected escalation factors of 1.0 percent for 2000, 2.0 percent for 2001 and 3.0
percent for the years thereafter. Price contingencies for foreign costs were as forecasted by the MUV
indices of 1.6 percent for 2000, 2.5 percent for 2001, 2.6 percent for 2002 and 2.5 percent thereafter.
Price contingencies add up to about 4 percent of the Project base cost, which is equivalent to about
US$17.89 million. Interest During Construction (IDC) and other charges, including the front-end fee, levied
during the Project implementation period on the disbursed and undisbursed portions of the Bank Loan are
estimated to be about US$25.87 million over the four year Project implementation period. The latter costs
which will be fully borne by the Central Government. The total Project cost is estimated at US$519.6
million (or about Yuan 4.31 billion equivalent), exclusive of IDC and commitment charges (US$23.77
million) and the I% front-end fee charged by the Bank (US$2.10 million).
- 50 -



Table 2-1: Project Cost Summary
The People's Republic of China
Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project (YDSP)                   tRMB Million)                              IUSS Milliont
Components Project Cost Summary                                                                                        %       % Total
Foreign    Base
Local    Foreian     Total      Local    Foreian     Total   Exchanae   Costs
A. Changjiang Water Resources Commission
1. River Bank Protection                              346.0     283.1      629.2       41.7       34.1      75.8         45        17
2. Seepage Control for Dike Foundaton                  40.3       31.0      71.3        4.9        3.7        8.6        44         2
3. Technical Review Panel                               3.3       6.8       10.1        0.4        0.8        1.2        67          -
4.RiverModeling                                       127.2       272      154.3       1531        33        1R6         IF         4
SubtotalChangjiangWaterResourcesCommission             516.8     348.1      864.9       62.3       41.9      104.2        40        23
B. Flood Disaster Prevention Center
1. Standards Review                                     25        37         62         03         05        n R                    -
Subtotal Flood Disaster Prevention Center                2.5       3.7        6.2        0.3        0.5       0.8         60          -
C. Hubei Province
1. Dike Rehabilitation                                856.2     699.5    1,555.8      103.2       84.3     187.4        45         42
2, Dike Safety Monitoring System                        5.3       9.8       15.2        0.6        1.2       1.8        65          -
3. Operafion and Maintenance Equipment                 15.5      28.7       44.2        1.9        3.5       5.3         65         1
4. Resettlement                                       465.4      74.6      540.1       56.1        9.0      65.1         14        14
5. Environmental Management and Monitoring              2.8       0.9        3.7        0.3        0.1        0.4       25          -
6. Project Management                                 102.9      34.3      137.2       12.4        4.1       16.5        25         4
7. Institutional Development                            76f       12 3      199         05         1 5        2 4        C          1
Subtotal Hubei Province                              1,455.7      860.2    2,316.0     175.4      103.6      279.0        37        62
D. Hunan Province
1. Dike Rehabilitation                                231.6      124.7     356.4       27.9       15.0      42.9         35        10
3. Operation and Maintenance Equipment                  1.0       3.1        4.1        0.1        0.4        0.5        75         -
4. Resettlement                                       147.4      24.3      171.7       17.8        2.9       20.7        14         5
5. Environmental Management and Monitoring              3.7        6.9      10.5        0.4        0.8        1.3        65         -
6. Project Management                                  11.0        1.2      12.2        1.3        0.1        1.5        10
7. Institutional Development                            511        1 7       66         0.6        02         OR        25          -
Subtotal Hunan Province                                399 7      1f1 9     551 6       48 2       195        fi77        29        15
Total BASELINE COSTS                                  2,374.7    1,373.9    3,748.6     286.1      165.5      451.6        37       100
Physical Contingencies                                258.4      157.4     415.8       31.1       19.0      50.1         38        11
PrceContingencies                                      874       F71       144.'i      109         7n        170         39         4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   2,720.5    1,588.5    4,309.0     328.1      191.5      519.6        37       115
Interest Durng Construction                               -      196.9     196.9          -       23.8      23.8        100         5
Front-end Fee                                             -       174       174           -        21         21        100
Total Costs to be Financed                            2,720.5    1,802.8    4,523.3     328.1      217.4      545.5        40       120
- 51 -



Table 2-1 A: Detailed Project Cost
The People's Republic of China
Yangtze Dike Strengthening Pnoject (YOSP)                                                         (RMB Mitlion)                 (USS Millionj
Components Project Cost Summary                                                                                                                %       % Total
Foreign    Base
I oral    Fo-ein       Tot-al     I -al   ForCin    Totat   Exchange   Costr
A. Changjiang Water Resources Commission
1. River Bank Protecion                                                       346.0       283.1       629.2     41.7      34.1      75.6        45       17
2. Seepage Control for Dike Foundation                                         40.3        31.0        71.3       4.9      3.7       8.6        44         2
3. Technical Review Panel                                                       3.3         6.8        10.1       0.4      0.8       1.2        67
4. River Modeling
River Models                                                                127.2        27.2       1543      153        33       186         18        4
Subtotal Changjiang Water Resources Commission                                   516.6      348.1       864.9      62.3      41.9    104.2        40        23
B. Flood Disaster Prevention Center
1. Standards Review                                                             2 s7                    6 7       n I      0 9       o 8        60
Subtotal Flood Disaster Prevention Center                                         2.5         3.7         6.2       0.3       0.5      0.8        60         -
C. Hubei Province
1. Dike Rehabilitation
Embankment                                                                  552.0       451.6     1,003.6     66.5      54.4    120.9         45       27
Seepage Control                                                             162.7       133.1       295.7     19.6      16.0      35.6        45        8
Cross Dike Structures                                                        31.9        26.1        58.0      3.8       3.1      7.0         45        2
Other Minor CAvil Works /a                                                  10967        ARA        1 65      139       107      239          49        5
Subtotal Dike Rehabilitation                                                  856.2       699.5      1,555.8    103.2     84.3    187.4         45        42
2. Dike Safety Monitoring System                                                5.3         9.8        15.2       0.6      1.2       1.6        65
3. Operabon and MaintenanceEquipment                                           16.5        26.7        44.2       1.9      3.5       5.3        65         1
4. ReseBlement
Land Acquisibon and Other Compensabons                                      236.8        39.5       276.3     28.5       4.6     33.3         14        7
Public Faclites                                                             199.2        35.2       234.3     24.0       4.2     28.2         15        6
Resettlement Monitoring & Evaluation                                          6.7           -         6.7      0.6         -      0.8          -         -
Resettlement Administration                                                  14.8           -        14.8      1.8         -       1.8
Reseotlement Planning & Design                                                7 9          -          79       10                  1           -        -
Subtotal Resettlement                                                         465.4        74.6       540.1      56.1      9.0      65.1        14        14
5. Environmental Management and Monitoring
Environmental Management Office                                               1.4         0.6         1.8      0.2       0.1      0.2         25         -
Environmental Training                                                        0.2         0.1         0.3      0.0       0.0      0.0         25
Supervision and Monitonng                                                     1 7         0A          1        0 o1 0I    n        n 7        75
Subtotal Environmental Management and Monitoring                                2.8         0.9         3.7       0.3      0.1       0.4        25
8. Project Management
Project Administration                                                       30.0        10.0        40.0      3.6       1.2       4.8        25        1
Project Planning and Design                                                  63.4        21.1        84.5      7.6       2.5      10.2        25        2
Construction Supervision                                                     9g5          3 2        127        1 1      0.4       1 5        25         -
Subtotal Project Management                                                   102.9        34.3       137.2      12.4      4.1      16.5        25         4
7. Institutional Devetopment
Consulting Serices                                                            6.6         6.6        13.3      0.8       0.8       1.6        60         -
Study Toum & Training                                                         0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0        50
lnsStubonal Support for O&M Organizations                                     1 0         6 6         66       0 1       07       0 8         B'
Subtotal Institutional Development                                              7 6        12 3        199        0 9      1 5       2A4        62         1
Subtotal Hubei Province                                                        1,455.7      860.2      2,316.0    175.4    103.6    279.0          37       62
D. Hunan Province
1. Dike Rehabilitation
Embankment                                                                  175.5        94.5       270.0     21.1      11.4      32.5        35        7
Seepage Control                                                              44.7        24:1        68.8      5.4       2.9       8.3        35        2
Other Minor Civil Works lb                                                   114          61         17.6       1.4      n7        21         36         -
Subtotal Dike Rehabilitation                                                  231.6       124.7       356.4      27.9     15.0      42.9        35        10
3. Operaton and Maintenanre Equipment                                           1.0         3.1         4.1       0.1      0.6       0.9        75         -
4. Resettlement
Houses and Associated Facilibes                                              23.1         4.1        27.2      2.8       0.5       3.3        15        1
LandAcquisitonandOtherCompensabons                                           85.2        15.0       100.3      10.3      1.8      12.1        15        3
Public Facilites                                                             13.6         2.4        16.0      1.6       0.3       1.9        15         -
Resetlement Monitoring & Evaluation                                           2.8         0.3         3.2      0.3       0.0       0.4        10
Resettlement Administration                                                  12.7         1.4        14.1      1.5       0.2       1.7        10         -
Resettlement Planning & Design                                                99          11         111       12        01        13         10
Subtotal Reselement                                                           147.4        24.3       171.7      17.8      2.9      20.7        14         5
S. Environmental Management and Monitoring
Environmental Management Office                                               2.2         4.1         6.3      0.3       0.5       0.8        65         -
Environmental Training                                                        0.5         0.9         1.4      0.1       0.1       0.2        65
Supervision and Monitorng                                                     10          18          26 8     n1        0 2       03         65
Subtotal Environmental Management and Monitoring                                3.7         6.9        10.5       0.4      0.8       1.3        65
6. Project Management
Project Administration                                                        2.0         0.2         2.2      0.2       0.0       0.3        10
Projed Ptanning and Design                                                    7.2         0.8         8.0       0.9      0.1       1.0        10
Construction Supenvision                                                      18          07          20       02        00        02         10
Subtotal Project Management                                                    11.0         1.2        12.2       1.3      0.1       1.5        10
7. Institutional Development
Consultng Services                                                            5.0         1.7         6.6      0.6       0.2       0.6        25
Study Tours & Training                                                        00          00          0 0      0 0       0 0       0 0        10
Subtotal Institutional Development                                              5.0         1 7         6.6       0.6f     0 2       0 8        25
Subtotal Hunan Province                                                          3997       1fi19       Sf1f       482       195      677         91        16
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                            2,374.7     1,373.9     3,748.6    266.1    165.5    451.6         37       100
Physical Contingendes                                                         258.4       157.4       415.8      31.1     19.0      50.1        38        11
Price ConOngencies                                                             874         571        1445       10.9       70      179         39         4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                             2,720.5     1,588.5     4,309.0  . 328.1    191.5    519.6         37       115
Interest During Construcion                                                       -       196.9       196.9         -     23.8      23.8       100         5
Commitment Charges                                                                -        174         174          -      21        21        100
Total Costs to be Financed                                                      2,720.5     1,802.8    4,523.3    328.1    217.4    545.5          40       120
- 52 -



Table 2-1 B: Detailed Project Base Cost by Year
The People s Republic of Chr,a
Yarngtze Dike Strengthwirng Project (YDSP)
Project Components by Year -BEass Costs                                       Baase Cost iRM B Million)                           Base Cost (US S Milli onl
2000  2001  2002    2003    7004    ~~~~Total    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004   Total
A Changjiang Water Resources Commission
1. Rher BankPnoterdon                                              10.5    21R6.      266.0    94.3    41 8     629.2     1.3   26.1    32.0    11 4      5.0   75.8
2.5Seepage Controlbfor Dike Foundafon                                 -      20.1      20.8   15.2   15.2        71.m3      -      2.4     2.5     1.8    1.8   a86
3. Technical Review Panel                                             -       2.5       2.5    2.5      2.5      10.1       -     0.3      0.3    0.3    0.3       1 2
4. River Modeling
River Models                                                        -      64.3      70.5    19.5       -     154,3             7 77     8.5    2 3       -    18 6
Subtotal ChangjiangWakter Resources Commission                       10.5     303.5     359.8  131.5   59.6       864.9     1.3    36.6   43.3    15.8    7.2   104 2
B. Flood Disaster Prevention CeDnterr
1. Standards Review                                                   -       2.5       2,9     0.8       -       5.2       -     0.3     0.4     0.1             0 8
Subtotal Flood  imsate rPrevention Center                               -       2.5       2.9    0.8        -       8.2       -     0.3    0.4      0.1       -     0.8
C. Hubei Provbce
1. Dike Rehabilitation
Embankment                                                          -     250.9    250.9  250.9  250.9   1,003.6          -     30.2   30 2    30 2    30.2  120.9
Seepage Control                                                            73.9      73.9   73.9   73.9       295.7       -     8.9     8 9     8.9    8.9   35.6
Cross D,ke Structures                                               -      23.2      17.4   17.4        -      58.0       -      2.8    2.1      2.1      -     7.0
O6ler Minor Civil Works la-                                                   -       3.     639 113          185         -       -      0       77      58    29
Subtotal Dike Rehabilitahon                                           -     348.0    345.5  406.1   456.1   1,555.8         -    41.9    41.6   48 9    55.0  187.4
2. Dike Safety MonitornagSystem                                       -       7.7       7.5       -       -      15.2       -      0.9    0.9       -       -     1.8
3. Operation and Maintenance Equipment                                                 22.1    22.1              414.2          -         2.7     2 7       -     5.3
4. Resetbement
Land Acquisition and Other Compensations                            -      55.3     165.8   55.3        -     276.3             6 67    20.0    6.7       -    33.3
Public Facilities                                                          46.9     140.6   46.9              234.3             5.6   16.9      5.6            28.2
Resetteieent Monitordng &Evaluation                               0.8       1.3       2.9    1.       0.6       6.7     0.1     0.2    0.4      0.2    0.1    0.8
Resettlement Administrafion                                       2.4       3.0       3.8    3.0      2.6      14.8     0.3      0.4    0.5     0.4    0.3      1 8
Resetlernent PlaDnnirng & Design                                  3.1        .                                   .9      05      05       -        -      -      1.0
Subtotal Resrttlenmnt                                               6.9     110.4    313.1   106.5      3.2     540.1     0.8    13.3    37 7    12.8    0.4   65.1
S. Environmnbntl Management and Monitoring
EnvronmenbalMana,qement Office                                      -       0.9       0.3    0.3    0.3         1.8       -      0.1     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.2
EnvinonnenSta Trainir,qg                                                    0.2       0.2       -       -       0.3       -      0.0    0.0       -       -     0.0
Supervision and Monoriton,g                                                 0.4       0.4     0.4    0.4         1 6      -      0.0     0.0     0 0     0.      0 2
Subtotal Envinonmental Managemrnt and Moitoring                       -       1.4       0.9    0.7      0.7       3.7       -     0e2     0.1     0 1     e1      0 4
S. Project Management
Project Admiristratbon                                            3.0      10.5       9.5     9.5     7.6      40.0     0.4      1.3    1.1      1.1    0.9     4.8
Project Plannin and Design                                       33.8      33.8      16.9                      84.5     4.1      4.1     2.0                    10.2
Construction Supervision                                          0 6       3.2       3.2    3.2      2.5      12.7     0.1     0.4     0 4     0.4     0 3     1.5
Subtotal ProjecttManagement                                        37.4      47.5      29.5    12.6   10.1      137 2     4.5     5.7      3 6     1.5     1.2   16.5
7. Inshbrhonr  Dev lopnment
Consulitng Services                                                 -       3.3       3.3    3.3      3.3      133         -     04      04      04      04      1.6
Stud,h Tours & Trining                                                      0.0       0.0    0.0      o 0       0.0              o 0     0 0     0.0     0.0     0 0
lrostbtutnal Support forO&M Orgqanizafons                           -       1.7_      1.7     1.7    1,7        6.6       -      0.2     0 2     0.2     0.2    0.8
Subtotal Institutional Devetlopment                                   -       5.0       5.0    SO0      5.0       19.9      -      0.6    0.6      0 6     0.6     2 4
Subtotal Hubr,i Province                                             44.3    520.1      723.6  553.0  475.1   2,316.0       5.3    62.7    87.2   66.6   57.2  279.0
iX Hunan Province
t. Dike Rehabilitation
Embankment                                                          -      28.7     209 8    31.5       -     270 0       -      3.5   25.3      3.8            32.5
Seepage Control                                                             6.2      38.2   24.4               8 8.8      -      0.7     4.6     2.9             8.3
Other MinorCivil Works/lb-                                                    -       14     1.       2.       176                       02       .7      3      21
SubtotalDike Rehabilitation                                           -      34.9    249.4   69.8       2.4     356.4              4 42    30e0    8.4     0.3   42.9
3. Operabon and Maintenance Equipment                                                   4.1       -       -       4.1       -        -     0.5       -       -    O.S
4. Resotfiament
Houses arnd Associated Facilities                                 8.2      13.6       5.4                      27.2      1.0     1 6     0.7       -      -      3.3
Land Acqbsiton and Other Compemsatons                            25.1      25.1      25.1   25.1        -     100.3     3.0      3.0     3.0     3 0      -     12 1
Public Facilibes                                                  4.0       4.0       4.0     4.0       -      16.0      0.5     0.5     0 5     O.S             1.9
Resetfement Monitoring &Evaluation                                  -       0.9       0.9    0.6      0.6       3.2       -      0.1     0.1     0 1     0.1     0 4
Resettlement Administration                                       4.1       2.8       2.8     2.5     1.9       14.1     0.5     0.3     0.3    0.3      0 2     1.7
Reset3ernent Planning &Design                                     6.8       2.2       2.2                      11.1     0.8      0.3     0.3       -      -      1 3
SubtotalResefttiment                                               47.9      48.6      40.5   32.2    2.5       171.7      5.6     S 9     4 9     3.9     0 3    20.7
5. Environmntal ManagenrBnt and Monitoring
Environmental Managemfent Office                                    -       1.6       1.6    1.6      1.6       6.3              0.2    0.2      0.2     0 2     0.8
Envfronmental Training                                              -       0.3       0.3    0.3    0.3          1. A            0.0     0 0     0.0     0 0     0.2
Supervisinand Monitorng                                             -       0.7       0,7    0.7      0.7        2.8       -     0.1     0 1     0.1     0.1    0.3
SubtotalEnvinonmentatManagement and Monitoring                        -       2.6       2.6    2.6      2.6       10.5      -      0.3    0.3      0.3     0.3    1.3
S. Project Managenent
Project Admninistration                                           0.7       0.7       0.3    0.3      0.3       2.2      0.1    0.1      0.0     0 a     0.0    0.3
Project Plamning and Design                                       4.8       1.1       0.8    0.7      0.7       8.0      0.6     0.1     0.1    0.1      e1      1.0
Constocbon Supervisin                                             0.4       0,4       0.4    0.4      0.4       2.0      0.0     0 0     0.0    0.0      0 0     02.2
SubtotalProject Management                                          5.9       2.2       1.4     1.3     1.3       12.2     0.7     0 3     0.2     0 2     0.2     1.5
7. Institutional Devralop-rint
Consutnrg Services                                                  -       1.7       1.7     1.7     1.7       6.6              0 2     0.2     0.2    0.2      0.8
Stur.,hTours &Tnaining                                              -       0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0        0 0      -      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0 0
Subtolal Institutional i7evelopment                                   -       1.7       1.7     1.7     1.7        6.6             0.2     0.2     0.2     0.2    0.6
Subtotal Hunan Pronzvn                                               53.8      90.1     299.7  107.4    10.6    581.6        6.5   l0.8    36.1    12 9      1 3    67.7
TotalBASEUNE COSTS                                                   108.6    916.1   1,38S.9  792.8  545.2   3.748.6    13.1   110.4   167.0   95-S   r6S.7  451 6
Physical Contirngencies                                             9.7     107.8     156.5   84.2    57.5      415.8      1.2    13.0    18 9    10.1     6.9   50.1
Price Contingencies
Inflation
LoJcal                                                            -       3.1      25.0   30.1    29.3        87.4      -      0.4     3.0    3.6      3.5   10.5
Foreign                                                           -       2.9       15.0   18.5   21.9       58.2        -     0.3     1.8    2.2      2.6     7 0
Subtotal Inflation                                                  -       6.0      39.9    48.6   51.1      145.7       -      0.7     4.8    S 9      6.2   17.5
Devalualon                                                          -       -1.1      -1.9    0.3     1.6       -1.1      -      0.2    0.4   -0.1    -0.2    0.3
Subtotal Price Con5nrgencies                                          -       4.9      36.0   48.9   52.7        144.5       -     0.9    5.       S 8     S.9   179.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                  118.3   1,028.8   1.560.5   925.9   655.5   4,309.0    14.3   124.3  191.1   111.5   78 6   519 6
- 53 -



Table 2-1 C: Detailed Project Cost including Contingencies by Year
The People's Republic of China
Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project (YDSP)
Project Components by Year,- Totals Including Contingencies       Totals IncIudino Contineencies IRMB Milisol             Totals Including Contingencies (USS Millioni
2000     2001       2002      2003    2004      Total     2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    Total
A. Changjiang Water Resources Commission
1. RiverBank Protection                                         12.5      261.2      327.2   119.5    54.6       775.1      1.5    31.6    39.6    14.4       6.5    93.6
2. Seepage Control for Dike Foundation                             -       22.2       23.5    17.7    18.2        81.5        -     2.7      2.8      2.1     2.2      9.8
3. Technical Review Panel                                                   2.7        2.7      2.8     2.9       11.1        -      0.3     0.3      0.3     0.3      1.3
4. River Modeling
River Models                                                     -       693        75.6    21.6               16665        -     8,4      9.1      206       -    20.1
Subtotal ChangjiangWaterResources Commission                       12.5     355.4      429.0   161.6    75.7    1,034.2       1.5    42.9    51.9    19.4        9.1   124.t
B. Flood Disaster Prevention Center
1. Standards Review                                                -        268        31       09        -        6.5        -     0 3      0.4      01        -      0.8
Subtotal Flood Disaster Pevention Center                              -       2.6        3.1      0.9        -       0.5        -      0.3     0.4      0.1       -      0.8
C. Hubei Province
1. Dike Rehabilitation
Embankment                                                              277.4      282.9   291.4   300.2    1,151.9              33.5    34.2    35.1    30.0   13808
Seepage Control                                                          81.7       83.4    05.9    88.4       339.4        -      99     10.1    10.3    10.6    40.9
Cross Dike Structures                                                    25.6       19.6    20.2        -       65.4        -     3.1      2.4      2.4       -      7.9
Other Minor Civil Works la                                                           3.7    74.2   157.1       235.0        -        -     0.4     .89    1808    28.2
Subtotal Dike Rehabilitation                                       -      384.7      389.0   471.7   545.7    1,791.7         -    46.5    47.1    56.8    65.4   215.8
2. Dike Safety Monitoring System                                            81         8.1        -       -       16.2        -      1.0     1.0        -       -      2.0
3. Operation and Maintenance Equipment                                        -       22.6    23.3        -       45.9                 -     2.7      2.8       -      5.5
4. Resettlement
Land Acquisition and Other Compensations                         -       61.1      187.0    64.2        -      312.2        -     7.4    22.6       7.7       -    37.7
Public Facilites                                                 -       51.8      158.6    54.4        -      264.8        -     6.3    19.2       6.6       -    32.0
Resedlement Monitoring & Evaluation                            0.6        1.5        3.3     1.6      0.7        7.6      0.1     0.2      0.4      0.2     0.1      0.9
Resettlement Administration                                    2.0        3.3        4.3     3.5      3.1       166       0.3     0.4      0.5      0.4     0.4      2.0
Resettlement Planning & Design                                 4.3        4.3          -       -        -        867      0.5      05        -        -       -      1.0
Subtotal Resettlement                                             7.5     122.1      353.1   123.7      3.8      610.2      0.9    14.7    42.7    14.9       0.5    737
S. Environmental Management and Monitoring
Environmental Management Offnce                                          o0.         0.3      0.3     0.3        1.9        -     0.1      0.0      5.0     0.0      0.2
Environmental Training                                                    0.2        0.2       -                 0.3        -     0.0      0.0        -       -      0.0
Supervision and Monitoring                                                0.4        0.4     0.4      0.4        1.7              0.0      0.1      01      0.1      0.2
Subtotal Environmental Management and Monitoring                   -        1.5        0.9      0.8     0.8        4.0        -      0.2     0.1      0.1     0.1      0.5
S. Project Management
ProjectAdministration                                          3.1       11.1       10.2    10.5      8.6       43.5      0.4      1.3     1.2      1.3     1.0      5.2
Project Planning and Design                                   35.5       35.5       17.8        -       -       88.8      4.3     4.3      2.1        -       -    10.7
Construction Supervision                                       0,7        3.4        34      3.5      2.9       1309     0.1      0.4      04       0.4     0.3      1 7
Subtotal ProjectManagement                                      39.3       50.0       31.4    14.0    11.5       146.2      4.7     6.0      3.8      1.7      14     17.6
7. Institutional Development
Consulting Services                                              -        3.5        3.6      3.7     3.8       14.5        -     0.4      0.4      0.4     0.5      1.8
Study Tours & Training                                                    0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0        0.0              0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Institutional Support lor O&M Organizations                      -        1.8        1.8  1_          1 9        7.3        -     02       0.2      0.2     0.2      0 9
Subtotal Institutional Development                                  -       53         5 4      5.5     5,7       21 8        -      06      0.6      0 7     0.7    2.6
Subtotal Hubei Province                                           46.8      571.6      811.0   639.0   567.5    2,636.0    506    69.1    98.0    76.9    68.0   317.7
D. Hunan Province
1. Dike Rehabilitation
Embankment                                                       -       31.7      236.6    36.6        -      304.9        -     3.8    28.6       4.4       -    36.8
Seepage Control                                                           6 0.9     43.1    28.3        -       78.2        -     0.8      5.2      3.4       -      9.4
Other Minor Civil Works /b                                                           1.5    16.0      2.0       20.4                -      0.2      1.9     0.3      2.5
Subtotal Dike Rehabilitation                                       -       386       281.2    80.9      2.9      403.6        -      4.7    34.0      9.7     0.3    48.7
3. Operation and Maintenance Equipment                                        -        4.4        -       -        4.4                 -     0.5        -       -      0.5
4. Resettlement
Houses and Associated Facilities                               9.0       15.0        6.1                        30.2      1.1     1.8      0.7                       3.6
Land Acquisition and Other Compensations                      27.6       27.7       28.3    29.1               112.7      3.3      3.3     3.4      3.5             13.6
Public Facilities                                              4.4        4.4        4.5      4.6               18.0      0.5     0.5      0.5      0.6       -      2.2
Resettlement Monitoring & Evaluation                             -        1.0        1.1      0.7     0.8        3.6        -     0.1      0         1 0.1  0.       0.4
ReseotlementAdministration                                     4.5        3.1        3.2      2.9     2.3       15.9      0.5      04      0.4      0.3     0.3      1.9
ResettlementPlanning& Design                                   73         24         2,5       -        -       122       0.9      03      03         -       -      1.5
Subtotal Resettlement                                           52.7       53.8       45.6    37.4      3.0      192.5      6.3      6.5     5.5      4.5      0.4    23.2
S. Environmental Management and Monitoring
Environmental Management Office                                  -        1.7        1.7      1.8     1.8        7.0        -      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.8
Environmental Training                                           -        0.4        0.4      0.4     0.4        1.5        -      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.2
Supervision and Monitoring                                       -        0.7        08       08      08         31         -     01       01       01      01       0.4
Subtotal Environmental Managementand Monitoring                             2.8        2.8      2.9     3.0       11.6        -      03      0.3      0.4      0.4     1.4
6, Project Management
Project Administration                                         0.8        0.8        0.3      0.3     0.3        2.4      0.1     0.1      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.3
Project Planning and Design                                    5.0        1.1        0.8      0.7     0.7        8.4      0.6     0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1      1.0
Construction Supervision                                       0.4        0.4        0.4      0.4     05        22       0.1      01      0.1      0.1     0.1      0.3
Subtotal Project Management                                       6.2       2.3        1.5      1.4      1.5      12.9      0.7      0.3     0.2      0.2      0.2     1.6
7. Institutional Development
Consulting Services                                              -        1.8        1.8      1.8     1.0        7.3        -      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.9
Study Tours & Training                                                    0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0        0.0        -      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Subtotal Institutional Development                                  -       15         I8       1 8     1 9        7 3        -      02      0 2      0.2      0,2     0 9
Subtotal Hunan Province                                           58.9       992       3374    1245      123       6323       71      120     40.8    150        1 5    763
Total PROJECT COSTS                                               118.3    1,028.8    1,580.5   925.9   655.5    4,309.0    14.3   124.3   191.1   111.5    78.6   519.6
- 54-



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
CHINA: Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project
Economic Analysis (Table 1 below)
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present Value of Flows                       Fiscal Impact
;  -           ~~~~Economnic    Finaneial Ahtalys   E--   
.COnOmIC    I Financial                Taxes           Subsidies
Benefits:                     16.81              0.40                                 16.41
in Yuan Billion
Costs:                         4.84              4.83               0.11               0.12
In Yuan Billion
Net Benefits:                 11.97              -4.43              0.11              16.53
In Yuan Billion
IRR:                         49.2%               N/A
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The economic costs for the Project were derived from the financial costs by adjusting for taxes, duties, and
interest during construction and the shadow pricing of foreign exchange at Yuan 8.3 = US$1. All
discounted investment costs (including resettlement costs) include physical contingencies and incremental
0 & M costs if there are any. Measured economic benefits derive from: (i) flood alleviation; (ii)
incremental cost changes for flood fighting; and (iii) incremental cost changes in the use of detention
basins. The largest benefits are the flood alleviation benefits which will be generated because the
rehabilitated dikes have less likelihood of breaching. These benefits form 85% of the total. The other
benefits are reductions in: (i) flood fighting costs; and (ii) the costs of using the detention basins. The flood
fighting benefits are due to less requirements in event of a flood to undertake special emergency measures
to prevent breaching of the dikes. As a result of stronger dikes they are able to resist higher flood
frequencies and the use of detention basins is reduced. The total discounted benefits are Yuan 16.8 billion
and the NPV is Yuan 12.0 billion. Details are given in Table 2 below. Overall the Project has an EIRR of
about 49% and a B/C ratio of 3.5 (see Table 2 below). Between the two provinces Hubei clearly has the
largest benefits from the Project. In the 1998 flood, Hubei, which has the longest river length, had the
greatest damage.
- 55 -



Table 2: Summary of Economic Analysis Results
Costs
Incremental Capital Cost                           2.87             1.98             4.85
Benefits
Flood Alleviation                                 10.39            4.22             14.61
Reduction in 0 & M                                 0               0.21             0.21
Reduction Flood Fighting Cost                     0.02             0.14             0.16
Reduction in Land Drainage damage                  0                0                0
Reduction in Detention Basin Costs                1.82              0               1.82
Total                          12.23            4.57             16.80
NPV                            9.36             2.59             11.96
- 56 -



Main Assumptions:
A.    INTRODUCTION
The primary aim of this Project is to reduce flood losses in the future as compared to those that would
occur if nothing was done. Thus, the primary category of benefits to be evaluated is the expected value of
the reduction of flood losses in future years. Losses in the past have been substantial; the 1954 flood
affected nearly 19 million people, of which more than 30,000 died; 4.3 million houses were destroyed and
more than 200,000 hectares of farm land were flooded. The 1998 flood involved, in some instances, an
even higher water level and resulted in a loss of nearly US$4 billion in Hunan and US$6 billion in Hubei.
The Yangtze valley was heavily settled between the 9th and 13th centuries when an agricultural shift from
dry land farming in the north to paddy production in the south, accompanied by a shift in the distribution of
population, occurred. Over these four centuries, living standards rose whilst the population doubled. The
Project largely involves the rehabilitation or reconstruction of existing main dikes, some of which date from
the 15th Century with subsequent reconstruction, notably after the 1954 flood. The existing dikes offer a
low design standard of protection, many only giving a designed standard of protection against floods of less
than a return period of 15 years. In addition, they are generally in a poor condition with many defects such
as cracks, piping, a high phreatic line and bank failure. In 1998, widespread breaching of the dikes was
only minimized by a massive flood fighting effort at a substantial cost.
A second component of the comprehensive flood action plan that is being funded is improvements to the
flood warning system. Because flooding is typically meters deep if it occurs, the main objectives of the
flood waming system are, firstly, to improve management of flood flows through the use of detention
basins. Thus, it is claimed that, for example, the 15 year flood can, through management, be made to have
the effect of a 7.5 year event. The second purpose of the flood warning system is to reduce the risk to life
rather than to reduce property losses. With the depths of flooding involved, flood proofing will not
generally be feasible and a significant number of the buildings are likely to be destroyed by a flood.
Therefore, the only contribution flood warning can make in this instance to reducing flood losses would be
by the evacuation of livestock and small movable private property. As this should be given lower priority
than the evacuation of people, this possible contribution has been ignored.
Flooding poses a considerable risk to life because of the depth of flooding and the probable collapse of
some buildings. It is not considered that it would be helpful to seek to evaluate the number of lives that the
proposed scheme will save and methods of predicting the number of lives that will be lost in a flood are also
in their infancy. The flood action plan for the Yangtze river is a program of different actions including
afforestation and flood warning as well dike strengthening and raising; it is not within the scope of this
analysis to attempt to assess whether the program as a whole is the best option or the operational strategy
in total is the best strategy. The main option which is not included as a component of the overall strategy is
managed retreat of the defense line. Because wetlands are valuable environmental assets, it is often
appropriate to consider retreating the defense line in order to open up the river. The area between the
retreated defense line and the river may then be allowed to revert to a natural wetland or used for pasture.
At present, this is probably not a viable option in the Yangtze river basin for several reasons. Firstly, the
availability of arable land per capita is very low in China. This relative scarcity of arable land makes the
potential abandonment of fertile arable land unlikely to be an appropriate strategy at present. Since arable
land is considerably more productive than livestock farming, conversion of arable land to livestock use is
also unlikely to be appropriate. Secondly, retreating the defenses would involve resettlement of the
populations currently inhabiting that land and because of its productivity, the area is one of most densely
populated areas of China. Thirdly, construction of a new dike system on a new line is likely to be more
- 57 -



expensive than renovating the existing system although the costs of river training may be reduced. In the
long run, it is probable that managed retreat will become a viable option as population pressures ease and
living standards rise further; and so current actions should bear this in mind.
It is common to compare different design standards of protection and this comparison may seek to
determine the optimum standard of protection. In this case, the agreed Yangtze Basin Flood Control
Master Plan defines the appropriate design standard of protection as being to protect against the 1954 flood
level. The renovated dikes are designed to achieve this standard when operated in conjunction with the
other elements of the flood action plan. There are considerable uncertainties about the hydrology and the
hydraulics of the Yangtze basin and it is not considered realistic to attempt to assess what it is the optimum
standard of protection. Such analysis would be complicated because when a flood above the design
standard is expected, the response is to undertake emergency works to seek to raise the crest height of the
dike so as to allow the extreme flood to be passed safely. Therefore, the assessment of the design standard
of protection is perhaps better conceived of as a choice between raising the dike to a specific height now or
through temporary emergency works in the event of an extreme event. The determination of the crest width
to adopt in part is influenced by such a consideration. Secondly, when a very extreme event occurs, the
likely response is to allow some areas to breach or overtop in order to provide additional flood storage
areas in order to protect other areas. The categorization of dikes into classes 1 to 5, with different crest
widths and freeboards, reflects such an approach. The implication for a benefit-cost analysis is thus that in
order to assess the benefits of raising a dike protecting one area of great economic importance, the losses
from a flood in another area from such an event need to be assessed. To do this would require detailed
modeling of the developing flood; a problem complicated by the different possible timings of floods from
the main stem and the tributaries.
Overall, therefore, the dike raising project fits into a broader management strategy in which, as a flood
develops, the sequence of actions would be:
*   reservoir retention;
*   the use of the detention basins;
*   emergency dike raising; and
*   breaching of dikes in the lowest priority areas to create emergency detention basins
The last strategy would be a desperate last resort and is not formally contemplated. The application of this
management strategy is complicated by the need to manage flows not just on the main stem of the Yangtze
but also on its tributaries so that the peak flood flows do not coincide. A benefit-cost analysis can identify
the best of the options that compare. In this analysis, a single project option, the core of which is dike
strengthening and raising, was assessed for the two Provinces.  This option in turn is part of a
comprehensive flood action plan for the Yangtze river that includes the use of re-afforestation, flood
storage reservoirs and flood detention basins. The benefit-cost analysis of the Project for each Province is
calculated as the marginal benefits and costs of the Project assuming that the other components of the
action plan are undertaken. In the case of the Three Gorges Project (TGP), these benefits are phased in
with the completion of TGP.
B.    BENEFITS
Six possible strands of benefits have been identified:
*   reductions in flood losses both from reduced risk of dikes overtopping and breaching;
*   reductions in the probability of using the detention basins;
- 58 -



*   a potential reduction in annual Operation and Maintenance costs;
*   a reduction in the costs of emergency works during a flood;
*   reduced disruption to navigation; and
*   land drainage benefits.
B-1:  Reduction in flood losses
The primary benefits of flood alleviation schemes are given by the losses that would otherwise occur. The
National Codes (SL 72-94 and SL 206-98) require surveys to be undertaken after each flood to determine
the flood losses. Thus, an extensive data base of flood losses has been built-up, although the sampling
strategy adopted was weak in one instance and some of the derived values were for financial rather than
economic losses. In general, the raw data was not available and the aggregated loss data has generally been
used in the benefit-cost analyses prepared for each of the three Provinces. Where possible and where
appropriate, loss data has been developed instead from basic principles. Usually the method used to assess
the benefit of flood alleviation is to determine the loss-probability curves for the baseline and do something
options, the losses from floods being plotted against the exceedance probabilities of those floods, and then
the area between the two curves is calculated. This area is the reduction in the expected annual average
flood loss. For this Project, the area between the curves has to be weighted by the probabilities that the
embankments will not be breached. For example, if the probability that the existing dike will fail when a
flood of a 10 year return period occurs is 0.8 and the probability that the reinforced dike will fail is only
0.01 then the incremental benefit is given by 0.79 times the difference in the loss experienced from a flood
with a return period of 10 years and no flood protection at all.
Reductions in failure probabilities    A primary purpose of the Project is to reduce the probability of a
breach in the embankments from a flood event which will not overtop the embankment. Therefore, a
critical parameter is the probability of breaching with and without the Project for different return period
floods. The use of failure probabilities introduces a way of unifying three different aspects:
*   the probability of an embankment failing through piping, sand boiling or another problem
from an event below the design standard of protection;
*   the probability of the embankment being overtopped; and
*   the likelihood of success of emergency flood fighting measures both to reinforce weak
points to prevent failure below the design standard of protection and also in raising the
crest level to protect against floods greater than the design standard of protection.
Thus, it does not matter why the embankment fails as a result of a flood of some return period, and the
usual approach of deriving a loss-probability curve can be defined as the simple case where the probability
of failure for a flood of a given return period is zero for events below the design standard of protection and
one for events greater than that design standard of protection. Although there is a theory available as the
basis for assessing the probability that a dike will breach, there is an absence of an empirical data which
will allow the prediction of breach probabilities as a function of the features of the soil, dike and flood.
Therefore, the design engineers in each of the two Provinces were asked to estimate the failure probability
of the present embankments and those as designed in the Project. Moreover, sensitivity analysis was used
to test the effect of varying the breach probabilities. A typical failure probability for dikes that was
assumed for Wuhan is shown below in Table 3.
- 59 -



Table 3: Failure Probabilities for the Dikes in Wuhan Municipality
Flood                 Pre-Project                                    With Project
Probabi
lities__ _ _ _                             _ _
With    Existing   Existing    Existing    Strengthened  Strengthened  Strengthened  Strengthened
existing    dike +  dike +    dike + TGP    and raised    and raised    and raised    and raised
dikes   detention    TGP    + detention    dike        dike +     dike + TGP   dike + TGP +
basin               basin                   detention                 detention
basins                   basins
1I0    0                     0          0           0                  0            0            0
2         0.001         0         0           0           0            0            0            0
5         0o015         0         0           0         0.01           0            0            0
10         0.40       0.03    0.005          0          0.20        0.001           0            0
20         0.60       0.40     0.10           0         0.30         0.10         0.05           0
50         0.90       0.60     0.30        0.10         0.65         0.40         0.20         0.02
loo        1.00       0.80     0.65        0.30         1.00         0.70         0.50         0.10
200        1.00       1.00     0.85        0.70         1.oo         1.00         0.70         0.65
500        I00        I.0      1.00        1.00         1.00         I.00         I.00 
1000       1.00       1.00      1.00       1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00
Reduced risk of overtopping        This is normally a critical parameter but as just described, it is treated in
the integrated methodology as any event for which the probability of failure is one. This is to some extent a
simplification because the possibility of a partial failure is omitted. Thus, it is assumed that either the
whole area which would be flooded by some event is flooded or it is not flooded at all: any breach or
overtopping being assumed to flood the area, the extent of this area depending only on the return period of
the event. In practice, for some structures, overtopping will not cause complete failure of the structure and
the volume of water that overtops the structure will be insufficient to flood the entire area.
Loss-probability curves       The losses from a particular flood event depend upon the depth and extent of
flooding. Therefore, the gradient of the loss-probability curve, the plot of the monetary value of the losses
from different floods against the exceedance probabilities of those floods, varies according to the change in
the number of properties, or the area flooded, and the change in the depth of flooding in those properties or
areas. The Yangtze flood plain is generally a flat area contained within a rim of hills and the flat area is
low in relation to the normal water level of the river. If a flood occurs then commonly flooding is several
meters deep in the affected area; once a building has been flooded to a few meters depth of flooding, there
is little more damage left to do (Figure 1 below). Hydraulic models giving the flood depth in different areas
were not available but some estimates of the flood extent for different return periods were available, as
were some limited results from more detailed studies. Therefore, loss-probability curves had to be
estimated based upon these extent-probability curves (see Table 4 below). Because of the reasons just
given, these curves are considered to be a reasonable approximation to the loss-probability curve. An area
of particular uncertainty is the success rate of bank protection works.
-60 -



Table 4: Typical Loss Probability Curve (Estimated)
Return period           Loss (% of maximum loss value)
1                              6
2                              9
5                             25
10                             33
20                             56
50                             61
100                            68
200                            100
B-2:  Reductions in flood fighting costs
Flood fighting costs may be considered as part of the O&M costs because they are, in part, determined by
the standard of O&M undertaken. Flood fighting costs are likely to be higher with poorly maintained dikes
than with those dikes for which defects are identified and repaired during routine maintenance. In some
cases, details of flood fighting and other costs were available for past floods. An escalating response model
was used in the analysis as follows:
*  Dike watching   Almost any flood causes some costs as resources and personnel are
mobilized and the condition of the dikes is monitored. Some element of material stock
piling may also be involved. These costs are however relatively small.
*   Emergency works As a flood develops and threatens to become more severe, works will
be undertaken to reinforce weak points, particularly those points where a breach threatens.
The cost of such works is considerably higher than that of dike watching. The poorer the
dike is maintained, then the more likely are such costs to be incurred and the greater will
be those costs.
*  Dike reinforcement  If the dike has not failed through breaching, and the flood continues
to raise and to threaten to overtop the dike, temporary works are likely to be undertaken to
try to raise the dike crest through sandbagging or other means. At this point, a substantial
proportion of the local inhabitants, as well as the emergency services and military
personnel are likely to be involved. The real cost of this level of response is typically very
high.
*   Repair and closure works If a dike breaches an emergency closure of the breach will be
attempted. In Jiangxi Province, such action costed Yuan 12 million in 1998. Once the
flood has receded, a permanent repair will be made; in the Jiangxi case, these works costed
another Yuan 100 million.
*   Evacuation Where the population of a threatened area must be evacuated, then there can
be substantial costs for transportation, providing temporary shelter and health care.
*   Relief costs  Relief payments and compensation for losses should not be included in the
benefit assessment because to do so would double count losses. If a farmer loses property
valued at Yuan 1000 and the government makes relief payments to him of Yuan 300, the
total economic loss remains at Yuan 1000 but now the farmer carries Yuan 700 of that
loss and the government Yuan 300.
B-3:  Operation of detention basins
In some Provinces, there are detention basins which would be used in the event of the more extreme floods.
However, the use of the detention basins involves a considerable cost in terms of flood losses to the land
- 61 -



uses inside those basins and also the cost of evacuating the population living within those detention basins.
Where detention basins are required to be used, these costs will necessarily be incurred. In Hubei Province,
these costs were estimated to amount to Yuan 1200 per capita.
B-4:  Reductions in disruption to navigation
When the water level exceeds a critical level, the flood fighting headquarters in Beijing may order the
suspension of shipping movements so as to eliminate the risk of wash damage to the embankments. In
1998, ship movements were stopped for one month. Raising the dikes will potentially reduce the
probability and duration of such disruptions. The depth of the main channel in Hunan, for example,
averages 25 meters and ranges up to 61 meters in maximum depth. In low flow periods, when the
minimum depth in Hunan Province falls to 4 meters, there are occasional and short periods when the depth
of water in some parts of the main channel results in the suspension of traffic. But given the width of the
river, there are anticipated to be no adverse changes to navigation.
B-5:  Inland flooding
It is understood that at present the pumping of local rainfall from the areas behind the dikes is suspended
during major floods because of fears that the increased flow in the main river would further increase the
risk of dike failure. Raising and heightening the dikes will make pumping possible during major floods and
result, firstly, in reductions in localized flooding behind the dike and secondly enable the water table to
maintained at the depths below ground level desirable for maximum crop yield for areas of dry land
farming. However, no estimates of such benefits have been obtained. Conversely, any such localized
flooding as a result of local rainfall will reduce the benefits of the main dike raising and strengthening
project because such flooding will occur irrespective of whether the Project is undertaken. The code
standard for pumping capacity is to remove all excess water within 3 days of the occurrence, variously, of
the 10 year or 20 year rainfall event. In the absence of other information, both possibilities have been
omitted from the analysis.
B-6:   Risk to life and health
All engineers know that the real reason why flood alleviation schemes are undertaken is to reduce the risk
to people's lives. However, they are then forced to justify the proposed Project in economic terms on an
entirely different basis: the reductions in the losses to buildings, their contents and to agriculture. In this
instance, the historic record demonstrates that the potential loss of life is very large indeed. It is not
however recommended that 'values of life' should be introduced into the benefit-cost analysis of flood
alleviation projects. Rather the relative degree of risk should be assessed, although this cannot yet be done
with any formal precision. Floods also cause health damage, stress and anxiety; they disrupt life and
kinship relations especially when people are forced to leave home. Survey data for the UK shows that
40-70% of flooded households report that the health of at least one family member is adversely affected by
a flood and floods in the UK are trivial compared to those in China. There is some evidence to show that
children, the elderly and female headed households are particularly adversely affected by flooding. UK
survey data shows that to the households affected, these other affects are frequently regarded as more
severe than the damages to their home and replaceable property. A number of snail and disease bome
diseases are endemic in the two Provinces and both the snails and insects breed in still waters. Secondly,
there will no local supplies of potable water in the flooded areas. Therefore, there is a significant risk of
disease once polder areas have been flooded. After the 1998 flood, the Ministry of Health carried out a
special program to combat the disease vectors and a subsequent survey found that there had been no
significant increase in rates of the different diseases in areas where the specified control measures were
- 62 -



implemented. Conversely, in 1954 there were many deaths after the flood from epidemic diseases across a
large area. In principle, therefore, the costs of mounting such a special health program is a cost that should
be added to the losses resulting from flooding. Specific works to reduce the risks of snails entering the
polders through the water gates have been included in the Project's cost in some cases.
B-7:  Losses in urban areas
China has collected what are, in many cases, excellent, detailed surveys of flood losses in past floods. The
National Codes then require these surveys of losses in past floods to be used to estimate the losses from
future floods. These surveys have calculated flood losses in terms of the proportion of the total values of
different classes of assets at risk and/or in a loss per mu (rural areas) and a loss per capita (urban areas).
This proportional loss approach is consistent with the approach adopted in, for instance, the USA, Japan
and Germany. But estimating future flood losses on the basis of the aggregated results from surveys of
past flood losses does mean that there are no depth-damage curves which express the losses to particular
building types as a function of the depth of flooding. However, flood depths are such that in many cases a
property is either not flooded at all or flooded to a depth of several meters.
Direct damages The approach applied in some of the Provincial analyses and adopted in the analyses
undertaken for this report expresses the expected losses to a particular class of buildings and their contents
as a proportion of the total asset value of those classes within the affected area. This is a widely adopted
approach: for example, it is that used in France and Hungary. These values were then converted into a loss
per mu in rural areas and a loss per capita in urban areas.
Indirect losses The National code (SL206-98) proposes that 20% of direct losses be taken to give indirect
losses. Detailed analyses in the UK of industrial indirect losses give a similar figure but floods in the UTK
usually last less than a day as compared the several weeks on the Yangtze. Therefore, the code value can
be taken to be reasonably conservative. In some cases, it was possible to use the industrial turnover figure
for the Province to give a turnover per day, and then to multiply this figure by an estimate of the gross
margin and by the approximate duration of flooding. The analysis by Hunan Province included estimates
of the costs of disruption on the main rail lines and this was included into the benefit assessment described
here.
B-8:   Agricultural losses
For agriculture, the two main components of losses are to standing crops and to livestock. Because of the
long duration of the flood both the spring and autumn crops of rice are affected; the standing plants of the
first crop are lost and planting of the second crop is delayed so that a catch crop must be planted, if
possible, instead. The economic loss resulting from the complete loss of the first crop is given by the gross
margin on the crop (basically sales price minus variable costs), adjusted to reflect the variable costs that
will already have been incurred (i.e. seeds, fertilizer, pesticides).   For the second crop, either the
unadjusted gross margin should be used or it may be possible to plant a catch crop in the shortened
growing season remaining. In the latter case, the loss is the reduction in the gross margin per mu. The
Provinces based their analyses upon the National Code approach of converting the losses from past floods
to a loss per mu for agricultural areas had been used. In Hubei, an average loss in rural areas of 9,140
Yuan/mu was used, derived on the basis of flood surveys; and in Hunan in the more rural of the two areas,
a loss figure of 7,006 Yuan/mu was applied. As cross checks of the reasonableness of these values, they
can be compared first to one MWR report ("Impact of flood disasters on the economy, society and the
environment") that gives an average loss per mu, on the basis of post-flood surveys, over the period
1980-1989 as 12,120 Yuan/mu (1980s prices). Secondly, the resettlement plans give details on the
- 63 -



household size, land access per capita, house size and compensation payments for buildings. From this
data, the average compensation payment per mu can be calculated. In the case of Hunan, assuming that the
dwelling is of brick/wood construction (and thus likely to be largely destroyed in a flood), the building loss
per mu is equivalent to 8,200 Yuan/mu. To this would be added: crop loss, livestock loss, loss of building
contents and damage to other items found in rural areas, including roads and bridges. Consequently, the
values derived in the studies in each of the two Provinces appear to be quite plausible. The contribution of
crop losses to these overall losses is rather minor: output per in Hunan is given as 1,475 Yuan/mu for
paddy fields and 820 Yuan/mu for dryland farming.
B-9:  TGP effects
The Three Gorges Project (TGP) will impact to a varying extent on each of the three Provinces (see Table
5 below), this extent depending in part upon the contribution and timing of the flood flows from the
tributaries of the Yangtze. It is also necessary to analyze the benefits of the Project before and after the
completion of the TGP. Where the TGP has a major effect, then Project benefits, after TGP becomes fully
operational, fall accordingly.
Table 5: The Impact of the Three Gorges Project on the Flood Problems
Province                    Effect of the Three Gorges Project on Flood Losses
Hubei              significant reduction for whole length of river (a conservative assumption)
Hunan          significant reduction for upstream part of the Province; small effect for downstream
part
B-10: Phasing in of Project benefits
Two conservative assumptions have been made in the analyses:
*   none of the benefits of the Project occur until the fifth year of the Project; in practice,
depending upon the phasing of the construction works, there should be expected to be a
build-up of benefits starting with the completion of the first part of the Project with full
benefits occurTing with the completion of the whole Project.
*   the benefits of the Three Gorges Project are not phased in; all the reduction in the flood
alleviation benefits of the dike Project occurring immediately that the first part of the TGP
is operational.
Because benefits and costs occurring in the early part of the life of a Project contribute a disproportionate
part of the benefits and costs, both assumptions are conservative.
C:    COSTS
The definition of benefits and costs given earlier defines a cost as any negative change relative to the
baseline condition. The most obvious costs are therefore associated with the construction of the Project but
it has been sought to examine all of the important negative changes.
-64-



C-1:  Capital costs
These include all construction costs and, for convenience, where a particular component has an expected
engineering life less than the overall life of scheme, the costs of replacement during the life of the scheme.
Renovation of bank protection has been included as part of the annual 0 & M costs but one of the risks is
of catastrophic failure of part of the bank protection works requiring replacement.  As bank protection
costs are a large fraction of the capital costs, the assessment of the likely life expectancy and probability of
success are critical considerations to the Project. Commitment costs have also been included in these costs.
The practice in China is also to establish a revolving fund at the start of the Project from which 0 & M
costs are paid. Strictly, inclusion of this amount as part of the costs of the Project may be regarded as
double-counting but it has been included on the grounds that the need arises from the equivalent of market
imperfections.
C-2:  Operation and maintenance
There should generally be a reduction in the real costs of Operation and Maintenance (O&M) which should
be treated as a Project benefit rather than a reduction in costs. The exception is any new costs which are
not incurred under the baseline case.
C-3:  Residual value
No allowance has been made for a residual value of the Project at the end of its predicted engineering life; it
is assumed that at that point in time the present value of future benefits has fallen to the present value of
future costs and hence that the residual value of the Project is zero.
C-4:  Resettlement
The aim of the resettlement plan is to ensure that those affected have the same level of welfare after
resettlement as they have at present. Therefore, there are no negative benefits of resettlement to be
evaluated and the costs of resettlement are simply included under the cost side of the equation.
C-5:  Disruption during construction
Construction will give rise to noise and dust nuisance, and to increases in local traffic. Those who would
be worst affected by these effects are those who will be resettled in any case. In general, it is likely to be
preferable to manage these issues through consultation with local communities rather than to seek to
evaluate them in economic terms. The danger of seeking to evaluate them is the potential anomaly that is
created whereby a Project which is strongly desired by the community to be protected is rejected on the
basis of an economic analysis which asserts that the disruption caused in the construction period to the
local community is such as to outweigh the potential benefits.
C-6:  Environmental impacts
Environmental protection action is to be undertaken so that the Project will not adversely affect any
significant environmental resources/values but instead will contribute to achievement of an
economically-cum-environmentally sound and therefore sustainable project. Therefore, there are no
negative environmental benefits of resettlement to be evaluated and the costs of environmental mitigation
are simply included under the cost side of the equation.
- 65 -



C-7:  Impacts on navigation
As discussed earlier, the impacts of the Project are likely to be, on balance, positive.
C-8:  Impacts on tourism
A potential negative benefit of the Project, and hence a cost, is the impact on tourism. Raising the banks
will reduce the visibility of the countryside and urban areas from tourist boats. However, these effects are
likely to be minimal: the degree to which views are obstructed depends upon the change in the angle of sight
subtended by the eyes of the passengers on the boats. Since the river is wide, the narrowest points in
Hunan Province during the dry season being 500-600 meters wide, the change in the angle of sight of
increases in dike crest height of less generally less than 1 meter is small. Bank protection strategies such as
rip-rap almost certainly reduce the attractiveness of the banks but some of the rivers most heavily used for
tourism, such as the Rhine and Danube, are also the most heavily engineered rivers. Therefore, it is not to
be expected that there will be significant effects on tourism.
D:  FRAMEWORK OF ANALYSIS
D-1:  Discount rate
The national guidelines (SL206-98) require the use of a discount rate of 12% for projects, such as large
hydroelectric plants, that yield a fnancial retum. Those guidelines require the use of a discount rate of 7%
for projects which do not yield a financial return. In view of the rate of growth in the economy of China, to
which the opportunity cost of capital, the basis for discounting, should be related, a discount rate of 12%
has been adopted. The problems of establishing the true opportunity cost of capital are similar to those in
correcting the Gross Domestic Product measure. The true opportunity cost of capital is the return
elsewhere in the economy after all externalities have been included and after corrections have been made for
reductions in natural capital. A lower rate than 12% could be defended but constraints on capital
availability typically mean that there are other projects which are viable at higher discount rates and which
should, therefore, be preferred to the project being appraised. Unfortunately, the use of discounting only
gives a measure, weighted by the discount rate used, of the area under the net annual benefit curve. Any
preferences that may be held about the shape of the curve will only incidentally be captured by the
discounting approach. These preferences are usually labeled as 'individual time preferences'. Therefore,
the latest version of the MAFF (1999) guidelines require that the net annual benefit curve be plotted,
particularly when different 'do something' options are being compared. If appropriate, a reasoned
argument may then be put forward as to why an option with a lower net present value should be preferred
to the option with the highest net present value. One reason which might be given for preferring an option
which does not have the highest NPV is that the annual net benefits fall below zero in the long run and stay
negative; the argument about inter-generational equity is a special instance of this general case. Here,
because only a single "do something" option is being compared to the baseline option, the case for plotting
the net annual benefit curve is less pressing but it has been done: since the results are uninteresting, the
graphs are not included in this report.
D-2:  Growth rates
The national code (SL206-98) allows for losses from future floods to be assumed to increase by a rate
usually of around 3% each year. Such growth factors should not be applied in benefit-cost analyses except
in special circumstances and then growth factors should be applied to all streams of benefits and costs and
not just to a single stream. The reason for using a discount rate is that altemative investments throughout
- 66 -



the economy are anticipated to yield a return on capital and therefore some expectation of growth is already
built in to the analysis; the discount rate used should thus be related to the expected growth in the national
economy. There are then a number of reasons why a growth rate might be considered. The first is that the
economy in the Province is anticipated to faster than the national economy as a whole. The correct
approach in this case is to use a higher discount rate because other investments in the economy of the
Province would yield a greater return than in other parts of the country. Conversely, if the economy in the
Province is growing more slowly than the national economy as a whole, then there is a case for the use of
lower discount rate. A second reason is to take account of anticipated future intensification of development
in the area either through changes in cropping patterns to higher valued crops or urban development. A
reasoned case really needs to be made for such an expectation and rather than a blanket growth rate being
applied, a phased projection of future development in specific areas ought to be adopted because future
development is likely to be geographically concentrated rather than uniformly distributed. In this analysis
growth rates were not used.
D-3:  Scheme life
The engineering life for the embankments has been assumed to be 50 years; this is consistent with the
engineering life assumed for similar countries in other countries. The engineering lives of other components
are lower and are again consistent with those used elsewhere.
Figure 1: Household Contents Losses: Flood Damages as a Proportion of Total Value of Contents
Contents loss - proportional losses
70
60 -
50- "-"'%?s-'"                          UK: FLAIR%
30                                  -a- USA -
20                                        Appelbaum 1985
10 -                        ,
0                                   a, Japan
o    o    0               Cl
depth
- 67 -



Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
E:     RISKS
The outcomes of decisions are always uncertain, not least because they lie in the future. Outcomes can be
uncertain in two different ways: parametric uncertainties and systemic uncertainties. The first has been
described as 'what we know we do not know' and can be quantified. We can, for example, associate
standard errors of the mean to the results of statistical analyses. Systemic uncertainties are 'what we do
not know that we do not know': they arise because our models or theories may be incomplete or simply
wrong. For example, we may apply a linear model to analyze what is really a nonlinear system or the t-test
for difference in means to data whose distribution is not normal. Until climate change was detected, there
was systemic uncertainty about long term trends in rainfall intensity and runoff: now this has, arguably,
been reduced to parametric uncertainty. In classical terms, parametric uncertainty is risk, because we can
identify completely all of the possible outcomes and associate a probability with each, whilst systemic
uncertainty is true uncertainty because it is not even possible to identify all possible outcomes.   In
summary, therefore, the picture of sources and nature of uncertainties is as shown below:
Probabilities             Well Differentiated               Undefined
Systemic uncertainty             Uncertainty                   Ignorance
(Undefined)
Parametric uncertainty               Risk                        Amnbiguity
(Well defined)
Risks are then a single category within in this classification and one which whilst most easily assessed can
be the least important. There is consequently a danger that concentrating upon risks about outcomes will
distract from the real issue of decision uncertainty. One way of handling decision uncertainty is to ask how
great must be outcome uncertainties before they matter. The benefit-cost ratio itself is a good indicator of
the robustness of the choice of the do something option over the baseline option to the uncertainties about
the different streams of benefits and costs. Rather than a benefit-cost ratio of one forming a hurdle that
must be jumped in order for the Project to be economically viable, it is actually the ratio at which there is
the maximum uncertainty as to whether a project is justified. If the benefit-cost ratio is 0.3 then we can be
pretty confident that the Project is not viable; conversely, if the ratio is 5, then we can be very confident
that the Project is viable. If the benefit-cost ratio is one, then only an infinitesimally small underestimate of
the costs or overestimate of the benefits would make the Project inefficient. Experience also suggests that
if the benefit-cost ratio is greater than about 15, then it is most likely that there is a major error in the
analysis, such as a failure to apply discounting correctly. What we therefore want to know is how robust is
the conclusion that the b/c ratio is greater than one; we want to know how hard we can hit the analysis
before the b/c ratio falls below one. This can be done by identifying the parameters that have the greatest
impact on the b/c ratio and using values that are extremely unlikely to be correct. If the b/c ratio still stays
above one, then we can be highly confident that the Project is worthwhile. In effect, we see how hard we
can kick the decision before it breaks. Arbitrarily varying the benefits and costs up or down by some
percentage adds nothing to what we knew already because the benefit-cost ratio tells us by how much
benefits could fall or costs could rise before the benefit-cost ratio fell to one. Experience indicates what the
parameters are that will affect the benefit-cost ratio and the relative magnitude of their influence (See Table
6 below).
- 68 -



Table 6:    Parameters which May Affect the B/C Ratio and the Decision
Parameter             Affect on decision                                      Test
Labor costs of 0 & M           Economic growth should be expected to increase the real cost   Not necessary
of labor over time. However, the contribution to scheme
benefits are given by the difference between the costs of 0 &
M of the baseline option and the do something option; this
significantly reduces the effect upon the net present value of
the do something option of prediction errors in future labor
costs. It is has moreover be argued that real 0 & M costs
should be expected to fall with the Project. Omission is
therefore conservative.
The Project is inadequately    There is inadequate funding available to maintain the   Yes, the greatest risk is
maintained                     existing dike system; therefore, there is a risk that the   that the bank protection
availability of funds will not be sufficient to maintain the   works will require more
Project. Thus, over time the protection offered by the Project   maintenance and repairs;
will decline.                                           bank protection costs also
constitute a significant
proportion of the capital
costs
Breach probabilities           The assessment of the probabilities of a breach occurring   Yes; test breach
under the baseline and do something options has a major   probabilities both for the
effect on the net present value of the do something option.   baseline and the do
One reason why breach probabilities might not be reduced by   something condition
the anticipated amounts with the do something option is if
designed construction standards are not achieved.
Existing standard of           The majority of flood alleviation benefits come from    Usually necessary; here
protection                     reductions in the consequence of high frequency events.   breach probabilities are
Therefore, errors in the estimation of the design standard of   more critical
protection offered by the existing embankments will have a
significant effect upon the predicted present value of the
benefits of the do something option. It has been shown that
is acceptable to vary the return period of the flood stages
rather than to vary the flood stages in testing for this effect.
Impact on existing standard of  If the Three Gorges Project will significantly increase the   Yes
protection of TGP and          design standard of protection offered by the existing
upstream works                 embankments, then this would significantly reduce scheme
benefits.
Capital cost of construction of   Because capital costs occur in the initial years, errors in the   No, b/c ratio shows how
scheme                         predicted construction costs have a significant effect upon the   great must be the
predicted net present value of the scheme.              underestimation factor
must be before the
Project would not be
justified
Geomorphologic stability       Bank protection works are intended to protect the dikes and   Yes, reduce life
to stabilize the river channel.  If these works are not   expectancy of bank
successful then in the extreme case parts of the dike will be   protection works - same
lost and a retreated dike will have to be built at some future   effect as 0 & M
date. Before that happens, further attempts would almost   estimates
certainly be made at river training.
- 69 -



Value of property at risk      Economic growth should result in higher values at risk; the   No
assumption of constant real prices in assessing benefits is
therefore a conservative assumption.
Change in susceptibility  of   With  economic growth, the construction  standards of   No
property to flood damage       buildings have risen and are likely in the first instance to
reduce susceptibility to damage (e.g. replacement of earlier
timber and earth buildings by concrete and/or masonry
structures). Conversely, electronic machinery is much more
susceptible to damage by flood than the hand and
mechanically operated equipment it replaces.  Increased
industrial concentration similarly increases indirect costs: lost
production cannot then be made up elsewhere in China. It is
very difficult to assess the likely direction of the overall
change but the use of constant real prices is likely to be
conservative.
Engineering life               With a discount rate of 12%, the present value of the benefits   No
of the scheme                  in the period of c + 30 to c + 50 years is low.
Climate change                 Climate change is predicted to change both rainfall and   No, direction of change is
runoff, specific climate predictions for China are not to hand.   unknown
Therefore direction and extent of the change is unknown.
But the effects will be greatest in later years when the effects
would have the least impact on present values.
Increased development of the   With increased intensity of development of the protected   No
protected areas                areas, losses from floods should also be expected to rise.
However, the economic objective is not strictly to reduce
flood losses but to increase the efficiency of the use of the
river basin as a whole. The appropriate way to include the
effects of increased development is not to increase the flood
losses but to determine whether increased development in the
particular location increases the efficiency of use of land.
A detailed assessment has been performed for various parametric conditions as mentioned above to test the viability of the
Project. It will be noticed from Tables 7A and 7B below that under no circumstance does the B/C ratio drop below 1.2
(EIRR=15%) for any of the provinces examined indicating that the Project is very robust.
- 70 -



Table 7A: Parameter Risk Assessment - Benefit Cost Ratio
Risk Application                                    Hubei                 Hunan
Base case                                            5.2                   2.3
Delay of 2 years and TGP is on time                  3.4                   1.9
Loss estimation 30% less than base                   3.5                   1.6
Breach probabilities are 50% for 1/10 year           4.6                   1.5
Probability of breach for 1/20 is 50% etc.           3.0                   1.4
Table 7B: Parametric Risk Assessment - EIRR Terms
Risk Application                                              Hubei          Hunan
Base case                                                      53%            25%
Delay of 2 years and TGP on Time                               30%            24%
Loss estimation 30% less than base                             37%            21%
Breach probabilities are 50% for the 1/10 year                 34%            19%
Probabilities of breach for 1/20 is 50%                        50%            18%
Assume high frequency events are not included                  38%            15%
-71 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CHINA: Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project
Years Ending
December 31, 2000 to June 30, 2005
(in US$ million)
Year I  I Year2 2    Year 3    Year 4     Year 5    Year 6  { Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
InvestmentCosts           14.3      124.2     191.0      111.5       78.6       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         14.3      124.2     191.0      111.5       78.6       0.0       0.0
Interest during   0.0        1.6        2.4       5.9        8.6        5.3       0.0
construction
Front-end fee    0.0        2.1        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Financing             14.3      127.9     193.4      117.4       87.2       5.3       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   0.0      45.0       65.0       52.0      48.0       0.0        0.0
Government                14.3      82.9      128.4       65.4      39.2       5.3        0.0
Central               11.4       57.0       93.2      51.6       32.5       5.3       0.0
Provincial             2.9       25.9      35.2       13.8        6.7       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    14.3      127.9      193.4     117.4       87.2       5.3       0.0
Y eari I   Year 2  IYe;ar3       Year        erSIYaS              e
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Interest during construction  0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Front-end fee   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Financing             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Government                0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Central               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
- 72 -



Main assumptions:
Table 1: Financing Anfangeiit by Components and Sources
The Peose'sepubicofChina                           The    Govement                     Provrice                Provnwce     The
Ya-gize DOSke Sfoev  Prject (YDSP)                World     Fundsto    SWe Bonds   CtylCounty  State Bands  City/Couty Govemrment    Total
DtabsnentAocounts by Finances                     Bank       WlR           Hubei     Funds Hubei    Hunar    Funds Huran
pU 4ilion)
A Chanq   Water Resources Commission
1. Site Prepwadon, River Model                   -          3.8           -            -            -           -          -          3.8
2. Civil WOs
a River Bak Protedion                           -         93.6          -             -           -           -           -         936
b. Dke RehahEtaon                               -         9.8           -             -           -           -          -          9.8
G Physical RMriModdin                          6.6        2.0           -             -           -           -          -          8.6
Subttal Civil Works                             6.6        105.4                                                                     112.0
3. Goods
a. CikeMordgir q&Ri-Modleng                    19         1.9           -             -           -           -          -          3.8
b. Equiiert Fbod Prewon & Milgaton Center      0.5        0.1           -             -           -           -          -          0.6
SubltoW GoDds                                   2A          20            -            -            -           -          -          4.4
4. Pmectangementand lrsiftoalAnangment    1.2               1.5                  -            -                 -         1.2         3.9
SubtaldChangW ater ResouresCornumsion          10.2       11Z7           -            -            -           -         1.2        1241
B. Flood Disaster Prevention Center                1.4         0.1           -            -            -           -          -          1.5
C. FLbei Province
1. CivU Works
a Dke Rehabitaton                             140.7        -           37.5          9.4          -           -          -         187.6
b. OherMinorCM VVa                             18.2        -            6.2          4.2          -           -          -          28.6
Subtotal Cvil Works                             158.9                    43.7         13.6                -                -         216.2
Z Goods
a DkeMaiaing&OGM Equprent                      5.7         -            0.9          0.5          -           0.0        0.0        7.1
b. Offce Equment and Instrument                0.3         -            -             -           -           0.0        0.0        0.3
Subtoal Goods                                   6.0          -           0.9          0.5           -          0.0        0.0         7.4
3. Reseleent
Resetert Housing- -                                                    12.8         19.2          -           -          -          32 0
Land Ahxuston and Otlers                        -          -           16.4         24.6          -           -          -          41.0
Sutiotl Resettlernent                            -                       29.2         43.8          -           -          -         73.0
4. nstitutional Devdopmerrt                     2.4          -           0.6          0.4           -           -          -          3A
5. Project Manageen t                            -                       12.7         5A            -           -                    18.1
Substeota Hubei Province                          167.3         -           87.1         63.7          -           -          -         318.1
D. Hurian Province
1. Civil Woks
a. lkeRehabiabfion                             24.6        -             -            -          11.6         8.3        -          44.5
b. OtlerMinorCMisi\ksl                         3.0         -            -             -           0.7         0.5        -          4.2
Subtotal Civil Works                            27.6         -            -             -          123          8.8        -          48.7
2. Goods
a Dke Mantarin & OIMI EqupTent                 OA          -             -            -           0.1         -           -         0.5
3. Resetemt
Resefterdent,jaig                              -           -            -            -           1.8         1.8        0.1         3.7
Land Acquisbon and Others                            -                  -            -           9.2         9.2        0.6        19.0
SubtDtal Reseelerment                            -           -            -            -          11.0         11.0       0.7        22.7
4. InstSoii   DevebpmerTt                       1.0          -            -            -           0.6         0.6        0.0         22
5. ProjectManagement                             -           -            -            -           1.3         0.3        0.0         1.6
SubtoW Hurnan Province                             29.0         -            -            -          25.3        20.7        0.7        75.7
TOTAL                                         207.9       112.8        87.1         63,7         25.3        20.7        1.9       519.4
Frcrt End Fee                                  2.1         -            -             -           -           -          -          21
Iteret during construdcon                       -          -            -             -           -           -         23.8        23.8
Grand1to0bl                                   210.0      112.8         87.1         63.7         25.3        20.7       25.7       545.3
/a ncuding buLdiWgs, aest road, wSehcuse, grass and tree pantatm
/btiduring bulinrgs, aest road, wamsheu, grass and tree ploa n
- 73 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CHINA: Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project
Procurement
A-I:  Institutional Arrangements
Provincial Project Management Office Each Province has established a Provincial Project Management
Office (PPMO) for the day-to-day responsibilities and to coordinate Project implementation. Although
there are slight variations in the two provinces generally the PPMO, which will function as a group headed
by a senior official from Provincial Planning Commission or Provincial Finance Bureau, will have staff
seconded from the Provincial Water Conservancy. The PPMO will have overall responsible for Project
planning, financial management, technical and procurement affairs, preparation of annual work plans,
coordination between the PMOs at local Government levels, and assuring counterpart funding.
Changjiang Water Resources Commission The Changjiang Water Resources Commission (CWRC),
which is under the Ministry of Water Resources, will implement the river bank protection and selected dike
foundation treatment works not financed by the Bank. CWRC will also be responsible for the river
modeling and be involved in the dike monitoring program. CWRC will put in place adequate organizational
arrangements for the implementation of the river bank protection and dike foundation treatment works in
close consultation with Hubei and Hunan. CWRC will also set up a Project Management Office (PMO) for
the planning, implementation and operation of a physical model for the middle reach of the Yangtze River.
Divisional Responsibilities   The PPMO will establish five divisions: (i) general services; (ii) finance;
(iii) procurement; (iv) engineering; and (v) environment and resettlement. The main responsibilities of the
engineering and procurement divisions are:
Procurement Division
*  guide and supervise the preparation of bidding documents for civil works and goods;
*  co-ordinate and supervise compliance with procurement procedures;
- prepare ICB/NCB procurement plans for all major works and goods;
*   manage, with assistance from a National Tendering Corporation, the procurement under
ICB for equipment; and
*  ensure that contracts are concluded and implemented by the local government agencies as
"owners'.
Engineering Division:
*   oversee design and construction progress, construction supervision including quality
control and contractor performance;
*  prepare and monitor annual construction and investment plans;
* guide and supervise Project procurement, carry out field inspections to verify payment
claims, construction progress and quality of work; and
*  prepare bi-annual physical progress report, including procurement reporting.
The two provinces have managed several IBRD/IDA supported projects (9 projects in different sectors) in
the past and their staff is familiar with the processing of: (i) procurement in accordance with Bank
- 74 -



Guidelines; and (ii) withdrawal applications and disbursement of funds under World Bank supported
projects. Most project expenditures will be made through ICB/NCB contracts and will be properly
documented. This will help to simplify financial management for the Project. Detailed arrangements for
financial management and control systems under the Project, including the adoption of tabular formats for
financial reporting, have been agreed. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will manage the Special Account
(SA) for Bank Loan funds.
Local Project Management Office At the local government levels (Prefecture/City and County/District),
Project Management Offices (LPMO) have been established. Each LPMO will be responsible for Project
planning, fnancial management, technical affairs, preparation of annual work plans, coordination between
Government organizations and implementation agencies, and assuring counterpart funding. The LPMOs
will adopt and set up a similar organizational structure as the PPMO. They will provide guidance and
oversee the construction of works by the owners, which in most cases will be the dike management offices.
The LPMO will be responsible for:
*  coordinating overall Project implementation, preparation of annual design, investigation
and construction plans;
*  reviewing and approving NCB bid documentation, procurement processing, bid evaluation
and contract award;
*  ensuring availability of adequate counterpart-funding;
*  preparing financial statements and reports on physical and financial progress;
* overseeing implementation performance, Project acceptance, financial auditing, Project
transfer and trial operation;
*  processing periodic requests for disbursement against contractor payment certificates from
the implementing agencies and forward them to the PPMO; and
*  monitoring the implementation of RAPs and EMPs.
Implementation Agencies    The implementation of Project works will be entrusted to owner
organizations, which in most cases will be the Dike Management Offices and in a few cases the Water
Conservancy Bureaus at local Government levels. The structure and staffing of these offices will be
adjusted to match the Project scope and the technical complexity of contracts to be implemented. The local
governments will establish additional implementation units as needed. The implementation agencies will
follow instructions from provincial and prefecture/city PMOs to ensure that adequate attention is paid to
important Project implementation actions, such as adopting agreed bidding and selection procedures for the
contracting of construction supervisors, suppliers and contractors. Their main responsibilities are to:
*   prepare annual financing needs for each contract, construction schedules and supply of
materials;
*  manage procurement processes, including preparation of bid documents, pre-qualification
of contractors, evaluation of bids received, recommendation for contract award and
contract signing;
*  organize detailed Project design, construction supervision and organize and prepare Project
acceptance and certification reports;
*   implement the environmental management and resettlement action plans and arrange for
timely land acquisition;
*   control, manage, and supervise the allocation of Project funds;
*  prepare Project progress report, and assist with preparation of financial and audit
statements;
- 75 -



*  maintain key Project data and files; and
*  arrange for World Bank missions to inspect Project sites.
Planning and Design The Provincial Investigation and Design Institutes (PIDI) and CWRC's Design
Institute (CWRCDI) have assisted the provincial and local Government WRHBs and Dike Management
Offices since 1998 with Project formulation, the preparation of the feasibility studies and the planning and
design of Project works. To ensure continuity, the implementation agencies will retain PIDI and CWRCDI
to prepare final designs of the major Project works including construction drawings, technical
specifications and bill of quantities for incorporation in the bid documentation. PIDI and CWRCDI will
also be retained to carry out design changes during Project implementation. Technical specialists will be
contracted as required to assist with resolving complex design or construction issues.
Construction Supervision    The owner organizations at local government levels will use competitive
selection procedures for the employment of nationally recognized "Grade A" organizations to act for the
owners as the "Engineer" for the construction of works. The Project Coordination Office (PCO) will make
sure that the owners employ consultants with relevant experience. As experience in this area may be
limited in China, joint ventures of domestic and international consultants will be considered. The owners
will also continue to retain PIDI and CWRCDI during the construction of works to make design
adjustmnents as needed. Note also that the EMO is to furnish Environmental Construction Inspectors (ECIs)
to work with and through the Construction Engineer to check the environmental performance (EP) by
contractors and to require improvements in their EP as needed.
Procurement Methods The Guidelines for procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published
by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999
will be applied to Bank financed procurement of goods and works. The Standard Bidding Documents
(SBD) developed by the Ministry of Finance and the Bank will be adopted for all International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for works and goods, and the Standard Bid
Evaluation Form will be used. Works procured through ICB and NCB costing in excess of Yuan 35.0
million will be processed by the PPMO. The LPMO will manage all other NCB contracts. Small civil
works contracts and works procured through local procedures and force account will be managed by the
District and County level Dike Management Divisions or Water Conservancy Bureaus Project cost and
procurement arrangements are shown in Table A. For contracting consulting services, the Guidelines for
the Selection and Employment of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997, revised
September 1997 and January 1999, as well as the Standard Request for Proposals dated July 1997, revised
April 1998 and July 1999 for consultant requirements will be applied.
Local Bidding Procedures and Procurement Capacity Assessment A new Law related to procurement
procedures - "The Tendering Law" of the People's Republic of China - was adopted and promulgated on
August 30, 1999 and had become effective as from January 1, 2000. At present both provinces and
CWRC have in place instructions, detailing the local bidding procedures to be followed under state and
local government financed projects. Those instructions are based on guidelines issued by the Ministry of
Water Resources. The bidding process for civil works starts with the completion of: (i) preliminary designs
for the works at hand; (ii) preparation of investment and financing plans; (iii) nomination of the "owner" in
charge of implementing the works; and (iv) organizational arrangements for implementation of works.
Once this bidding package has been prepared, it is submitted to the Provincial Tendering Administration
Committee for their review and approval. The submission also includes: (i) a description of the bidding
procedures to be followed; (ii) the type of works, including specifications and bill of quantities; (iii)
principles of bid evaluation; and (iv) qualification criteria for potential bidders. This agency checks whether
the documentation is in line with provincial regulations and instructions. If everything is found to be in
- 76 -



order, an authorization to proceed is issued. Regarding civil works on the Yangtze Class I and II dikes as
well as key works on Class III dikes a "public" process of competitive bidding will be followed. Invitations
for bids are posted in national and provincial newspapers. For works on lower class dikes competitive
bidding is suggested, but inviting bids from at least five qualified bidders is permitted and commonly
followed. No sole source invitation to negotiate a contract is followed, except in emergency situations. For
the earth/rock works on Class I dikes, only national contractors certified as Grade "A" and "B" are allowed
to participate. For the construction of cross-dike structures only Grade "A" contractors are authorized to
participate. The following steps are generally followed for inviting and processing bids: (i) prepare bid
documentation and cost estimate; (ii) advertise the invitation to submit pre-qualifications; (iii) evaluation of
pre-qualifications and preparation of list of bidders; (iv) issue bid documents to qualified bidders; (v)
schedule bid conference and site visit; (vi) sent clarifications to all qualified bidders based on questions
asked during the bid conference and site visit; (vii) bid preparation period is generally 7-8 days but
sometimes as short as 3 days; (viii) form a bid evaluation committee and detail the evaluation methodology
to be followed; (ix) submission of bids followed by public bid opening on the same day; (x) bid evaluation
and recommendation for award; (xi) contract award; and (xii) contract signing. Some of the local bidding
procedures are not in compliance or inconsistent with the Bank's procurement guidelines. The main
inconsistencies are: (i) preparation of cost estimates based on out-of-date normns and guidelines issued by
Government; (ii) the use of cost estimates in the evaluation of bids or for "bracketing", e.g. if the bid price
exceeds the cost estimate by 5% or more or is lower than 8% or more then bids are declared non-responsive
and rejected; (iii) too short bid periods of 7-8 days (new Law stipulates 20 days); and (iv) bid evaluation
criteria are not detailed in the bid document, only principles are given. Each bid evaluation committee sets
the evaluation method after bid opening. In most cases the "points system" is followed. Points are scored
for the following five elements: (i) bid price; (ii) technical approach for construction of works; (iii) quality
assurance arrangements; (iv) proposed measures to ensure timely completion; and (v) contractor's
experience and financial performance. The bid scoring the most points is awarded the contract. A bid bond
of at least 3% of the bid price and a performance bond of at least 8% are required. The advance payment to
contractors ranges from 10-20%. Local bidding procedures for goods do not use "bracketing" and bids for
goods are generally received from bidders invited to submit bids. As most goods are of local origin,
provincial procurement agents are used. The lack of experience with undertaking procurement in
accordance with World Bank guidelines will be addressed as follows. First, procurement training will be
provided to staff handling procurement at the PPMO and LPMO levels. This training will be overseen by
Resident Mission procurement staff and will start during the Project Launch Workshop. Second, a strict
Bank review of procurement procedures will be put in place during the early stages of Project
implementation, which will include Bank review of the first three NCB contracts in each province
irrespective of contract values.
During loan negotiations a supplementary letter to the legal documents was agreed stating that the
Borrower and the Provinces will not use local procedures unacceptable to the Bank for procurement of
Bankfinanced works, goods or services. This letter will be signed by the Borrower and Hubei and Hunan
provinces at loan signing.
A-2:  Procurement Implementation Plan
General   Time bound procurement implementation plans for each province have been prepared using
Microsoft Project and a critical path method (CPM). The program is structured by Project components
detailed in Annex 2, which for most part are linked to the layout of existing dike sections. The contract
packaging is also based on this breakdown. Works on various dike sections will start simultaneously and
be completed more or less at the same time.
- 77 -



A-3:  Procurement Action Plan
Civil Works The aggregate civil works contract value of works executed under the Project is estimated
at US$380.8 million. The total value of NCB civil works undertaken under the Project is estimated at
US$253.9 million; the aggregate value of Small Works (SW) contracts is estimated at US$19.70 million.
The aggregate value of Non Bank Financed civil works is US$107.2 million. The contracts for riverbank
protection (US$93.6 million) and selected dike foundation treatment works (US$9.8 million) will be
undertaken by CWRC using 100 percent government financing (NBF). The civil works for the physical
river model under the CWRC component, estimated at US$8.6 million (excluding US$3.8 million for site
preparation, which is financed by the Govermment), will be procured through three 3 NCB contracts of
about US$2.9 million each. The dike strengthening works in Hubei and Hunan will be undertaken in forty
four sections involving many local governments dispersed over a river stretch of about 1,000 km. Since the
contracts are of relatively small value (about US$6.8 million on average per contract), widely dispersed
along the river and with possible annual interruptions by floods, they will not be of interest to international
contractors and, therefore, NCB procedures will be adopted. The dike strengthening works, including the
cross-dike structures and supply and installation of gates/hoists, will be undertaken through 36 contracts
(27 for Hubei and 9 for Hunan) with a total value of US$200.2 million in Hubei and US$45.1 million in
Hunan. Remedial works on dike crest roads are valued at US$12.6 million in Hubei and US$1.7 in Hunan
and will be procured using NCB procedures in packages ranging in value from US$0.2 million to US$1.0
million and for those works costing less than US$200,000 (US$5.4 million in Hubei and US$0.7 million in
Hunan) Small Works (SW) procedures will be used, including lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on
the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation. Procurement of grass and tree plantation, with an aggregate value of US$13.6 million (US$10.3
million in Hubei and US$3.3 million in Hunan), will also be undertaken through SW contract procedures.
Total SW packages are estimated at 1 10 scattered along the dikes, of which 85 will be in Hubei and 25 in
Hunan. Table B-2 gives the bidding procedures to be used and a detailed breakdown of the contract
packaging, by package type (civil works, goods and services), Project component grouping, contract
package group, and number of packages by Project component.
Goods The total value of goods to be procured under the Project is estimated at US$12.0 million. The
supply of goods/equipment for river modeling by CWRC (US$3.1 million) and equipment for O&M and
dike monitoring (US$5.2 million) will be procured through three ICB contracts (total value US$8.3
million). A margin of preference of 15 percent of the CIF price of imported goods or actual customs
duties, whichever is lower, will be applied to domestically manufactured goods procured through ICB.
Another US$3.3 million of O&M and dike monitoring equipment will be procured using NCB procedures
through contracts estimated to cost less than US$250,000. Miscellaneous equipment, such as office
equipment and vehicles with an aggregate value of US$0.4 million will be purchased in contracts costing
less than US$100,000 through "national shopping" procedures.
Technical Assistance The aggregate value of international and national consultant services contracts
under the Project is estimated at US$9.8 million. The aggregate value of the Bank financed portion of the
Technical Assistance (TA) components amounts to US$5.1 million, with the balance or US$4.7 million
being Non Bank Financed (NBF). All consulting contracts, including those for river modeling, which are
expected to cost more than US$100,000 (aggregate value of US$2.2 million) will use the "Quality Based
selection" or "QBS" procedures. Consulting contracts expected to cost less than US$100,000 (aggregate
value estimated at US$2.8 million) will use the "Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications" or "CQ"
procedures. "Single Source Selection" procedures will be for consultant contracts costing less than
- 78 -



$50,000 each (aggregate value estimated at US$0.1 million) after prior approval of the Bank. Individual
consultants will be procured under the procedures in the guidelines for employment of individuals. All
consulting assignments with values over US$200,000 will be advertised in the Development Business
periodical.
Training and Study Tours    Bank financed training and study tours, estimated to cost US$1.1 million,
are planned for three target groups: (i) the managerial staff of the Borrower; (ii) managerial staff of
PPMOs and LPMOs; and (iii) the technical staff responsible for survey, design, construction and
maintenance of the Project works. Training and skill development areas will include use of modem and
innovative construction technologies, Project management, maintenance of major structures (including dike
safety), and modem construction practices. Reimbursement of training and study tours expenditures will
be subject to a prior "no objection" from the Bank. These training and study tour programs would be 100
percent financed from Bank Loan proceeds.
Other Items not Financed by the Bank The implementation by CWRC of river protection and some dike
foundation treatmnent contracts valued at US$103.4 million will not be financed by the Bank. Land
acquisition and resettlement cost (US$95.0 million), site preparation for river modeling (US$3.8 million),
survey, design and construction supervision, Project management and offices (US$19.8 million), consulting
services and training (US$5.8 million) and IDC and commitmnent charges (US$23.8 million) will be funded
by local sources of funds.
Prior Review All ICB contracts for goods worth US$250,000 or more (US$8.3 million) would be
subject to prior review. For NCB procurement of civil works costing US$200,000 or more bid documents,
bid evaluation and award recommendation reports for the first three bids per province will be subject to
prior review by the Bank. Thereafter only bids with cost estimates exceeding US$5.0 million equivalent
will be subject to prior review. This is estimated to cover 27 civil works contracts representing about 81
percent or US$205.0 million of the NCB aggregate contract value of US$ 253.9 million. Contracts for
consultant services in excess of US$50,000 for individuals (US$2.7 million) and of US$100,000 for firms
(US$2.3 million) will be subject to prior review. Overseas and domestic training and study tours (US$1 .1
million) will be reimbursed based on programs agreed with the Bank. All other contracts will be subject to
ex-post review by Bank supervision missions (see Table B).
- 79 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
~~~~~~~~ _t
1. Works                           0.00         253.90          19.70         107.20        380.80
(0.00)       (180.70)       (12.30)        (0.00)       (193.00)
2. Goods                           8.30           3.30          0.40           0.00         12.00
(5.80)        (2.60)         (0.30)        (0.00)         (8.70)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00          5.10           4.70          9.80
Consultant services               (0.00)         (0.00)        (5.10)         (0.00)        (5.10)
4. Training and Study Tours        0.00           0.00          1.10           1.10          2.20
(0.00)        (0.00)         (1.10)        (0.00)         (1.1 0)
5. Interest during                 0.00           0.00          0.00          23.80         23.80
construction
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Front-end fee                   0.00           0.00          2.10          0.00           2.10
(0.00)        (0.00)         (2.10)        (0.00)         (2.10)
7. Resettlement and Land           0.00           0.00          0.00          95.00         95.00
Acquisition                       (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
8. Project Management and          0.00           0.00          0.00          19.80         19.80
Engineering                       (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                           8.30          257.20         28.40         251.60        545.50
(5.80)       (183.30)       (20.90)        (0.00)       (210.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2Includes "small works" (SW) civil works, goods to be procured through "local shopping", consulting
services, training and study tours and the front-end fee
- 80 -



Table A2: Detail Procurement Arrangements by Expenditure Accounts
The Peoples Republic of China
Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project (YDSP)                                                 Prucurement Mefhod
ProcurementArrangements                                                         Inteat.ional    National             Training &
(USS Million)                                                                   Compaeitive  Competitive   Local  Consulting
Blddino      Biddiso   Shoontno  Setrvicets   N B F      Total
A. Changjiang Water Resources Commission
1. Civil Works
a. MajorCivil Works
River Bank Protection                                                                                 -                       93.6      93.6
Dike Rehahlaitaion                                                                                                             3 8       9.8
Site Preparaton itr River Modeling                                                               -                     -                 3.8
Physical Model                                                                                  8                                        8  - 8.6
(6.8)                                   (6.9)
2. Goods
Control und Measuring System/Office Equipment for River Model                        3.1          0.6         -          -         -       3.7
(1.6)       (0.3)                                    (2.0)
Office Equipment FPMC la                                                               -          0.3                   0- -               0.3
(0.3)                                   (0.3)
3. Project Maengemrent
Maintenance and Operation fr River Modeling                                                   -               -        1.1       2.8       3.9
-(1.1)                      (1.2)
Consultng Services. Training and Sdy Tours FPMC                                        -            -         -        1.9         -       1.9
B. Hubei Province
1. Civil Works
a. Major Civil Works
Dike Rehabiliation                                                                   -        187.6         -          -        -      187.6
(140.6)                                  (140.6)
Buildings & Roads                                                                    -         12.6    5(3 -)                           18.0
(7.9)    (3.6)                          (11.5)
b. Minor Civil Works
Levee Cottage. Turffing and Tree Plantation                                                              10.3                           10.3
(8.7)                          (6.5)
2. Goods
Dike Monitoring & OperatniorMaintenance Equipment                                    5.0          2.1         -                            7.1
(4.0)       (1.7)                                    (5.7)
Office Equipment                                                                        -           -       0.3                    -       0.3
(0.3)                          (0.3)
3. ResetfSiment
Resettemrent Housing                                                                                                            32.0      32.0
Land Acquisiteon and Others                                                                                              -      40.9      40.9
4. Tchnical Assistance
Resettement & Environmental Monitodndg & Evaluaton                                            -          -             0.3       0 
(0.3)              (0.3)
Consulting Services                                                                                 -         -        1.3       0.6       1.9
(1.3)              (1.3)
Study Tours & Training                                                                                       (.0.6               0.6       1.2
(0.6)              (0.6)
5. Project Management                                                                                 -                           18.1      181
C. Huno Province
1. Civil Works
a. Major Civil Works
Dike Rehabilitation                                                                  -        243.4                                   (244364
(24.6)                                   (24.6)
Buldings & Roads                                                                     .          1.7       0.7          .                 2.5
(1.0)    (0.4)                          (1.4)
b. Minor Civil Works
Levee Cottage. Turffing and Tree Plantaton                                                                3.3                           13.3
(1.6)                          (1.6)
2. Goods
OperationtMaintenance Equapment                                                       0.2         0.2         .          -         .       0.4
(0.2)       (0.2)                                    (0.3)
Office Equipment                                                                        -0.1                                               0.1
(0.1)                          (0.1)
3. Resettlement
Resetliement Housing                                                                   1-6                                                 186
Land Acquisiton and Others                                                                                                      18.5      15.5
4. Technical Assistance
Resettlement & Environmental MonitoringlEvaluation                                     -            -         -        0.2       0.9       1.1
(0.2)              (0.2)
Consulting Services                                                                    -                               0.6       0.3       0.9
(0.6)              (0.6)
Study Tours & Training                                                                 -            -         -        0.2       0.6       0.8
(0.2)              (0.2)
5. Project Managemnent                                                                                                             1 -  -    1.7  1.7
Total                                                                                     8.3        2572      20.1         6.2    227.9      519.7
(5.8)     (183.2)   (12.7)       (6.2)        -    (207.9)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts tnanced by The Wodd Bank
ka FPMC: Flood Prevention and Mitggano Center
- 81-



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms            0.00      1.20      0.00       0.00       1.10      0.00      4.70       7.00
(0.00)    (1.20)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1 .10)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (2.30)
B. Individuals      0.00      1.00      0.00       0.00      1.70       0.10      0.00       2.80
(0.00)    (1.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (1.70)    (0. 1 0)    (0.00)    (2.80)
Total   0.00      2.20      0.00       0.00      2.80       0.10       4.70      9.80
(0.00)    (2.20)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.80)      (0. 1 0)    (0.00)    (5.10)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 82 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Notes to Table B:
All contracts not subject to the Bank's prior review would be subject to the post review.
All contracts for individual consultants and all single source contact in excess of US$ 50,000 would be subject to the Bankes prior review.
ICB: Intemational Conpetitive Bidding.
NCB: National Competitive Bidding.
SW: Small Works
FA: Force Account
NSP: National Shopping, requiring at least three price quotations.
QCBS: Quality and Cost Based Selection.
CQ: Consultants' Qualifications.
Prior review on NCB procedure for civil works:
1. all contracts > US$ 5,000,000.0
2. the first three NCB bid documents in each province inrespective of value
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works
Major Works                            >10,000                          ICB                             n.a.
Dike rehabilitation and           >200 to <10,000                       NCB                            205.0
cross-dike structures
Other works                              <200                          SW/FA                           none
2. Goods
For O&M, dike monitoring                 >250                           ICB                             8.3
and river modeling;                 >100 to <250                        NCB                            none
Office and survey                        <100                           NSP                            none
equipment                                                                                               none
3. Services
(a) Consulting services
firms                          >100                           QCB                             2.3
<100                           CQ                             none
individuals                     >50                        Quotations                          1.1
<50                      Single source                        0.1
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$216.8 million out
of US$285.6 million or
76%
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
During Project implementation, the Bank will assist MWR/CWRC and the two provinces to ensure that the Project
is carried out smoothly in accordance with the agreed Project objectives. The Bank has extensive experience in
managing this type of project. It will be able to tap into a pool of worldwide technical experts to solve managerial
and technical problems. It has access to higher government levels to raise issues related to procurement,
disbursement and other financial and management aspects of the Project.
- 83 -



Table B-1:   Procurement Packaging
Item                                          MWR and        Hubei        Hunan        Total
CWRC
Civil Works
1. River Bank Protection
Total Value in US$ million                     93.6                                   93.6
Procurement Procedure                          NBF
No. of Contracts                               N/A
Average Size of Contracts                      N/A
2. Dike Rehabilitation and Cross-dike Structures
Total Value in US$ million                     9.8         200.2         45.1        255.1
Procurement Procedure                          NBF         NCB          NCB        NBF/NCB
No. of Contracts                               N/A           27           9            36
Average Size of Contracts in US$ million       N/A          7.4          5.0          6.8
3. Small Civil Works
Total Value in US$ Million                                  15.7         4.0          19.7
Procurement Procedure                                       SW           SW           SW
No. of Contracts                                             85           25          110
Average Size of Contracts in US$ Million                    0.18         0.16         0.18
4. River Modeling
Total Value in US$ Million                     8.6                                    8.6
Procurement Procedure                          NCB                                   NCB
No. of Contracts                                3                                      3
Average Size of Contracts in US$ Million       2.9                                    2.9
5. Resettlement/Site preparation
Total Value in US$ Million                     3.8          72.9         22.2         98.8
- 84 -



Procurement Procedure                        NBF         NBF          NBF         NBF
No. of Contracts                             N/A         N/A          N/A         N/A
Average Size of Contracts in US$ Million     N/A         N/A          N/A
Goods
1. 0 & M Equipment
Total Value in US$ Million                   4.1          7.4         0.5         12.0
Procurement Procedure                      ICB/NCB    ICB/NCB         NCB       ICB/NCB
No. of Contracts                              2            2           5            9
Average Size of Contracts in US$ Million      2.1         3.7         0.1          1.3
ICB -International Competitive Bidding
NCB -National Competitive Bidding
SW--Small Works Contracts
NS - National Shopping
NBF- Non Bank Financed
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 85 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement for civil works will be 65 percent made against eligible payments to contractors for works
executed and for authorized mobilization advances. Disbursement for goods and equipment, including
vehicles, will be at 100 percent of foreign expenditures for direct imports, 100 percent of the ex-factory
costs for locally manufactured items, and 75 percent of expenditures for other items procured locally.
Expenditures for training, study tours will be disbursed at 100 percent and for technical assistance 100
percent against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). See Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds. The
estimated disbursement schedule for the Bank Loan is given on the summary page of the PAD and further
details are provided in the PIP.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
_  Allll_
Civil Works                                171.80                        65%
River Model - CWRC (US$6.6)
Dike Rehabilitation
- Hubei Province (US$140.6)
- Hunan Province (US$24.6)
Civil Works                                21.20                         65%
Roads and Buildings
- Hubei Province (US$11.5)
- Hunan Province (US$1.4)
Grass and Tree Plantation
- Hubei Province (US$6.7)
- Hunan Province (US$1.6)
Goods                                       8.70               100% for CIF, 100% of local
O&M and Dike Monitoring                                 expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 75%
- Hubei Province (US$6.0)                              of local expenditures for other items
- Hunan Province (US$0.4)                                      procured locally
River Modeling & FDPC
- CWRC        (US$2.0)
- MWR         (US$0.3)
Consultants' Services                       5.10                         100%
- Hubei Province (US$1.6)
- Hunan Province (US$0.8)
- CWRC         (US$1.5)
- MWR          (US$1.2)
Research, Training, Study Tours             1.10                         100%
- Hubei Province (US$0.6)
- Hunan Province (US$0.2)
- CWRC           -
- MWR          (US$0.3)
Total Project Costs                        207.90
Interest during construction
Front-end fee         2.10             Loan amount = US$210.0 million
Total                                      210.00
- 86 -



Special account:
To facilitate disbursement a Special Account (SA) in US Dollars will be opened at a commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank. The SA will be opened by the Ministry of Finance (MOF), with an initial deposit of
US$9.0 million and an authorized allocation of US$18.0 million. The authorized allocation is
approximately equal to the Bank's projected expenditure for four months of Project implementation.
Applications for replenishment for the SA would be submitted monthly or when the account is drawn down
to 50 percent of its authorized allocation, whichever comes first. The Provincial Bureau of Finance will
make payments within 2 weeks after receipt and review of withdrawal applications. The lower level FB
will pass on the funds promptly, and no later than 2 weeks after the funds have been received.
Retro-active flnancing  To avoid delays in the start-up of the Project, retro-active Bank financing of
US$4.0 million is recommended to cover eligible expenditures incurred between December 1, 1999 and the
date of the signing of the Loan and Project Agreements. The agreed activities eligible for rectro-active
financing have been agreed during Project appraisal and are detailed in the PIP. The procurement
procedures for the agreed activities have been agreed and the bidding documents reviewed.
- 87 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHINA: Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       12                            10
First Bank mission (identification)              02/12/99                      02/12/99
Appraisal mission departure                      01/15/2000                    12/10/99
Negotiations                                     04/24/2000                    05/02/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    09/01/2000
Prepared by:
1. Government of China, Ministry of Water Resources and Changjiang Water Resources Commission
2. Govermnent of Hubei
3. Government of Hunan.
Preparation assistance:
Policy and Human Resources Development Fund (PHRD), Government of Japan
Dutch Consultant Trust Fund (DCTF), Government of The Netherlands
World Bank Budget (BB)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Nme                                                         _ ic
Daniel J. Gunaratnam               Task Manager
Bert L. Kramer                     Co-Task Manager
Lang Seng Tay                      Water Resources/Flood Control
Li Xiaokai                         Water Resources
Dirk De Bruin                      River Management
*Chen Charng Ning                 Dike/River bank Protection Specialist
*Chen Zuyu                        Land Slides and Sedimentation
*Krystian Pilarczyk               River Hydraulics and Dike Engineering
*Wu Changyu                       Dike Geo-technical Expert
*Peter Ko                         Flood Forecasting/River Mechanics Expert
*Dale Lille and *Chen Jinrong     Flood Forecasting
*Anne Nicolson and *Yao Songling    Resettlement Specialists
*Collin Green                     Flood Hazard Economics
*Kumar Mohit and *Xie Qingtoa     Environmental Specialists
*Hu Shunong                       Cost and Procurement
*Wu Ning                          Financial Specialist
*Harvey Ludwig                    Principal Environmental Specialist
Yu Youhua                          Financial Management
Nicolette K. Dewitt                Legal Advisor
Clifford Garstang                  Legal Advisor
Cecilia Belita and Yinfeng Zhi     Task Team Assistants
* Indicates consultant hired by the Bank
- 88 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CHINA: Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Hubei and Hunan Provinces, MWR and CWRC Reports:
1.     Feasibility Study Report on Yangtze River Dike Strengthening Project, Jingnan (Jingzhou) Section,
prepared by the Planning, Design and Research Institute of CWRC;
2.     Feasibility Study Report on Yangtze River Dike Strengthening Project, Bapu (Erzhou) Section, prepared
by the Planning, Design and Research Institute of CWRC;
3.     Feasibility Study Report on Yangtze River Dike Strengthening Project, Huanggang Section, prepared by
the Planning, Design and Research Institute of CWRC;
4.     Feasibility Study Report on Yangtze River Dike Strengthening Project, Wuhan (Urban Zone) Section,
prepared by Hubei Reconnaissance, Planning and Design Institute for Water Conservancy and Hydropower,
Wuhan Urban Flood Control Design Institute and Wuhan City Water Planning and Design Institute;
5.     Feasibility Study Report on Yangtze River Dike Strengthening Project, Wuhan (Suburb Zone) Section,
prepared by Hubei Reconnaissance, Planning and Design Institute for Water Conservancy and Hydropower,
Wuhan Urban Flood Control Design Institute and Wuhan City Water Planning and Design Institute;
6.     Feasibility Study Report on the World Bank Financed Yangtze River Dike Strengthening Project, Hubei
Section, prepared by Hubei Reconnaissance, Planning and Design Institute for Water Conservancy and
Hydropower and Wuhan City Water Planning and Design Institute;
7.     Project Implementation Plan, the World Bank Financed Yangtze River Dike Strengthening Project, Hubei
Province, prepared by Hubei Reconnaissance, Planning and Design Institute for Water Conservancy and
Hydropower;
8.     Feasibility Study Report on the World Bank Financed Yangtze River Dike Strengthening Project, Hunan
Section, prepared by Hunan Reconnaissance, Planning and Design Institute for Water Conservancy and
Hydropower and Wuhan City Water Planning and Design Institute;
9.     Project Implementation Plan, the World Bank Financed Yangtze River Dike Strengthening Project,
Hunan Province, prepared by Hunan Reconnaissance, Planning and Design Institute for Water Conservancy and
Hydropower;
10.    Proposal for Flood Control and Disaster Mitigation Engineering Technology Research Center, Ministry of
Water Resources;
11.    Proposal on Flood Control River Models, CWRC, March 2000;
12.    Environment Impact Assessment Report for the Yangtze Flood Control Project, Research Institute for
Yangtze Water Resources Protection, Hunan Water Conservancy and Hydropower Survey & Design Institute,
Hubei Water Conservancy and Hydropower Survey & Design Institute;
13.    Supplement to the Environment Impact Assessment Report for the Yangtze Flood Control Project,
Research Institute for Yangtze Water Resources Protection, Hunan Water Conservancy and Hydropower Survey &
Design Institute, Hubei Water Conservancy and Hydropower Survey & Design Institute;
14     Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project, Resettlement Action Plan, December 1999, Hunan Water
Conservancy and Hydropower Survey & Design Institute, Hubei Water Conservancy and Hydropower Survey &
Design Institute, Jiangxi Water Resource Planning and Design Institute, Draft Report;
15     Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project, Resettlement Action Plan, December 1999, Hunan Province, Hunan
Water Conservancy and Hydropower Survey & Design Institute, Draft Report;
16     Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project, Resettlement Action Plan, December 1999, Hubei Province, Hubei
Water Conservancy and Hydropower Survey & Design Institute, Draft Report;
17     Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project, Resettlement Action Plan, March 2000, Hunan Water Conservancy
and Hydropower Survey & Design Institute, Hubei Water Conservancy and Hydropower Survey & Design Institute,
Jiangxi Water Resource Planning and Design Institute, Final Report.
- 89 -



B. Bank Staff Assessments
In the course of Project preparation and appraisal various written contributions have been made by Bank
staff and Bank consultants. These reports can be found in the Project file in the World Bank Office,
Beijing. The PAD has extensively drawn from these contributions.
C. Other
None
*Including electronic files
-90 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHINA: Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                     IBRD       IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd
P040513       1996 China                      2ND HENAN PROV HWY                               210.00       0.00       0.00     146.62      75.96      0.00
P003619       1996 China                      2ND INLAND WATERWAYS                             123.00       0.00       0.00     113.92      37.26      0.00
P003652       1996 China                      2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY                             210.00       0.00       0.00      92.41      54.75      0.00
P058844       2000 China                      3RD HENAN PROV HWY                               150.00       0.00       0.00     150.00       0.00      0.00
P051856       1999 China                      ACCNTG REFORM & DEV                               27.40       5.61       0.00      30.88      12.39      0.00
P003559       1993 China                      AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI                               0.00     115.00       0.00       4.37      -3.21      0.00
P050036       1999 China                      ANHUI PROVINCIAL HWY                             200.00       0.00       0.00     171.58      13.98      0.00
P003563       1996 China                      ANIMAL FEED                                      150.00       0.00       0.00     133.27     130.40     56,61
P049665       1999 China                      ANNINGVALLEYAG.DEV                                90.00      30.00       0.00      97.35       1.48      0.00
P003602       1996 China                      CH-HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                       125.00      25.00      28.32      76.87      69.26      3.54
P003603       1995 China                      CHiNA-ENTERPRISE HOUSING & SOC SEC REF           275.00      75.00      20.00     154.42     153.40     16.72
P057352       1999 China                      CHINA-FOURTH RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT           16.00      30.00       0.00      44.15       3.76      0.00
P036414       1996 China                      CHINA-GUANGXI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT           72.00      20.00       0.00      86.11      14.33      0.00
P056491       1998 China                      CHINA-HEBEI EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION              0.00      28.40       0.00       0.43      -7.63      0.00
P003598       1995 China                      CHINA-LIAONING ENVIRONMENT PROJECT               110.00       0.00       0.00      45.66      44.34      0.00
P003637       1997 China                      CHINA-NATIONAL RURAL WATER III                     0.00      70.00       0.00      57.34      25.85     15.47
P040185       1998 China                      CHINA-SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                95.00       0.00       0.00      79.99      41.33      0.00
P003586       1994 China                      CHINA-SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT               160.00       0.00       0.00      54.64      54.17      0.00
P003646       1996 China                      CHINA-SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT II               250.00       0.00       0.00     123.99      98.37      0.00
P043933       1999 China                      CHINA-SICHUAN URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT          150.00       2.00       0.00     152.02       4.70      0.00
P003580       1993 China                      CHINA-SO. JIANGSU ENVMT PROTECTION PROJ          250.00       0.00       0.00       3.25       2.59      0.00
P003566       1992 China                      CHINA-TIANJIN URBAN DEV & ENVMT PROJECT            0.00     100.00       0.00       9.23       6.44      4.20
P003599       1996 China                      CHINA-YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                 125.00      25.00       0.00     130.46      51.25      -3.43
P003473       1993 China                      CHINA-ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES DEVELOPMENT             0.00     110.00       0.00      13.07      13.01      3.33
P036952       1997 China                      CN-BASIC ED. IV                                    0.00      65.00       0.00      23.29      -9.47      0.00
P036950       1996 China                      CN-BASIC ED. POOR III                              0.00     100.00       0.00       1.03       2.51      0.00
P003636       1995 China                      CN-BASIC EDUC IN POOR& MINORITY AREA II            0.00     100.00       0.00       0.99       3.04      0.00
P003566       1998 China                      CN-BASIC HEALTH (HLTH8)                            0.00      85.00       0.00      74.02      11.15      0.00
P003646       1996 China                      CN-CHONGQING IND POL CT                          170.00       0.00     153.99      15.61     142.10     11.94
P003589       1996 China                      CN-DISEASE PREVENTION (HLTH7)                      0.00     100.00       0.00      34.51      40.53      0.00
P036953       1999 China                      CN-HEALTH IX                                      10.00      50.00       0.00      55.65       2.29      0.00
P046051       1999 China                      CN-HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                            20.00      50.00       0.00      64.39      16.14      0.00
P003624       1992 China                      CN-INFECTIOUS DISEASES (HLTH5)                     0.00     129.60       0.00      22.30      18.39     18.35
P037156       1995 China                      CN-IODINE DEFICIENCY DISORDERS CONTROL             7.00      20.00       7.00       0.31       9.98      2.98
P034618       1996 China                      CN-LABOR MARKET DEV.                              10.00      20.00       0.00      20.41      22.33      0.00
P003634       1995 China                      CN-MATERNAL CHILD HEALT(HLTH6)                     0.00      90.00       0.00      12.53      15.30      0.00
P058308       1999 China                      CN-PENSION REFORM PJT                              0.00       5.00       0.00       4.98       2.91      0.00
P003502       1994 China                      CN-RURAL HEALTH MANPOWER (HLTH4)                   0.00     110.00       0.00      11.16      10.30      0.00
P003635       1997 China                      CN-VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                           10.00      20.00       0.00       5.57       0.37      0.00
P003653       1999 China                      CONTAINERTRANSPORT                                71.00       0.00       0.00      69.69      49.69      0.00
P051736       1998 China                      E. CHINAIJIANGSU PWR                             250.00       0.00       0.00     231.00     190.64     52.86
P003647       1995 China                      ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                                0.00      10.00       0.00       5.09       5.76      0.00
P003606       1998 China                      ENERGY CONSERVATION                               63.00       0.00       0.00      60.96       6.52      0.00
P060270       1999 China                      ENTERPRISE REFORM LN                               0.00       5.00       0.00       4.97       3.34      0.00
- 91 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions            and actual
disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA    Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P003632       1993 China                      ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                               0.00      50.00       0.00       9.03       9.67       8.06
P003507       1996 China                      ERTAN HYDRO 11                                   400.00       0.00       0.00      11.24      -0.51       0.00
P003623       1993 China  -                   FINANCIAL SECTOR TA                                0.00      60.00       0.00      13.55      15.47      10.08
P036041       1995 China                      FISCAL & TAX REF. &                               25.00      25.00       0.00      39.68      41.95       4.41
P003557       1994 China                      FOREST RESOURCE DEV                                0.00     200.00       0.00      16.41       6.18     -39.26
P046952       1998 China                      FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                             100.00     100.00       0.00     171.41      -3.91      20.34
P051705       1999 China                      FUJIAN 11 HWY                                    200.00       0.00       0.00     198.00      21.34       0.00
P003626       1994 China                      FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                              140.00       0.00       0.00      46.42      45.09      27.56
P003594       1996 China                      GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                               60.00      90.00       0.00     111.27      36.63       0.00
P003627       1993 China                      GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                             325.00     165.00       0.00     246.92     249.67      49.20
P003518       1993 China                      GUANGDONG PROV. TRANSPORT                        240.00       0.00       0.00       0.62       0.62       0.28
P058843       2000 China                      GUANGXI HWY Project                              200.00       0.00       0.00     200.00       0.00       0.00
P003614       1998 China                      GUANGZ. CITY CRT.TRP                             200.00       0.00       0.00     142.92      47.94       0.00
P051888       1999 China                      GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                              80.00      20.00       0.00      92.22      15.39       0.00
P003504       1994 China                      HEBEUHENAN NATIONAL                              380.00       0.00       0.00      16.22      16.22       0.00
P038988       1997 China                      HEILONGJIANG ADP                                 120.00       0.00       0.00      68.06      18.64       0.00
P003581       1993 China                      HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT                            120.00       0.00       0.00       6.36       6.36       0.00
P035698       1998 China                      HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                             300.00       0.00       0.00     300.00      65.50       0.00
P003654       1997 China                      HUNANIGUANG HWY2-NH2                             400.00       0.00       0.00     266.32     126.32       0.00
P049700       1998 China                      LAIL-2                                           300.00       0.00       0.00     229.68      29.32       0.00
P003493       1995 China                      INLAND WATERWAYS                                 210.00       0.00       0.00      35.81       6.41       0.00
P041890       1999 China                      LIAONING URBTRANSP                               160.00       0.00       0.00     141.50      30.50       0.00
P003540       1994 China                      LOESS PLATEAU                                      0.00     150.00       0.00      14.16     -1525        0.00
P056216       1999 China                      LOESS PLATEAU II                                 100.00      50.00       0.00     142.50      25.67       0.00
P036949       1998 China                      NAT.HWY 3-HUBEI                                  250.00       0.00       0.00     194.32      10.99       0.00
P041268       1999 China                      NAT.HWY4-HUBEVHUNAN                              350.00       0.00       0.00     336.50      16.00       0.00
P003590       1997 China                      OINBAMTS. POVTY RED                               30.00     150.00       0.00     115.20      45.64       0.00
P003570       1993 China                      RAILWAY VI                                       420.00       0.00       0.00      44.56      44.56     -15.68
P003571       1995 China                      RAILWAYS VIl                                     400.00       0.00      29.00     303.81     249.81      38.97
P003595       1994 China                      RED SOILS It DEVELOP                               0.00     150.00       0.00      30.88      20.46       5.00
P003592       1993 China                      REF. INSTL& PREINV                                 0.00      50.00       0.00      13.61      14.14       0.00
P046829       1999 China                      RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                     100.00       0.00       0.00     100.00       0.00       0.00
P003638       1996 China                      SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                              80.00      20.00       9.40      49.77      28.39       0.00
P003622       1994 China                      SHANGHAI MTP II                                  150.00       0.00       0.00       3.89       3.89       0.00
P044485       1997 China                      SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                              400.00       0.00       0.00     361.22      43.26       0.00
P003569       1996 China                      SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG Hi                             260.00       0.00       7.75      78.35      54.78      46.77
P003649       1996 China                      SHANXI POVERTYALLEV                                0.00     100.00       0.00      25.87       7.29       0.00
P003585       1995 China                      SHENYANG IND. REFORM                             175.00       0.00       0.00      66.21      49.61       0.00
P003609       1994 China                      SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION                   255.00       0.00       0.00      79.22      58.72       0.00
P036947       1995 China                      SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                             270.00       0.00       0.00     112.07     111.27       6.45
P045264       2000 China                      SMALLHLDR CATTLE DEV                              93.50       0.00       0.00      93.50       5.80       0.00
P003593       1994 China                      SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                                 0.00     205.00       0.00      14.37      -2.34       0.00
P003639       1995 China                      SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                              47.50     200.00       0.00      59.02      49.40       0.00
P003591       1998 China                      STATE FARMS COMMERCI                             150.00       0.00       0.00      90.93      -3.40       0.00
P003539       1998 China                      SUST COAST RES DEV                                100.00      0.00       0.00      81.86       3.53       0.00
- 92 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions          and actual
disbursements
Project ID    FY  Borrower                     Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Revd
P003597       1993 China                    TAIHU 6ASIN FLOOD CO                            100.00    100.00        0.00      16.36,    12.01      -0.77
P046563       1998 China                    TARIM BASIN It                                   90.00     60.00        0.00     126.37,    26.60       0.00
P042299       1999 China                    TEC COOP CREDIT IV                               10.00     35.00        0.00      42.01,     -2.10      0.00
P003600       1995 China                    TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                            200.00      0.00        0.00      89.92,    63.50       0.00
P003633       1994 China                    TELECOMMUNICATIONS                              250.00      0.00       30.00      13.80,    43.80       8.20
P003616       1993 China                    TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                             300.00      0.00        0.00  61.23, 4.69,    53.03     0.00
P003533       1993 China                    TWAJIN IND. 11                                  150.00      0.00       40.35     320.00,    43.38       3.19
P056424      2000 China                     TONGBAI PUMPED STORA                            320.00      0.00        0.00     191.99,     0.00       0.00
P045788       1998 China                    TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY                              230,00      0.00        0.00     328.15.    57.03       0.00
P003650       1997 China                    TUOKETUO POWERIINNER                            400.00      0.00       24.00     280.10,    234.95     22.66
P036405       1997 China                    WANJIAZHAIWATERTRA                              400.00      0.00        0.00     158.61,    76.10       0.00
P046564       1999 China                    WESTERN POVERTY RED                              60.00    100.00        0.00     208.02,    22.07       0.00
P034081       1997 China                    XIAOLANGOI MULTI. If                            430.00      0.00        0.00  0.25,17.59,    132.09     0.00
P003562       1994 China                    XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE                         460,00      0.00        0.00      14.86,     4.78       0.00
P003644       1994 China                    XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                           0.00    110.00        0.00     202.48,    10.95       0.00
P003612       1995 China                    XINJIANG HIGHWAY I                              150.00      0.00        0.00  9.26, 37.37,  14.86       0.00
P003643       1997 China                    XINJIANG HWY II                                 300.00      0.00        0.00      41.75,    106.82      0.00
P003596       1995 China                    YANGTZE BASIN WATER                             100.00    110.00        0.00     101.17,     -4.60      0.00
P063123       1999 China                    YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGY                             40.00     40.00        0.00      12.88     16.68       1.67
P003641       1994 China                    YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                            350.00      0.00        0.00                41.55       0,00
P003642       1995 China                    ZHEJIANG POWER OEVT                             400,00      0.00        0.00                19.28       0.00
P003534       1992 China                    ZHEJIANG PROV TRANSP                            220.00      0.00        0.00                12.88      12.55
Total:   15940.40    3955.61      349.81    9752.81   4054.88    392.25
- 93 -



CHINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
30-Apr-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1999              Bank of Shanghai              0.00   21.76    0.00    0.00    0.00   21.76    0.00    0.00
1996              Beijing Honnel                3.93    0.50    0.00    3.85    3.93    0.50    0.00    3.85
2023               CIG Holdings PLC              0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              CIG Port Holding              0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1998              Caltex Ocean                 21.00    0.00    0.00   45.00   21.00    0.00    0.00   45.00
1998              Chengdu Chemical              0.00    3.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              Chengxin-IBCA                 0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00
1987/92/94        China Bicycles                0.00    0.95    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.95    0.00    0.00
1994              China Walden IV               0.00    4.63    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.63    0.00    0.00
1994              China Walden Mgt              0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00
1994              Dalian Glass                  0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00
1999              Dujiangyan                   25.59    0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              Dupont Suzhou                20.25    4.15    0.00   36.40   20.25    4.15    0.00   36.40
1994              Dynarnic Fund                 0.00   12.35    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.70    0.00    0.00
1999              Hansom                        0.00   16.10    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.10    0.00    0.00
1996              Jingyang                     40.00    0.00    0.00  100.00   40.00    0.00    0.00  100.00
1998              Leshan Scana                  6.10    1.35    0.00    0.00    4.00    1.35    0.00    0.00
1996              Nanjing Kumho                 10.71    3.81    0.00   30.45   10.71    3.81    0.00   30.45
1995              Newbridge Inv.                0.00    2.13    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.13    0.00    0.00
1997              Ningbo                        0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
1997              Orient Finance                13.33    0.00    0.00   16.67   13.33    0.00    0.00   16.67
1997              PTP Hubei                    12.63    0.00    0.00   25.38   12.63    0.00    0.00   25.38
1994/97           PTP Leshan                    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              Pacific Ports                 0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00
1998              Rabobank SHFC                 2.03    0.00    0.00    2.03    2.03    0.00    0.00    2.03
1998              Shanghai Krupp               30.00    0.00    0.00   68.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999              Shanxi                        19.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              Shenzhen PCCP                 3.76    0.99    0.00    0.00    3.76    0.99    0.00    0.00
1995              Suzhou PVC                   20.17    2.48    0.00   20.35   20.17    2.48    0.00   20.35
1998              WIT                           5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              Weihai Weidongri              3.61    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.61    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              Yantai Cement                11.43    1.95    0.00    6.10   11.43    1.95    0.00    6.10
1998              Zhen Jing                     0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      251.54   91.26    0.00  385.03  174.35   83.41    0.00  286.23
- 94 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
2000               BOS RI                             0.00      0.00   3841.00      0.00
2000               CIG Zhapu                       6000.00   5000.00      0.00      0.00
1998               Chengdu Chemical               7400.00      0.00       0.00   8600.00
1997               Chinefarge                    12800.00      0.00       0.00  20000.00
1998               Orient Fin A Inc               3333.33      0.00       0.00      0.00
1997               PTP Holdings                      0.00      0.00   1500.00       0.00
2000               PTP Holdings II                    0.00      0.00     33.00      0.00
1998               PTP Hubei BLINC                   0.00      0.00       0.00   1500.00
2000               SBCF I                             0.00      0.00  15000.00      0.00
2000               SBLAV                              0.00      0.00  15000.00      0.00
2000               Shizuishan Carbn               6300.00       0.00   1700.00   6000.00
1998               XIB                           50000.00      0.00  20000.00       0.00
1998               Zhen Jing                      4500.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:     90333.33   5000.00  57074.00  36100.00
- 95 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHINA: Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project
East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Asia &      Low-
China    Pacific   income       Development diamond*
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                      1,238.6      1,817     3,515                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                      750        990        520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       928.9      1,802     1,844
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                           1.0        1.2       1.7
Labor force (%)                                          1.3        1.6       1.9      GNP                               Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                                  capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national povertV line)      6
Urban Population (% of total population)                  33        35         31
Life expectancv at birth (years)                          70        69         63
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)                  32        37         69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                16         20        ..                 Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                    83         77        74
Illiteracv (% of population age 15+)                      17         15        32
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-ape population)    120       117        108             China       Low-income group
Male                                                   120       119        113
Female                                                 120       118        103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                            172.3    268.2      902.0     960.9
Gross domestic investmentGDP                   28.5     36.1       38.2      38.8                      Trade
Exports of aoods and services/GDP               4.8     13.6       23.0      19.1
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                     29.0     36.2       42.6      43.4
Gross national savings/GDP                    29.0      36.2       41.5      41.4
Current account balance/GDP                     0.2      0.1        3.8       3.4      Domestic                     Iny
Interest pavments/GDP                            ..      0.4        0.6       0.7      Savings                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                                   ..    13.2        1.3       16.2       avigs
Total debt service/exports                       ..      9.6        9.8       9.5
Present value of debtGDP                         ..       ..       14.9
Present value of debt/exports                    ..       ..       62.7
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   9.8      10.3      8.8        7.8       7.0          -China          Low-income group
GNP per capita                        8.5       8.8      7.4        6.5       6.2
Exports of goods and services        18.4      14.4     23.1        4.6       4.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            30
Agriculture                                    29.4     26.8       18.7      18.0
Industry                                      47,1      43.9       49.5      49.2    20
Manufacturina                                31.1     34.4       37.3       36.8    10
Services                                       23.4     29.3       32.1      32.8
Private consumption                            63.4     51.3       45.7      44.5             93   94   9C   96   97   98
General government consumption                  7.5     12.5       11.6      11.9                      GDI    -O-GOP
Imports of goods and services                   4.2     13.5       18.5      14.3
1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of expons and imports (%)
(averagQe annual growth)
Aariculture                                     6.4      4.4        3'5       3'5    40
Industrv                                       10.9     14.1       10.8       9.2    30
Manufacturing                                11.4      13.4       9.9        8.9    2
Services                                       12.7      8.6        8.2       7.6
Private consumption                             9.7      8.6        7.7       6.7
General govemment consumption                   9.0      9.9        8.2       8.4      0
Gross domestic investment                      10.7     11.7        7.6       7.6             93   94   95   96   97   98
Imports of goods and services                  19.2     12.5       12.7       1.5                    Exports      :  Imports
Gross national product                         10.0     10.0        8.5       7.4
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-aroup average. If data are missina, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 96 -



China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997     1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                    30
(% change)
Consumer prices                                 ..     7.3       2.8      -0.8    20
Implicit GDP deflator                         1.6      5.1       1.2      -1.3     10
Government finance                                                                  0                  I
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                        93   94   95   96   97   96
Current revenue                                ..    21.5       12.0      12.8    -10
Current budget balance                         ..      4.2       0.6      -2.2                   GDP deflator    *  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -2.1       -1.5      -4.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987        1997     1998       Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ,.  39,437   182,792   183,757    2r0,000
Food                                         ..   4,781    11,075    10,619
Fuel                                          ..   4,544      6,987    5,181     1     *0.000
Manufactures                                 ..  26,206   158,838   163.157
Total imports (cif)                            ..  43,216   142,370   140,166      100,000
Food                                         ..   3,055       6,308    6,463
Fuel and energy                              ..    539    10,306       6,773
Capital goods                                ..  21,110    57,930    61,915 o
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..      75         95        89            92  93  94  00  96  97  98
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..     75         92       89                  a Exports     U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..       99       104       100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987        1997     1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio(%)
Exports of goods and services               8,550   39,120   207,251   207,589     4
Imports of goods and services               8,148   38,880   166,754  165,900
Resource balance                             402       240    40,497    41,689     2-
Netincome                                      82    -215   -11,097  -13,428
Net current transfers                         -70      224     5,144    4,278      0
92   _    94   gs  ~~96   97   96
Current account balance                      414      249    34,544    32,540      2
Financing items (net)                        -320    4,534     1,313   -26,114
Changes in net reserves                       -94   -4,783   -35,857    -6,426       -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..  22,500   147,000
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)              1.9      4.5        8.3      8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997     1998
(US$ millions)                                                                     Compositlon of total debt, 1998 (USS mllions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..  35,340   146,697  156,105
IBRD                                         ..   1,427      8,239     9,610
IDA                                                1,330     7,830     8,693                        A: 9,610
G: 29,473         B 8,693
Total debt service                             ..   3,852    18,445    13,009                                   D: 3,946
IBRD                                          ..    208        858      940
IDA                                          ..      12         81       97                                      862
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              ..    209         228
Official creditors                           ..    626       4,315     2,282
Private creditors                            ..   5,462      8,134      916
Foreign direct investment                    ..   2,314    44,236    45,000
Portfolio equity                             ..       0      8,457     1,153                F: 82,521
World Bank program
Commitments                                  ..   1,306      2,425     2,636     A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                ..    702       2,275     2,061     B - IDA    D- Other multilateral   F- Private
Principal repayments                         ..      97        377      434      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                    ..    605       1,898     1,627
Interest payments                            ..    124         562      602
Net transfers                                ..    482       1,335     1,024
Development Economics                                                                                                 9/2/99
- 97 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
YANGTZE DIKE STRENGTHENING PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
SUMMARY
A: INTRODUCTION
The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) report for the Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project (YDSP)
was prepared by the Research Institute for Yangtze Water Resources Protection (RIYWRP) with assistance
from corresponding Water and Hydropower Design institutes in Hunan and Hubei provinces. World Bank
staff and consultants also assisted with the preparation of the EIA. The EIA is based on the updated
provincial EIA reports prepared by the provincial design institutes mentioned above for the Project
components in each province. The provincial EIAs have been approved by the Provincial EPB's and SEPA.
The EIA for the Project meets the requirements of both the Government of China and the World Bank. The
EIA takes into account the entire spectrum of environmental effects that could result from the Project,
including effects on: (i) physical natural resources; (ii) natural ecological resources; (iii) economic
development; (iv) quality of life values; and (v) global environmental issues, as they apply to Project
components in each of the three provinces. The EIA delineates all "Significant Environmental Issues"
(SEIs) affected by the Project, describes the potential for each SEI to cause adverse environmental effects if
not controlled, and describes recommended control measures, called "Environmental Protection Measures"
(EPMs). The EPMs include: (i) mitigation measures, to lessen the magnitude of adverse impact; and (ii)
measures to offset any residual adverse effect not solved by mitigation, so that there will be no significant
net adverse effect. In some instances, the EIA recommends a third kind of EPM, namely enhancement
measures, for those situations where a small additional investment would yield valuable environmental
benefits. An overall Envirommental Management Plan (EMP) has been developed as an integral part of the
EIA, which will be carried out during Project implementation. The EMP includes: (i) establishment of an
Environmental Management Office (EMO) in each province; (ii) establishment of an international panel of
environmental experts; and (iii) implementation of environmental monitoring and training programns.
B:      PROJECT DESCRIPTION
B-1:    Project Components
The Project is an environmental protection project which includes: (i) civil engineering works for
rehabilitation of the river banks, dikes and cross-dike structures; (ii) a resettlement program; (iii)
environmental protection measures; and (iv) other components including flood forecasting and flood
emergency systems and programs to provide assistance during floods. The civil engineering works have
been described in detail in Annex 2 and detailed description of the resettlement action program is given in
Annex 12. The following paragraphs summarize the enviromnental protection components and project
altematives.
- 98 -



B-2:    Environmental Protection Components
The following environmental protection components have been incorporated in the Project design:
*   forest and grass planting: some 680,000 m2 of wave-breaking forest and 7,250,000 m 2of
erosion prevention grasses will be planted on the dike slopes, costing about Yuan 33
million;
*   resurfacing of borrow areas following completion of works; and
*   schistosomiasis control measures including filling borrow areas, construction of snail
sinks, and supply of snail nets;
In addition, environmental protection measures in the civil works contracts will be: (i) water, air, noise, and
solid waste pollution control; (ii) protection of workers' health; (iii) prevention of soil erosion; (iv)
protection of aquatic ecological features and migration birds; (v) protection of cultural relics; and (vi)
control of land use.
B-3:    Project Alternatives
The possible alternatives considered for the Project include: (i) no-project (do nothing ) alternative; (ii)
flood diversion and storage project to enlarge flood diversion areas and increase flood storage capacities;
and (iii) higher dikes alternative.
No-proiect   Detailed analyses shows that many reaches of the dikes, of which some are hundreds of
years old, have serious defects such as: weak and dangerous sections, poor and permeable foundations,
and aged cross-dike structures. If the dikes are not improved (doing-nothing alternative), dike failures
are likely to occur in many places, resulting in serious flood disasters with many people killed and huge
economic losses as was the case in 1954 or 1998 when serious flooding occurred.
Increasing diversion and storage capacities    A proposed diversion and storage project, with a total
storage capacity in excess of 50 billion m, depends on present dikes and the upper basin reservoirs to
play their roles to hold the flood waters as they occurred during the 1954 flood. In addition, most of the
diversion and storage facilities constructed after 1954 have never been used for such purposes. As a
result agriculture and many industries have rapidly developed in the areas earmarked for diversion and
storage of flood water. In addition, the population in these areas has increased rapidly. It will be
difficult to transfer them to other areas and economic losses will be prohibitive. Therefore, this
alternative is also considered not feasible.
Higher dikes     Analysis shows that the maximum probable flood peak level would be 2-3 m higher
than the actual water level of the 1954 and 1998 flood levels. If the dikes are to be raised by 2-3
meters, it is estimated that: (i) 7.6 billion m3 of earth will be needed; (ii) more than 1.60 million mu
farmland will be occupied; (iii) and about 1.0 million people need to be resettled. Besides, thousands of
culverts, pump stations, and bridges will need to be reconstructed. Furthermore, as the geological
foundations of many dike sections are poor, such sections may breach in case of high water levels,
which of course will cause calamities. Therefore, this alternative is considered too costly to be
implemented and is not expected to reduce dike failure risks. Therefore, the present Project, as a key
component of the an overall Yangtze Flood Control Master Plan, is necessary and is the only feasible
alternative.
- 99 -



B-4:    Project Economics
The total Project cost is estimated at US$545.5 million including financing charges, of which about
US$335.5 million will be provided from local counterpart funding sources and US$210.0 million from the
Bank loan. A benefit-cost analysis was carried out and the following benefit streams were considered:
*   reductions in flood losses arising from higher and stronger dikes (Yuan 14.6 billion);
*   reductions in flood fighting costs (Yuan 0.2 billion);
*   reductions, in some instances, in the costs of using detention basins (Yuan 0.2 billion); and
*   reductions in dike operation and maintenance costs (Yuan 1.8 billion).
Two baseline conditions were considered: with and without the Three Gorges Project (TGP), because the
Project is scheduled to be completed before the TGP becomes operational. The key indicators of the
economic analysis are shown in Table I below:
Table 1: Summary of Project Economic Analysis
Province    Net Present Value  Benifit-Cost Ratio   Economic Internal
(in Yuan Billion)                     Rate of Return (%)
Hunan             2.6                 2.3                  25.0
Hubei             9.4                 4.3                 53.1
C:   ENVIRONMENTAL SETTING
C-1:    Environmental Study Area
The Environmental Study Area (ESA) for the Project includes four sub-areas: (i) areas protected; (ii)
construction areas, project affected river reaches, and downstreamn areas.
C-2:   Land Use
The ESA is mainly located in the plain of the Middle and Lower Reaches of the river, which consists of
flat terrain with fertile soil, a warm and humid climate, plenty of water, and good conditions for irrigation.
As a result, irrigated agriculture has been highly developed with about 86% of land suitable for cultivation.
Other land use includes forest land, lakes, urban and residential areas, and unused land. Due to the high
population density, the amount of land per capita in the area is lower than the average for China.
C-3:    Natural Physical Resources
The natural physical resources of the ESA include topography/landform, geology, climate, hydrology,
floods, surface water quality, air quality and noise. The landforms in the ESA include accumulated plain,
low mountains and hills, river terrace, and beaches and sand/clay bars. The Project is located in an area
with earthquake intensity equal or lower than Grade VI except for the Yongji embankment area where the
earthquake intensity is Grade VII. The ESA belongs to the subtropical monsoon climatic area with rich
precipitation (average annual 1,000 -1,600 mm). The Project is along the middle and lower reaches of the
Yangtze, with mean annual runoff of 451 billion m at Yichang gauging station and 894 billion m at
Datong gauging station and mean annual flows of 14,300 mr/s and 28,300 m3/s respectively. The historic
maximum flows at the two gauging stations are 71,100 mn/s and 92,600 m 3/s and minimum 2,770m 3/s and
- 100 -



4,620 m3/s respectively. The Yangzte is a river with frequent and serious floods, once in every IO years on
average, which usually causes hundreds or even thousands of people killed, millions of people homeless,
and countless economic loss. Table 3.4-7 shows the estimated losses caused by floods in the last 100
years.
C-4:    Natural Ecological Resources
The Project area is a highly developed area with limited natural forests and terrestrial wildlife. The natural
ecological resources in the ESA that might be affected by the Project include: (i) fish species; (ii) migration
birds area; and (iii) and wetlands. With respect to fish species, there are some 2 1 0 species in the middle and
lower Yangtze river system and 108 species in the Yangtze mainstream. Five (5) state protected species can
be found in the river reaches of the Project: (i) Chinese River Dolphin; (ii) Chinese Finless Porpoise; (iii)
White Sturgeon; (iv) Chinese Sturgeon; and (v) and Chinese Sucker. Many lakes in the ESA such as
Poyang Lake are migration birds areas which are generally far from the Project's construction areas. In
1998, a new migration bird area --- the Saicheng Lake in Jiangxi Province --- was formed when the
following five state protected birds were found there: Grus leucogeranus, Grus mamacha, Grus vipio, and
Anser albifrons, Cygnus columbianus. With respect to wetlands, there are 15 significant wetland areas in
the ESA of which only the Honghu Lake is close to the Project construction area.
C-5:    Economic Resources
The Project protected area is a highly developed area with complete infrastructures, abundant water
resources, well irrigated land with high levels of production, and powerful industry bases. The industry in
this area includes a number of the nation's top-ranking key enterprises. With a well developed agricultural
economy, qualified technical professionals, good education system, and well developed key industries, the
area holds an important position in the economy and social development of China.
C-6:    Quality of Life
Quality of life situation in the ESA mainly refers to family income levels, public health conditions, and
cultural values including relics and scenery. As mentioned above, the Project region is a highly developed
area, with a well developed agriculture and industry base. The mean annual salary of urban and rural
residents is in the range of 4,000 - 9,000 yuan and the net income per capita per annum is in the range of
2,000 - 3000 yuan. The average housing area ranges around 10 - 20 m' for urban residents and 25 - 36 m
for rural residents. With respect to public health, there are quite complete medical care systems in the
Project area including hospitals in all cities and townships and clinics in all villages. A major public health
concem is schistosomiasis which has prevailed in the region for a long time. Even now the region is still the
most serious schistosomiasis infection region in China. There are many cultural relics and heritage in the
ESA including Yueyang Tower in Yueyang, Yellow Crane Tower and East Lake in Wuhan. Of the various
environmental resources noted above, those which are most likely to be influenced by the Project are the
regional economics and quality of life ones, which are expected to be benefited greatly due to less frequent
and less serious flooding.
- 101 -



D:   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT AND EPMs
D-1:    Delineation of Significant Environmental Issues (SEIs)
The application of a matrix system, which lists Significant Environmental Issues (SEIs) associated with
major flood control/dike rehabilitation projects, identified that more than twelve major (12) SEIs and some
others apply to this Project. The 12 major SEIs are (i) resettlement; (ii) land use; (iii) aquatic species; (iv)
public health; (v) dike structural stability; (vi) downstream impacts; (vii) flood emergency program; (xiii)
borrow areas and spoil disposal; (ix) cultural relics; (x) impacts on Dongting Lake; and (xi) construction
operation constraints. The other SEIs include: (i) construction operations; (ii) environmental aesthetics; (iii)
traffic; (iv) public infrastructure facilities; (v) quality of life; and (vi) regional wetlands.
D-2:    Resettlement
D-2.1   Description of Resettlement Program       The YDSP covers two provinces of Hubei and
Hunan, and during the construction of the YDSP, 180 villages of 44 townships/farms in 22
counties/districts will be impacted, with land acquisition of 33,750 mu, house demolition of 1.519 million
m  and relocation of 10,958 households with 47,992 people. Of this resettlement, 2,880 households (25
percent of the total) for 10,958 resettlers will be relocated in 22 concentrated sites. This will result in an
estimated 13,859 persons who will require livelihood development, to be met primarily through the
improvement of agricultural land with development of sideline activities and industries taking a lesser role.
Over 70 percent of affected households (35,484 persons in 8,078 households) will relocate intemally to
their current village/administrative area within their existing community and with continued access to
existing infrastructures and facilities. Resettlement to centralized resettlement sites where planning includes
required infrastructure and social facilities and allows for resettlement of social and kinship groups together
is proposed for 30 percent of households (12,508 resettlers in 2,880 households). With respect to livelihood
development, only 4.8 per cent of arable land in the directly affected villages is required for Project
construction, and thus no significant adverse impacts on the region are foreseen. For the persons affected
by loss of income generating potential, the RAP proposes that there is rehabilitation of farmland which will
be improved to increase supply capacities for people to be employed in livestock development and others to
be provided with off-farm opportunities. The RAP reasonably and in detail analyzes the income restoration
program and gives a conclusion that the resettlers can maintain and improve their income generation under
the proposed plan.
In order to carry out the plan, a feasible resettlement budget has been developed incorporating costs for
compensation, income restoration, planning, monitoring, supervision and contingencies. Mechanisms for
consultation, participation and grievance resolution have also been applied and integrated into the RAP. To
ensure successful implementation of the RAP, a detailed supervision and monitoring system has been
proposed.
D-2.2   Environmental Assessment on Resettlement Considering that the resettlement planning and
preparation is well underway, and assuming that support from the two provincial planning institutes
(Hunan Water Conservancy and Hydropower Survey and Design Institute and Hubei Water Conservancy
and Hydropower Survey and Design Institute), and other Governmental agencies will continue as planned,
it is concluded that the implementation of the overall resettlement program is at this stage progressing
satisfactorily. In addition, if the EPMs specified in the ETA, including environmental monitoring, are
implemented as detailed in the ETA and Resettlement Action Plan, the Project resettlement activities will be
- 102-



in compliance with both national as well as World Bank environmental directives and standards. This
compliance will be monitored by the Project Environmental Management Office and the International
Environmental Panel of Experts. The following recommendations are made to ensure efficient and
environmentally friendly operation of the resettlement program:
Environmental Engineering Aspects: The contractors involved in the implementation of the Resettlement
Action program (RAP) will need to submit drawings, specifications and monthly reports on all aspects of
RAP implementation including attention to the environmental conditions in the construction areas. The
Environmental Construction Inspectors (ECIs) to be furnished by the Project EMOs will monitor the
operations of the contractors to ensure that their work complies with the environmental standards
stipulated in the civil works contracts. The recommendations of the International Environmental Panel of
Experts, including those pertaining to social and cultural issues, will need to be implemented by the EMO.
Those may also include the allocation of time and provision of budget for site visits by the Panel to allow
for direct contact with resettlement and host families.
Resettlement Environmental Monitoring. Efficient resettlement environmental monitoring by the Project
EMO is critical to the success of the resettlement program. This includes: (i) delineating resettlement
house/facilities design criteria for inspection that they are built according to the standards specified; (ii)
requiring the village to appoint a Village Environmental Officer; (iii) preparation of a manual with
operating guidelines for officers, including instruction on monthly reporting and record keeping; (iv)
training received by officers; and (v) bi-monthly visits to the village by ECI to monitor the situation on the
ground, for the first year after moving in, and with subsequent visits every six months.
Use of Appropriate Standards for RS Villages/Townships. Technical guidelines will be needed during the
construction of resettlement facilities to ensure that all the facilities are being constructed as per the agreed
standards and specifications, including (i) for families resettled in municipalities with urban facilities,
provisions for participation of the resettler homes in the municipal infrastructure facilities program
including water supply, sewage disposal, solid waste management, etc., and (ii) for families resettled in
areas without such services, provision of wells furnishing water of acceptable mineral quality, provision for
chlorinating or other measures to ensure water is safe to drink, provision of pour-flush toilets discharging
to dual disposal pits, arrangements for sanitary solid waste collection and disposal, provision of adequate
drainage to protect against flooding, and availability of adequate clinics/hospitals. In addition monitoring
will be needed of pollution control measures of the industries proposed to be set-up under the resettlement
program. Particular attention will need to be paid to well water quality, to check that mineral content does
not exceed specified limits, and does not pose problems of color, hardness, iron and manganese content. In
addition monitoring will be needed of pollution control measures of the industries proposed to be set-up
under the resettlement program
Other Issues: Other resettlement issues evaluated in the EIA include: (i) continuing development of the
database of environmental parameters relevant to the resettlement sites; (ii) special issues such as
rehabilitation of socially and economically disadvantaged groups of people; (iii) detailed advance planning
for Panel of Experts field trips; (iv) environmental reporting system for the Panel's visits, with EMO
preparing summary report with detailed reports (to be included as annexes) to be prepared by each of the
EMO subcontractors; and (v) disease control in resettlement villages, townships.
Summary Evaluations: Table 4 presents a summary evaluation of the environmental adequacy of the
Resettlement Action Plan for the Project. It is concluded that the net irnpact of the resettlement program is
beneficial to both the resettled and the host population. However, effective surveillance and monitoring as
described in the EIA is important to ensure that all the RAP's planned objectives will be achieved.
- 103 -



D-3:   Land Use
The Project will change present land uses in the ESA to a small degree, because the Project will mainly
strengthen the existing dikes. After the Project is completed, the land use mode in the Project protected area
will not be changed significantly. The impact of the Project is the loss of about 31,404 mu of land for dike
widening, which represents only about 0.1 % of the 33.7 million mu farmland protected. During the
construction period of the Project, measures will be taken to minimize the impact on land resources,
including careful land use planning and ensuring that these plans are adopted by the PMO and implemented
by the contractors. After the completion of the Project, the flood control standards in the regions will be
greatly improved from the present 10-20-year recurrence of floods to protection against the major floods of
1954 type (50 to 100 year recurrences). This improved level of protection will effectively ease the flood
threat on land resources, which will facilitate planning for optimal use of the available land.
D4:    Aquatic Ecology
The Yangtze river in the Project areas is frequented by the following four rare aquatic species:
Chinese River dolphin (lipotes vexilliter! This specie is already near extinction in the Yangtze river
system (only about 100 left), with their habitats mostly in sandbar/backwater areas. The Project
construction operations areas do not include these habitats, however, careful observations must be made
during construction to detect the dolphins and if detected, construction must cease until the dolphins have
gone or are diverted away.
Chinese sturgeon and Chinese Finless porpoise  These species migrate along the river channel's deep
bottom troughs, and will not be affected by the Project. White Sturgeon (Psephurus gladius), Chinese
Sucker (Myxocyprinus asiaticus) and Yangtze Sturgeon (Acipenser dabryanus): These are freshwater
fishes that live in the Yangtze River throughout the river sections. These fishes naturally have the ability to
avoid adverse surroundings when disturbed, and all fishes live in the deep area of the river, so the
implementation of the Project is not expected to cause any significant adverse effects
Four Family Fishes      In addition, the Yangzte river is also habitat for "Four Family Fishes", namely
black carp, grass carp, silver carp and big head. These reproduce in the flood season (May to July) when
most construction is halted; hence no significant impact from the Project is expected.
Other Fish Species Other important fish species have habitats in lakes and ponds, which should not be
affected by the Project.
D-5:    Public Health
Schisto (schistosomiasisl Control:   The major public health concem for the Project is the Schisto control.
Engineering Control Measures: Project preparation studies include engineering provisions for schisto
control. These include snail sinks and snail nets included in the design of culverts and gates, of backfill
operations of borrow areas, and of snail infected wet areas.
Schisto Control Measures during construction: Schisto control measures during construction include:
(i) medical examinations for workers; (ii) schisto control education and training of all the personnel and
- 104 -



workers involved; (iii) use of prevention medicines by workers; (iv) control of wet areas; (v)
management of excreta; (vi) use of boots and gloves; and (vii) monitoring to ensure the application of
the above measures as shown in Table 4.2.4-1. These measures will be included in construction
contracts and implementation of the measures will be ensured by the Environmental Construction
Inspectors (ECIs).
Schisto Control in Flood Emergencies: The schisto control measures used in flood emergencies include
use of schisto medicine, use of protective boots/gloves/clothing and use of snail nets.
Other Diseases Hazards during Construction: The dike rehabilitation program poses the potential risk for
disease outbreaks among construction workers which are common to virtually all major construction
projects, including enteric diseases, insect vector transmitted diseases, and others, all of which are to be
prevented/controlled by the contractors with monthly reports to the Project EMO as specified in civil works
construction contracts and with continuing surveillance by the ECIs fumished by the EMO.
D-6:   Dike Structural Stability
The dikes will be more stable when the Project is completed. With this and the other flood control measures,
the overall result will be a system which can manage floods of the 1954 level, provided that emergency
control measures of the comprehensive plan (such as use of storage basins) are promptly and efficiently
utilized during the flood hazard period With respect to earthquake hazards, most of the dike projects are in
regions where no special earthquake protection measures are needed. The exception are dikes in locations
where the design earthquake intensity is Grade 7. The designs for improving these dikes include special
protection measures: the crest of the dike has been widened from the normal 8.0 m to 10.0 m, and the entire
dike body has been widened accordingly.
D-7:   Downstream Impacts
Unlike dam/reservoir projects, which usually result in a variety of changes in the downstream region, this
Project will have little impact on the downstream areas. The only major downstream effect of the dike
strengthening project will be on the downstream flow hydrology at times of serious floods, as the project
measures will increase river flood flows in the downstream river sections. Analyses show that the flow
capacity of the downstream region is much greater than in the river system in the project region, hence no
adverse downstream flowing hazards are expected. In addition, no other adverse downstream effects are
foreseen, such as effects on aquatic species, public health, shipping, etc.
D-8:    Flood Emergency Program
The Yangtze Flood Emergency program is an important component of the national flood control system,
which comprises commanding system, emergency programs, and action plans. The emergency programs
prepared by the general command of the Yangtze flood control and local flood control commands includes:
flood regulation programs; flood forecasting; rescue program for dike failure; implementation program for
safe relocation from diversion and storage areas; mobilizing and organizing programs for flood control
teams; flood emergency programs conceming materials supply, communications and traffic; emergency
programs concerning refugee and anti-epidemic measures. These programs are part of an integral system
and will be put into action immediately when needed. During the 1998 flood, which was one of the most
serious floods of the Yangtze, the flood emergency programs were started timely and played an important
role in minimizing the flood losses and damages. Based on the 1998 flood experiences, on earlier floods
along the Yangtze river, and on flooding experience elsewhere in China, an Emergency Flooding Control
- 105-



System exists and is updated periodically for application in the Yangtze river basin.
D-9:    Borrow Areas and Spoil Disposals
The Project will require substantial quantities of soil materials for dike rehabilitation, with much less
production of spoil. The soil materials are to be taken from some 20,000 mu land areas in which 70 % in
Hunan and 30 % in Hubei is in the river bank areas . Compensation for these temporarily used land (one
year) has been planned and included in the RAP at a rate of 1,800 yuan/mu. Most of the borrow area will
be filled with spoils stored in temporary places or with soils from river bank to become or return to
farmland. And a little portion of the borrow area will be developed as fish ponds at request or agreement of
the farmers. However, measures have been planned to prevent schisto hazards in the borrow areas.
D-10:   Cultural Relics/Heritages
Upon completion of the Project, flood hazards in the ESA will be reduced and therefore potential flood
damage to the relics/heritages in the ESA will be reduced too. All the valuable cultural relics/heritage in the
ESA are located far away from the dike rehabilitation construction zones and will therefore not be adversely
affected by the construction operations. If any evidence is disclosed during the construction period which
indicates possible damage to any valuable relics, the civil works contractors will immediately inform the
Engineering Supervisor, ECI, EMO and follow instructions to protect the relics.
D-11:  Impact on Dongting Lake
Dongting Lake, with four tributaries on its north side connecting with the Yangtze, is located in Hunan
Province. It is the only area in the Yangtze middle reach that can accept Yangtze floodwater with a
significant effect on cutting down Yangtze peak flood level. The lake's outlet to the Yangtze is located at
Chenglingji. When the Project is completed the water level at Chenglingji may be somewhat higher in flood
season and the flood discharge from the Dongting Lake would be hampered. As a result the Dongting lake
will keep a higher water level for some time, exerting great pressure on the Dongting lake area. In order to
ensure the safety of the Dongting Lake area, a comprehensive flood control project is being undertaken in
this area in parallel with the planned project works. Both are integral components of the Yangtze Basin
Flood Control Master Plan. The Project is to be finished in 2000, two or three yeas ahead of the completion
of the Project. After completion of the comprehensive flood control project in Dongting Lake area, the
function of the Dongting Lake for alleviating Yangtze floodwater can be fully exerted and, at the same time,
the Dongting Lake area will also be safer.
D-12:   Construction Operation Constraints
Historically, civil works contractors have often caused unnecessary environmental damages, sometimes
serious, simply because it is the nature of contractors, and of the Supervision Engineer, to focus on
expediting building the projects' physical components, with generally low-priority attention to
environmental protection requirements. However, experience has shown that it is quite feasible and
affordable for contractors to observe and comply with the EPMs specified in EIA, provided these
requirements are specified in the construction contracts and provided Environmental Construction
Inspectors (ECIs) are made available to observe the contractor's operations and to insist on compliance.
Table 2 shows the EPMs to be observed by contractors. A team of ECIs will be employed by each
provincial EMO, who will, like supervising engineers, monitor on-spot contractor performance to ensure all
EPMs specified in the EIA will be actually implemented. A serious environmental issue under the Project is
the potential schistosomiasis hazard, because most of the Project construction areas are in serious
- 106 -



schistosomiasis hazard areas. All contractors will be required to implement the schistosomiasis control
measures described in Table 3 to protect their construction workers, which include medical examination,
snail killing, provision of safe drinking water, medicine and protection clothes, adequate excreta
management, and other measures. In addition to ECI's daily monitoring, a special schistosomiasis
monitoring teamn will check periodically the contractor's performance to ensure the EPMs for
schistosomiasis control will be implemented during construction period.
D-13:   Other SEIs
Other SEIs include the following six: Project construction operations, traffic, public infrastructure facilities,
aesthetics, quality of life and regional wetlands. The "Project construction operations" cover 4 sub-issues:
water quality, air quality, noise, and water supply. The construction activities under the Project are not
expected to produce significant wastewater. In addition, construction activities are scattered along the near
700 km dike alignment and the water flow and volume in the Yangtze is very large, with an average annual
minimum flow of 3,000 md/s. Therefore, the construction of the Project will have no significant impact on
the Yangtze water quality. However, the ECIs will monitor the contractor's performance to ensure that all
wastewater from construction and domestic use, will meet national standards when discharged into the
river. Because the Project dikes cover 700 km and most of the dike sections are in rural areas, the
construction of Project will not have significant adverse impacts on air quality, noise level, water supply,
traffic, public infrastructure, aesthetics, except perhaps the construction of dike sections in or near
cities/towns. For construction in such sections, sensitive places and corresponding EPMs have been
identified. The ECIs will monitor on-site the contractor operations to ensure all these EPMs will be
implemented during Project construction. After completion of the Project, the public fears about flooding
will be greatly dispelled with the greatly improved flood control standard. This will contribute significantly
to promote the economic development in the area, attract more investments, increase employment and
incomes and, as a result, significantly improve the quality of life in the area. The Project does not change
the hydrology in the wetlands in the ESA. All but one of the wetlands in the ESA are too far from the
Project construction areas to be affected by the construction operations. For the one near the dikes (Honghu
Lake) the construction operations will ensure that construction workers will be barred from traveling to the
lake.
E:   ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING
An essential component of the Project is its Environmental Monitoring Program, which is to cover both the
construction and operation stages of the Project, thus covering a period of some 23 years for Hunan
Province, and 24 years for Hubei Province. The monitoring work should begin as soon as the P/EMOs
become operative. Individual monitoring programs have been developed in the Project EIA including
monitoring activities, monitoring parameters, number of persons and skills needed, monitoring frequency as
well as input needed in terms of professional man-months. The individual monitoring programs are
summarized in Table 5. The monitoring program will be managed and supervised by the EMO, and most of
the detailed field work will be done by the ECIs and by the EMO professional staff. However, other
agencies, including the provincial schistosomiasis research institutes, provincial EPBs, and other concerned
institutes are to participate in the field work in accordance with agreements with EMO. Costs for
monitoring work by these other agencies, which is outside their normal scope of monitoring, are to be
reimbursed by the EMO/Project.
- 107 -



F:      OTHER IMPORTANT ISSUES
The other important issues assessed in the EIA include public consultation, public disclosure, compliance
with environmental laws, environmental economics, risk assessment, and global environmental issues.
F-1:    Public Consultation
Public consultation programs have been conducted by Project proponent in the two provinces and by the
EIA team during Project preparation. Some 327 individuals covering a range of ages, occupations, and
education of the people to be affected by the Project and 38 members of NGOs (such as NGO ecological
units, NGO fisheries, Peasants Party, Workers Democratic Party, China Democratic League, China
Association for Promoting Democracy, Chiu San Society, Worker's Union, Women Units, Rural Teachers
Unions, Rural Doctors Asssociation and others) as well as representatives of pertinent government agencies
and professional institutions have been consulted. Consultation forms included discussions at meetings,
interviews at random and filling questionnaires. Among the 365 people consulted, 364 show a positive
attitude to the Project and 160 made donations for flood fighting in 1998. Information of the people
consulted and their comments have been summarized in tables in the detailed EIA. Some of their comments
have been taken into consideration in preparing the EIA or made available to pertinent agencies such as
resettlement offices in two provinces.
F-2:    Public Disclosure of EIA Report
Public disclosure is an integral part of the EIA process. In order to take the views of affected groups and
local NGOs fully into account in Project design and implementation, the Project EIA report is released to
the public so that affected people and NGOs can understand the Project and its environmental impacts, and
give their opinions, suggestions and requirements. The completed EIA report, which includes a detailed
description of the RAP, was placed in December 1999 (prior to appraisal) in selected libraries in the two
provinces. The libraries are located at places which can be readily reached by people living along the river
in the areas subject to flooding and in the capitals of the two provinces. The draft RAP was disclosed to all
Project affected counties, townships, villages and people as early as September 1999. The RAP was
finalized in November 1999, after full agreements were reached with all counties, townships and villages.
After appraisal the govermnent made some changes in the Project locations in February 2000. These
changes were documented in a supplemental report to the EIA and revisions to the RAP. Both these
documents were placed in early April, 2000 in four libraries (Wuhan, Jinzhou, Changsha, and Yuyang)
used by many people in the two provinces. Three days prior to placing the EIA report in the libraries,
notices were published in provincial and local newspapers and on television networks informing the public
that they may visit the libraries to review the report and to give their comments to provincial PMOs.
Comments were received and have been taken into consideration in subsequent Project planning and
implementation. In addition for most of 1999 and 2000 on a weekly basis the news media described the
Project's main locations, key components and the type of activities proposed under the Project. Apart from
the above actions public disclosure of the EIA and related documents was carried out as indicated below:
- 108 -



Document                                Date               Location
1. PID/EDS to infoshop                       June 20, 1999       Infoshop (EXTIN)
2. Draft Resettlement Action Plan (RAP),     Nov 23, 1999        Infoshop (EXTIN)
3. Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA),    Nov 23, 1999        Infoshop (EXTIN)
4. Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), Oct. 1999  Dec 6, 1999        ISGIM
5. Summary EIA, November 1999                Nov 29, 1999        SECBO ED/Alternates
6. Revised RAP, March 2000                   April 3, 2000       Infoshop (EXTIN)
7. Supplement to EIA, April 2000             May 8, 2000         Infoshop (EXTIN)
8. Final Revised RAP, April 2000             May 31, 2000        Infoshop (EXTIN)
F-3:    Compliance with Environmental Laws
During the preparation of the EIA report, the development of EPMs and the Environmental Management
Plan, various environment-related laws/regulations of China and the World Bank were observed and
complied with. The EIA identifies the chapters/sections, which address compliance with corresponding
PRC requirements and Word Bank guidelines.
F-4:    Environmental Economics
EIA analyses show that the environmental benefits of the Project in controlling flooding will result in huge
economic and socio-economic benefits, compared to limited and relatively insignificant negative impacts.
The Project is for the benefit of all people in the areas protected by the Project, and unlike many major
projects, it is not in the "rich get richer, poor get poorer" category.
F-5:    Risk Assessment
The EIA has carried out a risk assessment anlysis for the Project. Table 6 summarizes the evaluation and
shows that Project planning and design has given careful attention to this aspect. It should be noted that
flood control projects for major rivers anywhere in the world are designed to protect against floods for a
selected flood return period, which represents the optimum economic level of protection. Larger floods will
of course cause serious damage. The purpose of such projects is to reduce flooding as much as feasible. For
this Project the design flood is the 1954 flood, which represents a I in 100 year flood.
F-6:    Global Environmental Issues
The EIA also evaluates Project-related Global Environmental Issues particularly Earth Warming and
Bio-diversity degradation. This evaluation shows that the effects of the Project in these areas will be
negligible.
G: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
To ensure effective implementation of the Environmental Protection Measures (EPMs) specified in the EIA,
including environmental monitoring, Provincial EMOs (P/EMOs) are to be established in each province.
The provincial EMOs are responsible for management of all environmental issues related to the Project
including implementation of the EMP and implementation of environmental protection requirements in the
Project final design, construction, and operation stages for both dike constructions areas and resettlement
areas. Figure I shows the institutional structure of a provincial EMO and its relationship with other parties
- 109 -



involved in environmental management for the Project in each province. An Overall Environmental
Coordinator (C/EMO) is to be appointed to work together with the P/EMOs to ensure appropriate
coordination between the two PlEMOs. An international Panel of Environmental Experts (POE) will be
established to review and periodically (usually at six month intervals during construction period) the
environmental performance of all agencies involved in the Project and make recommendations for
improvements. The P/EMOs and C/EMOs are to be established immediately following the signing of
Government /World Bank Loan Agreement. The overall EMP includes provisions for: (i) training of the
staff of the P/EMOs including ECIs, resettlement Village Environmental Officers (VEOs), and EMO
subcontractors; plus (ii) a visit to the USA to study how environmental aspects of flood control are
managed for the Mississippi River, which is of about the same magnitude as the Yangtze with quite similar
problems, to take advantage of lessons learned there in the comprehensive R&D program for the
Mississippi basin carried out over the past half-century by the US Corps of Engineers. Tables 7, 8 and 9
show the cost estimates for environmental management for the two provinces respectively, which are
included in overall Project budget.
H. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Table 9 summarizes the EIA study. As it shows, the Project is essentially an environmental improvement
undertaking, because it will greatly enhance the socio-economic/quality of life of the people living in the
flood-hazard areas which will be better protected through the Project. It is indeed a " People's Project", so
much so that many individuals living in these areas have made personal contributions to help project
funding. Table 9 in addition shows that, assuming the EPMs specified in the EIA, including environmental
monitoring, are properly carried out, the Project will not result in any significant adverse environmental
effects. To ensure the EPMs will be carried out, the Project includes an Environmental Management Office
with responsibility for getting this done, with its budget guaranteed in the Government/Bank Loan
Agreement, and with establishment of an International Panel of Environmental Experts who will visit the
Project every 6 months during the construction period to review the Project's environmental performance.
The Panel will report directly to both the Government and the Bank.
Table 2: Estimated Losses Caused by Most Serious Floods in 20th Century
Flooded Area   Affected Population  People killed    Houses   Economic Losses
Year         Affected Province         (10'mu)         (10 persons)    (10' person)   Destroyed
(10' sets)   (10" yuan)
1931    Hubei, Hunan, Jiangxi, Anhui,   5090              2850           145,400       179.60        *
Jiangshu
1935    Hubei, Hunan, Jiangxi, Anhui,   2264              1003           142,000       40.60
Jiangshu
1949    Hubei, Hunan, Jiangxi, Anhui,   2721              810             5,700        45.20         *
Jiangshu
1954    Hubei, Hunan, Jiangxi, Anhui,   4755              1880           33,000        427.60
Jiangshu
1980    Hubei, Hunan, Jiangxi, Anhui    4005        _                     1,339        _             *
1983    Hubei, Hunan, Jiangxi, Anhui    5001               *                8            *           *
1995    Hubei, Hunan, Jiangxi, Anhui,  5568.8            9212.3           1,085        78.50       566.05
Jiangshu
1996    Hubei, Hunan, Jiangxi, Anhui,   6509              9718            1,513        265.04      795.66
Jiangshu
1998    Hubei, Hunan, Jiangxi, Anhui,   482               229             1,562        212.85
Jiangshu
Notes: * Data not available;
** No official figure is available, but losses are estimated to be over Yuan 100 billion
according to data available.
- 1 10 -



Table 3: Environmental Construction Constraint
No.      ITEM                   CONSTRAINTS
1        Wastewater             all discharged wastewater meet national standards
2        Air Pollution Control    A       emissions from all fuel burning machines mneet national waste gas discharge standards;
B.        measures to control blasting and quarrying dust;
C.        road dust control (wetting, paving); and
D.        control production of obnoxious and toxic fumes.
3        Water Use              use water as planned and obtain pemnission
4        Workers Health         A.        worker medical examination to screen out infectious vnius carriers (inital and periodic);
B.        provision of safe drinking water supply;
C.        wastewater treatment and management;
D.        schistosomiasis prevention as described in Section 4.2.4
E.        provision of adequate food sanitation;
F.        provision of adequate measures for contmol of disease vectors including mosquitoes, rats, and flies;
G.        provision of adequate medical care capabilites and facilities including first aid facilities;
H         provision of adequate excreta management;
1.        provision of adequate occupational health and safety measures;
J.        provision of adequate houssng wstb sanitary facilstres;
5        Noise Control          A.        all machines meet national noise! vibration control standards;
B.        no construction activities in night in residential area if feassble;
C.        provision of adequate protecbon facilities to workers operating high noise/vibration machines;
6        Spoil Disposal         Dispose construction spoils in specified places and specified manners including protection dikes and resurfacing.
7        Solid        Waste    Collect solid wastes regularly and dispose in adequate sanitasy manner including use of fencing to prohubit access to disposal
Management            sites by children.
8        Soil Erosion           Resurfacing all borrow areas and filling areas and furnish dikes as needed to protect against discharge of soil runoff to
downstream water ways;
9        Cultural Relics        No dasnaging activities to custural relies, stop construction whenever cultural relies are discovered so EMO can determine
needed protection measures.
10       Aquatic Ecology        Specially-assigned person/persons to watch appearance of the Yangteze rare species when warping operaton is carried out in river
sections sensitve for these species.
11       Land Use               Occupy land as specified, no damage to farm land and crops; resurfacing land after use.
12       Monthly                Cdnstructon Contractors (CC) is fully responsible for environmental protection in his construction area and camnping area. CC is
Environmental         to make monthly environmental report to Environmental Construction  ispectors (EClsYEMO  on its performance in
Report                implementing the EPMs/constraints. Constriction contract must include detailed description of aU EPMs to be furnished
by CC.
Notes:        (a)     All of the constraints noted above are to comply with National and provincial laws and
regulations applicable to construction.
(b)     Detailed constraints will be prepared according to above items by the P/EMO  and will be
included in Project construction contracts.
-111 -



Table 4: Summary Evaluation of Environmental Adequacy of Resettlement Program
Criteria/lssues                   Adequacy of Design    Adequacy of       Adequacy of       Monitoring
& Planning        Construction         O&M          Planning Needed
1 RS Families                                                                              _______
1.1 Economics
1.1. I Transportation to new sites                         B                  SA               SA               High
1.1.2 Comparison of property                               A                  SA               SA             Adequate
1.1.3 Rehabilitation compensation                          A                  SA               SA               High
1.1.4 New income levels                                    B                 SA                NI               High
1.1.5 Training needs                                       B                  SA               NI             Adequate
1.2 Housing and Housing Amenities
1.2.1 Housing Quality                                      A                  SA                SA            Adequate
1.2.2 Housing water suplply                                A                   B                SA            Adequate
1.2.3 House exereta management                             NI                 NI                NI               NI
1.3 Public health infrastructure
1.3.1 Water supply quantity/quality/safety                NI                  B                NI                NI
1.3.2 Solid waste management                              NI                  B                NI                NI
1.3.3 Drainage                                             A                  SA               NI             Adequate
1.3.4 Clinics/medical facilities                           B                  SA               NI                NI
1.3.5 School sanitation                                   NI                  NI               NI                NI
2 Host Villages       ____________=
2 1   Vjila  er.Qnnmc'                                       B                  B                SA                NI
|    2 Village frastnrcturea cpatciy                         B                 SA                NI             Adequate
3 Socio-cultural Issues
3.1 Relocation within same demographic group                 A                  A                 A             Adequate
3.2 Relocation in the same region                            A                  A                 A             Adequate
3.3 Acceptance bv hosts                                      A                  SA               SA             Adequate
4 Institutional issues
4.1 Provincial govermments collaboration                     A                  A                 A             Adequate
4.2 Safety netgrievances mechanics                           A                  SA                B                NI
4.3 Public participation                                    SA                  IN               IN                NI
Note: A = very good; B = OK; IN = inadequate data; NI = needs improvement; SA  seems adequate
- 112-



Table 5: Summary of Monitoring Program
Participant Agencies          | Associated        Man-month
No.              Items               Section                         Design    Other   Sections     Const on   Operation
fmo   cc                       ~~~~~~Chapte 3   Cntuto      prto
Agencies Agencies    and 4         Peiod        Period
I Resetflement                   5.2.1      *          *    *                  *    4.2.1             30           30
2 Land use                       5.22       *                *                 *     42.2,33           4            10
3Actuatic svecies                5.2.3                       *                 *     4.2.33.3        (ECI)
4 Public health                  5.2.4      =    -_4.2.4 3.7                                          66           36
5 Dyke structiral stability      5.2.5      *                *       *         *    4.2.5              1            3
61 Downstn= impact               52.6       *                        *         *    4.2.6              2            6
7 Emergencyrgram                    52.7                                *         *    4.2.7              2            6
8 mhn s miratory birds           5.2.8      *                *                 *    4.2.8,3.5          2
9 Bonow areas and spois          5.2.9            *          *                 *    4.2.9            (EC
10 Cultural relics/heritages      5.2.10                                              4.2.10.3.5      (ECl-
11 Donginx Lake flood releasing   5.2.11     _                        *               4.2.11            2            6
12 Construction constraints       5.2.12           *          *                       4.2.12          (ECI
13 Other SEls                          553   =         =       _                              43        53
_  13.1 Conshtuction                5.3.1    _      _                                  4.3.1
13.1.1 Water ualitv           53.1.1                                              4.3.1   3.41     27
_    13.1.2 Airaualitv              5.3.1.2     *    *          *                 *        .12.3.4.       13
_   13.1.3 Noise                    5.3.1.3    *    *           *                *    4.3.1.3.3.4.       13
13.1.4 Water suvvly           5.3.1.4                                             4.3.1.43.6
13.2 Traffic                   5.3.2      *    *   -       *                 *     4.3.2, 3.6                ___
13.3 Infistructre              5.3.3                                               4.3.3. 3.6 
_     13.4 Aesthetics               5.3.4           _                                  4.3.4,3.7.3      (ECI)
_   13.5 Ouality of life            5.35       *   _      *     _                 *    4.3.5,3.7    Resettlement
14 Constiuchion supervision       5.2.14     *        _                     =    -   4.2.12            648
1' VEOs                           5.2.14     *          * _                           4.2.1            46
Note: (ECI) = to be monitored by ECI; Resettlement = monitoring has been included in Resettlement monitoring
-113-



Table 6: Summary of Risk Assessment Evaluation
Risk Item                                                 Item  given proper Pertinent  EIA  report
attention         sections
1. Risk of dyke failure                                  Yes                4.2.5, 6.5.2
1. I Structural integrity of dyke                       Yes               4.2.5
1.2 Protecting dyke from river erosion                  Yes               4.2.5
1.3 Consideration of earthquake hazard in design        Yes               4.2.5
2. Flooding Emergency Planning/ Preparations              Yes               4.2.7
3. Infectious disease risk                                Yes               4.2.4
3.1 Usual construction zone hazards                     Yes                4.2.4, 4.2.10
3.2 Special schistosomiasis EPMs during construction    Yes                4.2.4
3.3 Hazards from flooding events                        Yes                4.2.4
3.3.1 Schistosomiasis for flood fighters               Yes               4.2.4
3.3.2 schistosomiasis in flooded communities           Yes               4.2.4
3.3.3 Enteric disease in flooded communities           Yes               4.2.4
4. Safe awareness risk                                    Yes                6.5.3.1
5. Downstream flooding hazard                             Yes               4.2.6
6. Hazards to wildlife                                    Yes               4.2.3, 4.2.8
6.1 Aquatic species                                     Yes                4.2.3
6.2 Migratory birds                                     Yes                4,2.8
7. Transparency with Public                               Yes                6.1, 6.2
7.1 Public consultation                                 Yes                6.1
7.2 Public disclosure                                   Yes                6.2
8. Compliance with environmental law/ guidelines          Yes                6.3
9. Improper land use                                      Yes               4.2.2
-114-



Table 7: Estimated Total Cost for Overall Environmental Management Operations (US$) -Hunan
Item          Reference      Pre-    Construction Operations Sub-total Costs
(Figures)  Construction   period, 3   period, 20
period, 0.5   years       years
year
Environmental
Management Office     Tab. 7.6.1-1     28,750      146,000    500,000        674,750
Training Program      Tab. 7.6.1-4 -                35,000        -           35,000
Supervision and Monitoring  Fig. 5.3-2  -          200,000     42,500        242,500
Expert Panel          Tab. 7.6.1-8 -                78,000  -                 78,000
EMO Facilities                          30,000      60,000    100,000        190,000
Sub-total                               58,750     519,000    642,500       1,220,250
Contingencies             10%            5,875      51,900     64,250        122,025
Total                                   64,625     570,900    706,750       1,342,275
Table 8: Estimated Total Cost for Environmental Management Operations (US$)
(Hubei)
Item          Reference      Pre-    Construction Operations Sub-total Costs
(Figures)  Construction   period, 4   period, 20
period, 0.5   years       years
year
Environmental
Management Office     Tab. 7.6.1-2      28,750     195,000    500,000        723,750
Training Program      Tab. 7.6.1-4 -                67,100        -           67,100
Supervision and Monitoring  Fig. 5.3-2  -          287,500     51,000        338,500
Expert Panel          Tab. 7.6.1-9 -                24,000 -                  24,000
_EMO Fa_lities        __-_ r            30,000      80,000    100,000        210,000
|Sub-ttal      =       |                58,750     653,600    651,000       1,363,350
Contingencies             10%            5,875      65,360     65,100        136,335
_Total64,625                                       718,960    716,100       1,499,685
-115 -



Table 9: Summary of EIA Evaluation
Item No.        SEls        Sections of EIA       Potential for    Adequacy of        Net adverse
report which        adverse effects if    EPMs          environmental
discuss SEI           not properly                          effects
controlled
- -__-_-
I        Resettlement       2.2,2. 4.2.2. 5.2. It                       OK            NNASEEs
2        Land Use           33422522                    .               O             NNASEEs
3        Aquatic Species   3.5. 4 2 3                   *               O             NNASEEs
3.1      Rare species       5.2.3                                       OK            NNASEEs
3.2      Four Family        5.2.3                      N
3.3      Other Fish species 5.2.3                      N      ___
4        Public             3.7.2. 4.2.4 5.2.4                          O K           NNASEEs
4.1      Usual construction 4.2.10                X          *          OK            NNASEEs
Schistosomiasis in
4.2      construction zone  4.2.4                      **K                            NNASEEs
4.3      Flooding disease  4.2.4                                        OK            NNASEEs
4.3.1    Flood              4.2.4                                       OK            NNASEEs
Enteric disease in
4.3.2    flooded            4.2.4           -*                          OK            NNASEEs
5        Dyke Structural   2.1.1. 4.2.5                iii              OK            NNASEEs
6        Downstream         3.1.3. 3.1.4. 3.4.4         *                             NNASEEs
6.1      Hydrology          4.2.6. 5 2.6                *               OK            NNASEEs
6.2      Other              4.2.6                       N
7        Flood Emergency  4.2.7                       s**OK                           NNASEEs
8        Saicheng           3.5.2. 4.2.8               se               O             NNASEEs
9        Borrow Areas and 4.2.9                        O*                 K           NNASEEs
1t       Cultural           3.7.3. 4.2.10               _        =      OK            NNASEEs
It      |Impacts on         4.2.11                    O**                 K           NNASEEs
Construction
12       Operations         4.2.12             |      iOK                             NNASEEs
13       Other SEls         4.3
Water supply,
environmental
13.1   _pollution control  4.3.1                 _        i   _         OK            NNASEEs
Environmental    4                                                     OK            NN ASF F
13.3     Traffic and        4.3.2. 433                                  OK i_  O      NNASEEs
13.4   lQuality of life    !4.3.5              !      iiOK                            NNASEEs
114      Public             6i-                                         OK            NNASEEs
15       Public disclosure  6,2                |       ii               OK            NNASEEs
|   Compliance withrT
16      lenvironnnent      16.3               |        F*OK                           NNASEEs
Chinese
16.1     government         6.3.1                      O*                 K           NNASEEs
16.2     World Bank         6.3.2                      **               O             NNASEEs
17       Environmental    6.4                                           OK            NNASEEs
18       Risk assessment   6.5                          *               OK            NNASEEs
G oal             .6.6                                         OK _ _
_Ev n-                                                 MOK
Environmental     ==                                     
Ma1 na ement Plan/ 7 
.Overall Proj'ect  __
22       environmental      8
Overall
22.1     environmental      8        -Adecuate
222 Environmental    8Exccllcnt
Notes: N   None,  NNASEEs = No net adverse significant enviromnental effects if EPMs specified in EIA are duly applied.
***= Major, ** = Intermediate, * = lesser but significant.
- 116-



Figure 1:       Provincial EMO Management Structure
Provincial Proiect S
ManaMement          l
Enizincering S erttemn Villag nvironmenl Oilc
IECIs                              Moioii nttt
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
cc          l                                                VEOsl
Notes
l.  Management or Contract;
Cooperation or Supervision
2.   CC = Construction Contractor;
VEO = Resettlement Village Environmental Office
ECI = Environmental Construction InsDector,
P/EMO = Provincial Project EMO
-117-



Additional
Annex No.: 12
YANGTZE DIKE STRENGTHENING PROJECT
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN (RAP)
SUMMARY
1.    Introduction and Background
The Yangtze River, the largest river in China, stretches over a length of 6,300 km with a basin coverage of
1.80 million km . The basin is home to some 19 million people, approximately 58% of which live in the
rural areas with agriculture being their main source of income. The annual per capita income in rural areas
is approximately Yuan 2,156 compared to Yuan 5,531 in urban areas. In addition to being the rice basket
of China the Project area is also a major center for industry and commerce. Flooding is frequent in the
Yangtze basin with floods occurring in the middle and lower basins resulting in huge losses to people's
property and lives and serious damage to the local ecology and environment. The Government is
undertaking several initiatives in flood management, and the Project is a major step in that direction. The
Project aims to upgrade and strengthen the dike system in the provinces of Hunan and Hubei. The Project
will result in a significant number of people being resettled and hence a detailed Resettlement Action Plan
has been prepared to implement the resettlement component of the Project. The Project will consist of
reinforcement of 559 km of main dikes of the Yangtze in Hunan and Hubei provinces (Hunan: 117 km and
Hubei: 442 km). Construction will include heightening and widening dike body, slope protection, bank
protection, dike body and dike foundation treatment, building of platforms, improvement in dike operating
facilities and equipment, and land compensation and resettlement. In both provinces work is underway,
beginning soon after the floods of 1998, with resettlement representing the initial task before construction
commencement. Flood protection provided by the YDSP will benefit a land area 20,057 km' including
cultivated land of 12.58 million mu and a population of 16.77 million will gain from this. The Project on
completion will also provide protection to key urban and rural areas as well as vital infrastructure such as
airports, ports, rail routes (Beijing - Guangzhou, Beijing - Jiulong) and important national highway No.
107. It is estimated that the annual benefit from the Project will be Yuan 1.166 billion  (Hunan 356
million and Hubei 810 million). The intermal economic rates of return are calculated at 25 and 45 for
Hunan and Hubei respectively. Whereas the Project brings substantial economic benefits to the people of
the Yangtze basin, it also displaces a total of 47,992 people from 10,958 households that will require
resettlement, including acquisition of almost 33,750 mu of land. Resettlers represent approximately 16.5
percent of the population of the directly affected villages, and thus an elaborate Resettlement Action Plan
has been prepared to minimize all the related impacts. The Project feasibility study has taken into account
the impacts from resettlement and the design has been prepared to avoid/minimize resettlement as much as
possible. This has been a result of numerous site investigations and altemative site before preparing the
final plan.
2.    Impact of the Project
A total of 47,992 people from 22 counties, 44 townships and 180 villages, within the provinces of Hunan
and Hubei will be affected.
- 118 -



Hubei     Hunan              Total
Affected     Households                    6,494      4,464           10,958
Populations   People                      28,779     19,213           47,992
Reduced Means of             7,651      6,208           13,859
Production (persons)
Land and     Land (mu)                    15,172     18,577           33,749
Assets       Buildings (103 m 2)             884        879            1,763
Enterprises                    180         67             247
Graves                       2,408      4,408            6,816
Temporary Land Loss (mu)     4,166      8,788           12,954
Due to the linear and elongate nature of the Project affected area, impacts on local social and economic
systems will be minor. The Project will however have a considerable impact on local population, primarily
through structural and land losses and economic adjustment associated with reduced availability of
cultivated land following re-allocation of village lands. Table 1 lists the populations and assets affected by
land acquisition for the YDSP, and Table 2 indicates the proportion of the Project areas affected. These
impacts have been quantified as follows:
v  LandAcquisition - a total 33,750 mu of occupied land, of which 65 percent (21,906 mu) is arable
land, about one third of which is irrigated will be required. Trees/orchards and fishpond/water
ponds, represent the next largest component of the acquired land at 12 percent (3,913 mu), and
12.5 percent (4,220 mu) respectively. Of the total occupied land, 18,577 mu is in Hunan Province
(55 percent), and 15,172 mu (45 percent) in Hubei province. A total of 12,954 mu of land will be
required for temporary use or lease.
*  Building Acquisition - 1,763,014 m 2of houses and buildings will be acquired, of which 14 percent
are commercial buildings of 243,923m', and 86 percent private houses covering 1,519,091 m. Of
the 247 enterprises affected many will be able to relocate partial operations, extend on current sites
or absorb land losses with no production loss. Affected enterprise structures include housing for
staff who will relocate locally. Affected or lost private buildings and staff housing is considered
under resettlement.
Province    Private Housing Affected         Enterprises and Public Buildings Affected
Hubei -Total rural area housing    - 180 enterprises to be affected, 33 wholly and 147 partially
544,266m'                   144,237 m'
-Total urban area housing =
195,085m'
Hunan -Total private housing area =  - Total enterprise and public building area (67 units) =99,686m
779,700m_
*   Infrastructure Losses - The Project will require rebuilding or restoration of some 176 km of simple
roads, 38 km of concrete road, 254 km of broadcasting lines and TV cables, 476 km of telephone
lines, 143 km of 10 kV transmitting line, and 20 km of 35 kV transmission lines.
*  Resettlement - As a result of land acquisition, 47,992 people from 10,958 households (including
resettlers from enterprise housing) will require resettlement. Detailed surveys of affected people
- 119-



have not identified any ethnic minority populations. In Hunan and Hubei provinces ethnic
minorities can be found in the mountainous western regions of the province, having left the
Yangtze Valley with the immigration of the Han over 400 years ago. No remaining communities
of ethnic minorities are to be found in the Project area, and though individuals have likely married
and integrated into the dominant Han culture, they would not be expected to be considered
vulnerable due to their ethnicity, nor are they indigenous to the area, and thus the World Bank's
OD 4.20 Indigenous Peoples is not applicable to the current Project. Through the household
surveys, vulnerable groups (representing approximately 5% of resettlers) such as widows, female
headed households, households without labor and disabled households were identified for special
subsidies and support under the resettlement plan. As the Project is a linear/corridor type
development, while many villages are affected, in most instances this affects only a small portion of
each village, overall an average of 16.5 percent of the total population of 291,474 in the 180
affected villages.
*   Economic Effects - Land acquisition impacts on production by enterprises will be minor with few
of the 234 affected establishments requiring complete relocation. An estimated 13,859 people will
be required to readjust their means of income generation as a result of agricultural land loss.
Estimated post-resettlement land areas are approximately 5 percent below existing levels. Some 85
percent of the income and production restoration programs are land based, providing for recovery
and improvement of the affected workers, primarily within existing or related agricultural
practices.
*   Hosts - Re-allocation of lands within resettlement villages, and in some cases in adjacent villages
which may sell their land to the affected villages, will result in land area reductions for all
agricultural households in the village. In both scenarios, land compensation (or purchase costs)
should be utilized for the development of all remaining village lands. Project monitoring will also
review the utilization of designated funds for such purposes.
3.    Legal Framework and Resettlement Strategy
The RAP for YDSP has been prepared within the national Chinese legal framework, and in accordance
with the World Bank's Operational Directive 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement. Appropriate national
regulations pertain to land and water resource management. Key regulations studied and used for design of
RAP include (i) the "Land Management Act of People's Republic of China", 1998; (ii) "Water Act of
People's Republic of China, 1998; (iii) the "Land Compensation and Resettlement Regulation for Large
and Medium Sized Water Conservancy and Hydropower Projects", 1991; and (iv) other national and
provincial ordinances and decrees of Hunan and Hubei provinces on land management. The key principles
of resettlement compensation under the Project have been designed based on these laws and regulations.
The guiding principle has been to award compensation costs to the resettlers in such a way that their
original standard of living is maintained at the least. A matrix of the entitlements for the people and assets
affected by the Project is presented in Table 3. Compensation standards (presented in Table 4) have been
determined for: (i) land; (ii) housing; (iii) auxiliary buildings and trees; (iv) relocation and transfer; (v)
public utilities in settlements; (vi) relocation allowances; (vii) vulnerable and economically weaker groups;
and (viii) infrastructure and special facilities. Average compensation costs for private housing range from
50-100 yuan/rn for auxiliary structures to a maximum of 270-410 yuan/mi for brick-concrete housing, and
700 yuan/mi for frame-structure premises in Wuhan. Enterprises and public/institutional buildings'
compensation range from a minimum of 60 yuan/rn to a maximum of 800 yuan/ m between the provinces.
Land compensation has been calculated for each resettled family on a per mu basis for two categories of
land, one for per capita cultivated land holdings of less than I mu and another for more than 1 mu. The
- 120 -



compensation ranges from 3,200 yuan/mu (for other miscellaneous land) to 29,800 yuan/mu (for vegetable
field) in the forner category to 3,600 yuan/mu (forest land) to 29,800 yuan/mu in the latter. These
compensation estimates not only cover the full replacement costs but also the livelihood development cost
which extend far beyond replacement costs. Use of these procedures is essential to achieve the basic
resettlement goals, namely that all families involved in resettlement will not be disadvantaged by the Project
and instead, to the extent feasible, will share in Project benefits.
4.     Resettlement Program
Chapter 4 of the RAP presents the Resettlement Program for the Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project. The
chapter outlines the various housing and economic restoration measures which have been developed in
order to: (i) minimize disturbance to resettlers by providing local resettlement options, familiar
production/income restoration altematives, necessary support in the period of transition; (ii) be acceptable
to both resettlers and host populations; and (iii) maintain or improve income levels and standards of living
of Project affected people. Chapter 4 also describes the mechanisms for restoration of enterprises,
infrastructure and utilities affected by the Project.
4.1     Household Restoration         Some 10,958 households of 47,992 people in the Project area will
have to be resettled, of which 4,464 families or 19,213 people come from Hunan, and 6,494 households of
28,779 people from Hubei. In accordance with the guidelines for minimizing distance to altemative
resettlement sites, and with resettler preferences, the following resettlement altematives were developed,
based on available land area, its capacity for increased production, and the viability of industry expansion.
Resettlement Type                                            Number of HH          Number of People
Internal Resettlement
(resettlement of rural households within the existing village area)  8,078        35,484
Collective Resettlement
(relocation to new residential areas in rural and urban sites (as  2,880          12,508
appropriate), urban resettlement to apartment blocks and rural safety
platform sites)
Total                                                        10,958               47,992
4.1.1  Internal resettlement   Almost 74 percent of resettlers will be relocated within their existing
village administrative areas, minimizing disturbance to existing social and economic systems. This type of
rural resettlement will require land improvement and the redistribution of village productive lands, and in
eleven instances, the transfer of lands from adjacent villages to supplement lands currently available within
the village. Environmental and economic capacity investigations identified the 168 villages as feasible for
this means of resettlement, in light of the production restoration measures proposed. In most cases of
intemal resettlement, infrastructure and service displacement will be minor, and the restoration of all
impacted services is included in the resettlement program and budget. House reconstruction will be
undertaken by the villagers themselves, in accordance with relevant standards.
4.1.2   Collective Resettlement Collective resettlement will involve 2,880 families of 12,508 people to 22
sites. There are the following three types for collective resettlement:
* Towns or Communities - where new housing areas can be constructed in existing
communities;
* Township Blocks - where new residential blocks will be developed for resettlers; and
* Safety Platforms - elevated platforms will be built nearby to villages, on top of dikes where
residential housing will be constructed.
- 121 -



In Hunan and Hubei 22 residential sites will be developed for rural resettlers in towns or communities,
providing for a total of 2,880 households with 12,508 people. Through land re-allocation and land
development, the RAP provides for the largely rural resettlers to maintain agricultural livelihoods. In
Hunan, 10 residential safety platforms are proposed for the resettlement of 1,715 rural households totaling
7,331 people. In each instance, minimum housing and living space standards will be met, and where
adequate infrastructure and facilities including water supply and sanitation, drainage, power will be
provided.
4.2    Production Resettlement    The income and production restoration program described in
Section 4 was developed according to guidelines of: (i) providing a variety of restoration alternatives, with
land as the primary means of support; (ii) utilizing local resources and development activities without
adverse impact to the environment; and (iii) development of secondary and tertiary village run industries.
Net income per capita rates have been set by the program as a target and measure for successful
implementation of the program. An analysis of the land capacity in the affected villages has examined land
availability and level of development of existing lands during the identification stage of the selected sites
where reduced land holdings, with appropriate investment an development, would not compromise canying
capacity.
Production plans for each province are detailed in Table 5 below:
4.2.1  Hunan Province - Improve 52,762 mu of land to support 5,077 resettlers and transfer
1,227 mu of foreign village tilled land to support 893 resettlers, among which 623 mu is irrigated
and 604 mu is non-irrigated land.
4.2.2 Hubei Province - Support 7,651 rural resettlers, among which 6,183 persons will be
involved in improving low-output land, 342 persons in animal husbandry, and 1,126 persons in
village-run enterprises and tertiary industry.
Implementation of the above programs will require an estimated investment of Yuan 166.96 million,
distributed as Yuan 54.62 million for Hunan Province and Yuan 112.34 million for Hubei Province, which
will be met by use of the land compensation and resettlement funds. The average investment per capita for
rearrangement is Yuan 12,048.
4.3    Occupation of Tenporary Lands     Total affected lands have been identified as 12,954 mu.
Compensation will be provided based on annual output (for lost production), and to meet restoration costs.
These costs are not included in the RAP as they are met by the Project construction costs
4.4   Infrastructure and Enterprise Recovery  Chapter 4 identifies affected infrastructure which will
be relocated or reconstructed as a result of the Project, at a cost of approximately Yuan 64.40 million.
Affected enterprises total 247, with in many instances land acquisition will result in only partial relocation
or loss of land with minimal impact to production. Investment for their relocation and lost production is
estimated at Yuan 107.25 million.
5.    Resettlement Budget
Chapter 5 of the RAP presents detailed cost estimates for implementing the resettlement program in the
Project regions, which comprise the costs for the three participating provinces. The discussion covers the
following items: (i) compensation costs; (ii) planning and management costs; (iii) costs for contingencies,
including basic contingency and contingency for price difference; (iv) budget program, including fund
disbursement and fund sources; and (v) annual investment plan. Overall Project cost is approximately Yuan
966.14 million, with Yuan 369.80 million for Hunan and Yuan 596.33 million for Hubei Province (as
summarized in Table 6). These costs incorporate compensation for relocation (including houses and
- 122 -



assets), land compensation and compensation for public utilities, etc. Based on inventories undertaken and
compensation standards, total compensation costs are estimated at Yuan 820.83 million or 85 percent of
the total resettlement budget), including Yuan 501.71million relocation compensation for resettlers, Yuan
232 million land acquisition compensation, and Yuan 87.12 million compensation for public utilities.
Planning, management, training, supervision and consulting fees are estimated to be 65.54 million yuan.
Base contingencies costs are Yuan 20.37 million in Hunan and Yuan 32.83 million in Hubei. Based on the
annual investment plan and the price indexes, the contingency cost for price difference is estimated to be
Yuan 26.59 million. In addition, a contingency of 5 percent of the housing compensation value has been
included in the overall Project contingency to provide a safety net fund for vulnerable groups in Hunan of
Yuan 0.86 million. The fund will be supported by local and central government respectively, about 18
percent and 2 percent. The funds will be furnished from the following sources:
*   Hydrological Construction Fund,
*   Provincial Governments Agricultural Development Fund,
*   Provincial, City and County finance,
*   Hydrological Construction Subsidy,
*   Special Labor Fund for Poverty Area and Capital from Beneficial Units,
*  Income from water fee,
*   Municipal Maintenance Fund,
-   Central Government.
6.    Organizational Structure and Administration
The institutional structure for resettlement aspects of the Project is illustrated in Figures 1 and 2, showing
the agencies and organizations responsible for management, planning, implementation, supervision and
monitoring all aspects of resettlement at the provincial level. In addition they show independent external
inputs, and the recommended appointment of an Overall Resettlement Coordinator as a link between the
two provinces, the Ministry of Water Resources, and the World Bank. In both provinces the PMO, as
Project owner, contracted the relevant provincial Hydropower Planning and Design Institute to develop the
RAP, including undertaking inventory, modifying design for resettlement minimization, identification and
evaluation of alternative resettlement and production sites and income generation activities in consultation
with relevant agencies and affected populations. The PROs, through counterpart offices at the County level
and through representatives in each of the affected townships and villages, are responsible for the
implementation of the plan. Supervision of implementation will be provided through furnishing an SR in
each province to ensure quality and timely progress on resettlement works. In addition, as noted in the
EIA, each province will establish an EMO with primary responsibility for ensuring that the resettlement
program design and implementation will comply with the EPMs specified in the EIA. The PMO will
arrange to appoint in each village a VEO to be responsible for environmental management and for reporting
on resettlement progress, while the provincial EMO and ECIs will supervise planning and development
public health infrastructure and waste management practices in the resettlement villages. Monitoring will
be provided by an IMEO to regularly evaluate the progress of resettlement, including the social and
economic rehabilitation of affected populations, and to provide direction and advice to the SR and PMO for
adequate performance and in the resolution of problems. IMEO reports will be furnished to both the PMO
and the World Bank. Successful implementation of the resettlement program will require sizeable
investment in training of resettlement staff in resettlement technology, and of resettlers in undertaking new
production techniques and industry skills. The budgets for these training programs total approximately
Yuan 3.76 million.
- 123 -



7.     Public Consultation and Social Adjustments
The resettlement program includes provisions for public consultation and social adjustments to ensure
achievement of the goal that the affected parties (resettler families and the host communities) involved in
the resettlement program are not disadvantaged by the Project and to the extent feasible will share in the
Project benefits. Preferential policies specified by the Government and additional policies included in the
RAP will be available to resettlers. Policies of primary importance to resettlers will be:
* Tax and levy deduction for acquired lands, and for exemptions or reductions in the associated grain
quotas, thereby supporting both the resettlers and host communities;
* Industrial, agricultural and animal husbandry taxes and levies at the county and township levels
will be adjusted in accordance with the resettlement impact magnitude in each administrative area;
* The resettlement budget includes a contingency for the support of vulnerable groups if they are
disadvantaged by the Project and, due to unforeseen circumstances, unable to restore their
livelihood under the proposed RAP; and
*   In the year of resettlement, resettlers will be exempted to contribute annual labor to dike
maintenance.
Consultation and participation of affected people and their representatives have been integral components
of the development of the RAP. Detailed consultations have been conducted with all the affected counties,
townships and villages and thousands of affected and host households on the impact of the Project and
proposed locations for resettlement and livelihood development plans. Some of the comments resulted in
modifications to the Project to ensure that resettlement was minimized. For example if the construction of a
concrete wall to protect from flood waters was feasible rather than a dike, the "wall" design was adopted
since the "wall" option occupied about 1/10 the space requirements of a dike. The adoption of this option
resulted in some cases with no need to resettle any people. Detailed consultation agreements have been
concluded with all resettler households listed in the Resettlement Action Plan. Essential to the success of
the planning and assurance of resettler acceptance and understanding of the resettlement program is the
issuance of resettlement entitlement booklets (as utilized in the Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project), and the
undertaking of agreements with all affected parties. Grievance redress mechanisms in China are clear and
comprehensive, yet the publication of the existence and use of this mechanism to affected people through
incorporation in the resettlement entitlement booklets will be essential to its effective use, and thus
management of resettlement implementation. Comprehensive recording of grievances and responses and
actions at all levels will also be undertaken.
8.     Resettlement Contracts and Agreements
The PMO in each province has lead responsibility for implementing the provincial resettlement program
component of YDSP. This work involves participation and cooperation between numerous agencies
including the PMO Chief, PRO, SR engaged by the PRO, EMO, CiROs and CoROs, township
governments, the resettlement Villages including their leaders. In order for these various agencies/officials
to work together efficiently, a number of contracts/agreements are needed which spell out clearly the roles
of the participating parties. Primary contracts/agreements to be undertaken between the involved parties
include: (i) letter of Agreement between PRO and City RO; (ii) Agreement on Land Sharing between Host
Community and Resettlement Village; (iii) Agreement on Resettler Family Compensation between
Resettling Family and Township Government; (iv) Agreements on Land and Asset Acquisition with
Counties, Townships and Villages; and (v) Contract for Construction of Resettlement Project, including
specific constraints relating to environmental protection.
- 124-



9.    Monitoring and Supervision
Regarding resettlement, the PMOs will be responsible for internal monitoring of land acquisition and
resettlement (RAP) implementation. The responsible PMO staff will have appropriate experience and will
facilitate coordination between different agencies involved in resettlement. A training program is included
in the RAP which provides staff training in monitoring and supervision. The PMOs will monitor the
performance of ROs at various levels (cities, counties, and villages) during Project implementation,
coordinate the resettlement work by all parties, and keep abreast of resettlement implementation status. Key
activities will include: (i) resettler relocation, site allocation and housing progress; (ii) quality of production
re-establishment projects; (iii) recommendations on any problems encountered with implementation; (iv)
income restoration; (v) infrastructure and community facility construction; (vi) re-establishment of
vulnerable groups; (vii) timely disbursement of funds; (viii) maintaining public consultations; (viii)
resettlement training services; and (ix) project and organization management. The PMO will submit
monitoring summary reports to the Overall Resettlement Coordinator and World Bank twice a year. An
Independent Monitoring and Evaluation Organization (IMEO) e.g. the Yellow River Resettlement
Monitoring and Evaluation Co. Ltd. will be retained by the PMOs for monitoring and evaluation of land
acquisition and resettlement work under the Project. Responsibilities of the IMEO will include technical
consultation services, monitoring and supervising overall resettlement implementation, evaluate the
resettlement supervision organizations (SRs), and report to the PMOs/PROs and the ORC on the status of
resettlement progress. The IMEO will also take part in periodic public consultation meetings at village and
township levels. During its periodic site visits the IMEO will evaluate public complaints and monitor the
efficiency of the grievance redress process and make recommendations as necessary on any possible change
to the process. The duration of independent monitoring and evaluation will cover the Project construction
period and a two-year period after Project completion. During Loan negotiations an assurance has been
obtained that each province will employ, not later than September 15, 2000 and thereafter at all times
maintain: (i) a monitoring institution with TOR, qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, to
monitor, evaluate and report on the socio-economic progress of all persons covered by the respective
RAPs; and (ii) a panel of environmental and resettlement experts with TOR, qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Bank, to assist in overseeing the implementation of the EMP and the RAP
and monitoring the impact of the implementation of the Project on the environment.
Supervision of resettlement will be delegated to a Supervisor of Resettlement (SR) who will supervise
implementation of the RAP, resettlement Project cost and identify and report on any issues. The SR will
report to ROs and PMOs for early resolution of problems with contractors, thus avoiding the intensification
and evolution of such problems. The SR will exercise schedule, quality and cost control of resettlement
implementation and community infrastructure re-establishment, and arrange acceptance of completed
works, in order to facilitate smooth completion of the resettlement component according to quality and
scheduled requirements. The SR will include head office staff and field supervision teams. Typical staff
profile will include a chief engineer, and two full-time staff to be responsible for office and field work.
Supervision work has started in May 2000. The total cost is estimated at Yuan 8.21 million, which has
been included in the cost estimate for resettlement.
A position of an Overall Resettlement Coordinator (ORC) will be created at the Central Project
Coordination Office (CPCO), who will coordinate the resettlement operations in both provinces. The ORC
will work with an overall resettlement coordination committee comprising one representative from each
PRO. The ORC will report to the Ministry of Water Resources, the Yangtze Water Resource Commission
(CWRC) and the World Bank on matters pertaining to resettlement under the Project. The ORC, working
with each PRO, will prepare reports describing the overall status of resettlement, incorporating the results
of each province's monitoring and reporting to the Panel of Experts (POE), the World Bank, MWR and
CWRC officials as required. This support will involve furnishing regular reports to World Bank missions,
- 125 -



facilitating field visits and meetings with relevant agencies, and responding to various queries as required.
A Panel of Experts (POE) on Resettlement will be established to make periodic evaluations of Project
resettlement performance and provide recommendation on measures which may need to be taken so that
Project resettlement performance will comply with requirements specified in the Government-Bank Loan
Agreement for the Project. The POE is to be an independent panel, reporting both to the Government and
the Bank and is expected to provide guidance in planning/implementing the overall resettlement program.
Two Panel meetings, of 12 days duration have been planned each year from 2000 to 2003, covering the
period of Project construction. At a later time the Government and Bank will evaluate the possible need for
Panel function during the operation period. The cost for POE has been estimated at Yuan 2.1 million and
is included in the foreign currency component of the resettlement budget.
10.   Resettlement Implementation Scheduling
Resettlement schedules for Hunan and Hubei have been developed in order to ensure that: (i) the timing of
construction activities does not disrupt agricultural production; (ii) compensation and land allocation to
resettlers is received a minimum of 3 months in advance of relocation; (iii) provision or replacement of
infrastructure and utilities occurs in advance of resettlement; (iv) resettlement construction is scheduled to
minimize impacts on the overall YDSP works; and (v) resettler training is scheduled in production ebb
period. The overall YDSP resettlement schedule is presented in Figure 3. Resettlement under the Project
is scheduled for implementation through the end of 2003. Resettlement activities have commenced at
priority dike sections in both provinces and up to now 3,566 households with 15,369 resettlers have been
relocated. The implementation of these activities in respect to the standards are outlined in the RAP, and
the agreed measures to rectify any shortfalls are described below. As involvement of the Bank and
confirmation of the YDSP as a separate project within the overall program is yet to be confirmed,
resettlement is being undertaken according to a wide range of compensation standards and modes of
disbursement within the Project area, a situation governed primarily by the availability of funds.
During field visits to project areas, several aspects of household restoration and resettlement were observed
to be progressing well:
*   Rural houseplant allocations have been provided in conformance with standards described
in the RAP. In each internal resettlement area visited these were less than 300 meters from
the original sites, and all of the resettlers interviewed were satisfied with the location of the
new sites.
*   Rural housing reconstruction has been managed by resettlers, based on both recommended
layouts and individual preferences. In most instances, resettlers have made significant
increase in size and quality of housing.
*   While no resettlement to townships has yet been undertaken, sites have been identified, and
resettlers interviewed in Hubei were aware of, and satisfied with the relocation sites and
proposed conditions.
*   In rural areas, resettlers remarked that they had participated in inventories, signed off on
their affected assets, and were aware of the schedule and program for resettlement.
Consultations with resettlement implementing agencies and field visits also identified areas where
improvements are required. These areas, and the agreements reached with the PMOs in regard to specific
activities required to address them, and elevating the current program to RAP standards are outlined below:
- 126 -



*   Current levels of qualified staff at the County level will be increased and the resettlement
staff training program described in the RAP will be implemented.
It was confirmed during Loan negotiations that Project specific ROs were established at all levels, with
staffing in accordance with the requirements outlined in the RAP. In addition it was confirmed during
negotiations that the proposed training programs for the ROs had started, and guidelines on the
management offunds had been issued to all ROs.
*   Compensation for rural structures which have been less than adequate for housing
replacement, leaving resettlers to rely on personal savings and loans
*   Compensation standards for land, where proposed, are below standard, and in most
instances have not yet been disbursed, preventing rural land development and consequent
land re-allocation and livelihood restoration programs.
*   Compensation for enterprise structures is below the required standard, being provided only
for structures, and not for lost production and wages, or associated facilities, causing loss
in employment, and in some cases stalling of enterprises or public buildings.
*   Where compensation was provided for lost crops, this was below the standards proposed
in the RAP.
The PMOs confirmed during Loan negotiations compliance with the compensation standards stated in
the RAP in accordance with the appropriate local and national regulations. In doing so, current
compensation standards for all Project areas will be made uniform, and supplementary compensation to
resettlers already compensated at the lower standards will be made to the RAP standards. All
compensation will meet at least replacement costs and in general be more than replacement costs to meet
livelihood needs.
The County/Township ROs have agreed to carry out land readjustment and provide land/productive
compensation as soon as possible in accordance with the guidelines and standards specified in the RAP
which willfund improvement and agricultural extension activities to improve the productivity of the land
available to resettlers after relocation.
*   Disbursement scheduling in most instances has been linked to the commencement of
demolition of existing houses, leaving no time for resettlers to construct replacement
housing in advance of relocation and thus extending periods of temporary accommodation.
Commencement of disbursement a minimum of three months in advance of demolition to allow for house
completion before demolition, thus avoiding (or at least minimizing) any need for temporary
accommodation.
In accordance with the policies and procedures described in the RAP, the following commitments were
made during Loan negotiations:
(a)       Appointment of independent monitoring and evaluation organizations and supervisors for
resettlement by September 15, 2000.
(b)       Agreements to be made with all affected households, enterprises and villages (for both future
resettlement and in areas where resettlement has already commenced).
(c)       Arrangement of relevant land tax, levy and grain quota reductions where appropriate for
resettlers.
- 127 -



(e)                 Arrangement for the exemption of resettlers from  the requisite annual labor on dike
maintenance in the year of resettlement.
Gi                  Immediate preparation and issuance of the resettlement entitlement booklets which describe
compensation standards and other entitlements, the grievance process, income restoration programs,
and the responsibilities of both resettlers and resettlement implementing organizations in realizing the
RAP.
Table 1 Summary of Affected Structures, Fixed Assets and Population
Item                                                            Unit          Hubei            Runan                       rotal
Affected Cities/Counties/Districts                              Units                      15                           7                   22
Affected Townships                                              Units                      31                          13                  44
Affected Villages                                              Units                      128                          52                10
4. fifdetdgmem,en
Al. Households to be resettled                                 HH                       6,494                      4.464               10.958
Urban Households                                                HH                      2.214                                           2,214
A2. Population to be resetded                                  People                 28,779                      19.213               47,992
Urban Pesettler                                                People                   9,649                                           9,649
A3. Houses needtd to be resetted                               m                     SS3,5S7                 979,427.50            1,763,015
A3.1 House of enterprises                                      m                     144,237                  99,686.18              243,923
Frame-structure                                                 m                       7,566                                           7,566
Brick-concrete-structure                                        m                     96,171                  50,289.70              146,461
Brick-wood structure                                            m                     37.063                  44,628.48                81,691
Wood(earth) strtcture                                           _      _       _                                  212.16                  212
Miscellneous                                                    m                       3,437                   4,555.84                7,993
A3.2 Private house                                                                   739350                  779,741.32             1,519,091
Frame-structure                                                ems                      7,256                                           7.256
Brick-concretestructure                   Im                                  |                              210,157.43              500.268
|Brick-wood-structure                                                                412,463                 373,483.28              795,946
Wood(earth) structure                                           mX                                              9,485.00                9.485
Miscellaneous                                                   m                      29,520                186,615.61              216,136
A4. Other fixed Assets
Fene wall                                                       m                                                 87,386              190,684
Ground                                                          m                    292,982                 160,030.70              453,013
Water pool                                  _                  Im_                          _                      4,928                4,928
Tower                                                           Pc                         66                                               66
Water well                                                                                201                       1240                1,441
Presd-water well                                                P.                        690                                             690
Tomb                              'n                                                    2,408                      4,408                6,816
Simple building                                                 pc.                     2,639                                           2,639
A5. Trees finc.fmits.timber)                                   stem            .      65.413                    143.903              209.316
R.aad._  mu                                                                            15,172                 18,577.68                33.750
B 1. Irrigadon land                                             mu                      4,497                   3,054.16                7.551
B2. DrY soil                                                    mu                      4363                    7,085.53               11.448
B3. Veeetable land                                              mu                      168.2                   2,738.48                2,907
B4. Water pond                                                  mu                      3,007                   1,213.44                4.220
B5. Frost                                                       mu                      1,471                   2,442.63                3,913
B6. Hacienda                                                    mu                                                466.25                  466
B7. Land for house                                              mu                                              1,577.19                1577
B8. Miscellameous                                               mu                   1666.33                                             1,666
Cl. Traffic facilides
a. Concrete road surface                                        km                      38.39                                               38
b. Simple road                                                  km                     106.89                      69.24                   176
c. Machine-plough road                                         Ian                                                 43.62                    44
C2. Electrical facilities
a. Low voltage transmission line                                km                    225.44                      124.72                  350
b. 10 kV electrical transmission line                           km                      93.52                        49.6                 143
c. 35 kV electrical transsission line                          Ian                       19.8                                               20
d. transformation device                                        Dc                                                     97                   97
C3. telephone line                                                                    366.89                      109.59                  476
C4. broadcasting & TV line                                     km                     230.14                       23.68                  254
CS. water mains                                                 km                     101.22                         3.9                 105
C6. Iron Tower                                                  Pc.                          7                                               7
- 128-



Table 2: Impact on the Affected Areas Due to Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Province   County    Villages    Information of effected area     Occupied land and resettlement  Percentage of occupie land and reseatlemen
Province    County    effected  Household    Population    Arable land Household Population Arable land Household Population Arable land
Hunan              7        52       16,405       72,898  114,815.61    4,464    19,213  10,780.07        27        26         9
Linxiang            9        4,725        20,250  35,870.00     1,738     7,447  2,763.25        37        37         8
Yunxi               8        2,461        10,753   15,301.00     541      2,363   1,397.00       22        22         9
Junshan             9        2,123         7,446  13,159.00      729      2,556    917.07        34        34         7
HuanRaai            4        1,069         5,241   3,732.61      314      1,539    437.60        29        29        12
Junshan             7        1,915        11,524   17,004.00     234      1,408   1,350.35       12        12         8
Huarong            14        4,112        17,684  29,749.00      899      3,871   3,528.00       22        22        12
Jianxin             1                                              9        29    386.80
Hubei        15            156       54,303      218,576 300,766.95     6,494    28,779  9,028.00         12        13         3
Jingzhou          5        1,208        5,160   7,484.85       314      1,412    535.00        26        27         7
Songzi           1          647        2,633   4,171.00         8        33      70.00         1         1         2
Gong'an         31        16,349       77393 109,802                           3228.00 66633
Shishou         29         8,256       32,567  40,212.00     2,300     9,740  22303.00         28       30         6
Hannan          21         6,574       23,565  62,737.00       771     3,423    283.00         12       15        0.5
Caidian          7          494         1,999   3,393.00        17       81    782.00          3         4        23
Zhuankou          7         1,633        6,082   5,514.00       245               91.00         15       18         2
Hongshan          18        5,681       19,974  24,491.80        83       496     62.00          1        2        0.3
_______  Hanyang            5         1,295        5,180   4,481.80       351     1,441    210.00         27.       28         5
Jiangxia          8        3,640       13,084  11,657.50       239      1       364.00          7        11         3
E'zhou           3        1,613         6,180   4,691.00      403      2,041    810.00        25        33        17
Huangzhou         12        5,517        19,703  19,201.00      364      1,497    197.00         7         8         1
Tuanfeng          3         1,396        5,056   2,930.00      288      1,361     93.00      20.6      26.9       3.2
Qingshan          1                                             80       280
Wuchang           5                                             25        110
Total in the Project Area  208       70,708      291,474 415,582.56    10,958    47,992  19,808.07      15.5      16.5       4.8
- 129 -



Table 3: Resettlement Entitlement Matrix
Impact          Affected            Compensation Policy                  Other Measures
Entity
Loss of arable    Arable land,        QL Provision of equivalent land      O   Readjustment of village land
land resulting   vegetable garden,       nearby (if available);            within affected villages and host
from permanent   trees and orchard    O  Cash compensation to village for    villages where applicable;
land acquisition    areas,      arable land for both more and less    0   Use of cash compensation for
land acquisition    areas,
reservoirs/ponds,      than I mu/family categories       farm intensification, crop
in the path     (compensation unit prices based   diversification and other land
locatede               on output value of cultivated land,   development and agricultural
odyengthenig aland compensation times and                extension techniques for more
strengthening and      relative land management          efficient use of land.
worker population      regulations);
working these   L0  Detailed compensation rates in
land areas             Table 3-2.
Loss of land     Arable and           0 Compensation for temporary land    0   Return of temporary land to the
from temporary    cultivable land        acquisition based on the annual   land user after use.
land acquisition   located in the path   output of the leased land plus the
of dyke                costs associated with land
strengthening          preparation and re-cultivation;
s  Detailed compensation rates in
Table 3-2.
Loss of          Housing and          0  Compensation for housing          0   Building materials may be
settlements       auxiliary buildings    including private housing (rural  salvaged from old housing or
(including       in the path of dyke     and urban);                       enterprise building to be utilized in
housing,          strengthening and    0 Replacement land for households    new structures;
auxiliary  th residentialto be provided within the original    0l Assistance to be provided to the
auxiliary        the residential         village (internal settlement), if  resettlers in procurement of labor and
scatered trees      in the houses        available;                        material for construction of new
and transfer      i    h                 If replacement land not available    housing;
subsidy)                                 provide alternative               0   Provisions to be made for
household/enterprise location as  temporary housing and financial
close to the original location as  assistance accorded where rental
possible (collective resettlement);   support needed for temporary
O House-for house replacement in     accommodation;
urban areas;                      0   Transportation/relocation
O  Cash compensation based on        allowance to be provided to the
original house area to urban      resettlers on household basis.
resettlers;
O Detailed compensation rates in
Table 3-2.
Loss of crops     Crops located in    0I Cash compensation to affected     0   Crop loss to be minimized to the
the path of dyke       farmers based on the average of   extent possible by avoiding
strengthening          the previous three years          acquisition during harvesting
production value
- 130-



Loss of          Enterprise and     O Compensation for land and         U  Provision for continuance of
enterprises      workers employed      reconstruction of enterprises'   employment of workers affected from
with the              structure/buildings and facilities;    enterprise relocation during the
enterprises        0 Compensation for loss in         transition period through provision of
production and relocation of    temporary premises, or compensation
enterprises;                    for lost wages.
U Detailed compensation rates in
Table 3-2.
Loss of          Water supply,      O  Compensation for reconstruction
/reconnection to water supply/
utilities        sanitation in         electricity! sanitation (previous
resettled houses      infrastructure);
andsettledrprses   U Detailed compensation rates in
and enterprises       Table 3-2.
Loss of public   Roads, power       U  Compensation to                  O  Prompt allocation of land for
infrastructure   supply, water         owners/operators for             reconstruction of public infrastructure
supply,               infrastructure replacement;     including labor and material.
telecoynmunication   L Detailed compensation rates in
and media             Table 3-2.
broadcast facilities
in the affected
areas
Impact to        Elderly, orphans,    U Additional cash allowances      U  Prompt payment to vulnerable
vulnerable       widows, and           provided to vulnerable and       and economically disadvantaged
groups           female headed         economically disadvantaged       groups early in the resettlement
households being      groups;                          process.
resettled          U  Detailed compensation rates in
Table 3-2
Loss of cultural   No significant   U Not applicable                    O  Not applicable
property        impacts arising
from the Project
Based on:
(a)     Land Management Act of the People's Republic of China 1998
(b)     Water Act of the People's Republic of China 1988
(c)     Land Compensation and Resettlement Regulation for Large and Medium-Sized Water Conservancy & Hydropower
Projects, State Council promulgated Order No. 74, February 15, 1991
(d)     Design Regulation for Flooded Reservoir Area Treatment at Water Conservancy and Hydropower Projects, 1985, the
Ministry of Hydropower
(e)     Investigation Details for the Reservoir-flooded Physical Substances at Water Conservancy and Hydropower Project,
the Ministry of Hydropower, 1986
Wfl     Standards for Village/lTown Planning, the Ministry of Construction, September 27, 1993, 2) Classification of
Villages and Towns; 4) Standards for Construction-occupied Land, Chapter 4, Land for National Construction
(h)     Hubei Province Land Management Implementation Method, Hubei Province, September 3, 1987
(i)    Jiangxi Province Implementation of Land Management Act, July 15, 1989, Chapter 4 - Land for use in State
Construction
- 131 -



Table 4: YDSP Resettlement Compensation Standards
Description                       Unit                    Unit price (Yuan)
I Hunan     |           Hubei
SETTLEMENTS
I Buildings
Public Buildings                                                                  Wuhan/Other
Framework                                             m2                        800/N/A
Brick-concrete                                       or2            345         450/320
Brick-wood                                            Ml            260         350/260
Clay/wood                                             in'            1          -
Miscellaneous                                         in2             60        100170
Private House                                                                     Rual/ other urban/Wuban
Frame-work                                            m2                        700 in Wuhan
Brick-concrete                                        m2 a       * ij           270/320/410
Brick-wood                                            m2            203         240/260/320
Clay/wood                                             112           153
Miscellaneous                                         M2              50        60/70/100
2. Auxiliaries
Private-owned                                                                     Rural area/town
Fence           _      _m2                                           20         24126
Sun-drying ground                                     mw             12         20122
Water pond                                            n?_            80
Well                                                 pce                        1,000/1,000
pressure well                                         pce             70        2001200
Simvle stuctare                                       pe _    _                 50/50
Tomb                                                  pce            100        190/190
Public-owned_                   _
Concrete_______________Fence_______                            __rn________28
Concret Ground              M=                                                   25
Water Tower                                          item                        6,000
Well                                  -___pce                         2__        ,000
Simple StmuctuTes                                |_                   _ce  _       60
3 Trees                                                  pce  |        20            30
4 Resettlement Subsid                                                             Rural/urban per HH
Town                                               ___
Materials Relocaton                                  person           50         5001550
Materials Loss                                       person           if)        350/450
For work delay                                       person          100         400/500
5 Reconstruct Public Facilities________
Land acquisition in resettlement area                 mu   r          _          N/A n/700/1 0i0oo
Land leveling                                        person                      390/200/330
Roads                                                person          !           60/70/320'
Tap water                                            person  |                   60/70nOO2
Drainage                                             person                      50/50/160
Power supply                                         person    _80/80/180_
Others                                               person                      50/50/205
6 Other Coinpensation                                                              _
RS area township constsucton                          HH                           3 00
Subsidy for moving to towns                           HH                        3_50
7 Vulnerable Groups Housine                             HH
Elderly orphans and widows                            HE                           3,00
Female headed or labour short households              HH                           4,000
LAND COMPENSATION
I Per capita cultivated land < 1 mu                                               Regular area/Wuhan
(I) Paddy field                                         mu         R 409          8,832/13,248
(2) Dry land                                            mu         5n  7          5,754/8,631
(3) Market garden                                       mu         8,409          13,200/29,80O
(4) Water pond                                          mu         8,409          8,250/13,200
(5) Forest land                                         mu          3,835         3,600/6.750
(6) Garden plot                                         mu          5,990
(7) House Plot                                          mu         'A 4Sf
(8) Other land                                          mu    _        _          13.200/3.200
- 132 -



2 Per capita cultivated > I mu                            mu
(1) Paddy field                                           nut                   6,932 9,832/13,248
(2) Dry land                                              un                    3,854 5,75418,631
(3) Market garden                                         mu                    6,932 13,200/29,800
(4) Waterpond                                             mu                    6,932 8,250/13,200
(5) Forest land                                           mu                    3,835 3,600/6,750
(6) Garden plot                                           mu                    3,835
(7) House Plot                                            mu                    4,425
3 Temporary land requisition                              mu
Cultivated land                                          mu                             1.800
4. Green crops                                            mu                              500
SPECIAL FACILITIES   INFRASTRUCTURE
I Roads                                                   km      _                    250.000
2 Simple Roads                                            km                  169,038   170,000
3 Tractor Road                                            Iam                  12,531
4 Power facilities                                        kmI
(I) Low-voltage lines                                     kmn
380v trnsmission line                                   km      _                     12,000
220v transmission line                                  km                    9,127  9000
(2) High-voltage lines                                    km
35kv transmission lne                                   km              _            35,000
10kv transuassion line                                  km                   22,525  23 00(
(3) Transforming facilities                                set                  3,000
5 Telecommunication Lines                                 km                   12,860   13,000
6 Broadcasting Lines                                     akm                    8,000 _  8 oo
7 Cable T.V Lines                                         kan                            10,000
8 Steel Tower                                             pole                          150,000
9 Tap Water Trunk Lines                                   km                   50,000    70,000
1. Move nearby(intemal resettlement)tTownship building (collective resettlement of urban resettlers)lTownships(uwban)
-133-



Table 5: YDSP Resettler Income Restoration Planning
Improvement of           Improvement of
Resettled         Village Lands         Lands (inlcuding land      Resettlement        Resettled into
Province     County (city,          by                                   transfer from other        into Animal      Vilage Enterprise        Tot
district, farm)    producion                                                            Husbandry           and Tertiary
(person)      Area      Populatson      Area       opulation         (person)        Industry (person)
(mu)       resettled      (mu)      rsne
. ____    __                (Pg )                    (nerson)    .                    .
Hubei                     15          5,501    56,629            3,775                                         367                  1,362       5,504
Jiangzhou                340      3,291             219                                           20                  101          340
Songzi                  45       678               45                                                                             45
Gong'an                396      5,946             396                                                                             396
Sbhshou                146      2,194             146                                                                             146
Caidiuan               233      3,498             233                                                                             233
Xinzhou               1,822    18,770            1,251                                         191                   381        1,823
Huangpi                248      3,482              232                                           16                               248
Zhuankou                 72      1,086               72                                                                             72
Jiangxia               316      4,744              316                                                                            316
Hongshan                127      1,232               82                                          20                    25          127
Jiangan                  41       621               41                                                                             41
Hanyang                 258      3,024             202                                           20                    36         258
E'zhou               1,122     3,881              259     463                                   60                  803        1,122
Huangzhou                169      2,076             138                                           20                    11         169
Tuanfeng                165      2,106             140                                           20                     5          165
Hunan                      6          6,208    52,763            5,077    1,227             893                                      238        6,208
linxiang city           1,692    16,636            1,368     378              286                                       38        1,692
Yunxi district          1,058      9,291             776      284             280                                         2        1,058
Junshan farm              234      3,161             234 _                                                                           234
Huanggaihu farm             166      1,350             166                                                                             166
Junshan district           753      7,975              753                                                                            753
Huarong county           2,305    14,350             1,780     565              327                                      198        2,305
TotalofProjectArea                   11,709   109,391            8,852    1,227             893                367                  1,600      11,712
- 134 -



Table 6: Summary of Resettlement Costs (1,000 yuan)
lUlinqn   -1ith i  --                      Tal   -
|   .                     ~~~~ ~ ~          ~ ~~~~~Cost  %  Cost  %    Cost 
1 ReIpe2tipn Cnqts           .........259,07&70 .52      249,611-AS  .37    -Nl8.6R&fRS 0   44
l l T Tmge"Z                     214q1 1 1;1 n            139 611 11   =       R2 74? 73 =
1 2 Enterpriseq                    7-1l  4n        _             4R           14-,47R    _ 
I I Attpi me-nts,                      A4Rsvn              In nSm I         _,  IA PR, AC,=
1 4 Snh-idy for the Pnnr                -9 -_               1 n7 nn             1 776nn  __
q1i,frtnirctlre                                -                     -R61 n  1= 861J n   =
1 h Other                                       -RR3n SR _                        944 OR
2 Land Crnpenltinn                    94O869.13f             21 nns92-34   A 7   V4si9664  ?.2h.
3 Pihlie Iffilitips                  16,79s1-7TL 3          79,7o916,   17,     o6nxlw 14   X
I. 1nning+ M nns gem ent            33,19j-5f)   7   I     3X7            h    71,X76.44   h
4 1 S,RnrvcX+P1gnning                qs76R 4(                n7Rnn             M44R 40
7 ImpI ement.t nn Management       I 1J I-?? In         1J617 nn   -        . 11.1. 4    1 -
13 Teehnir.nI Tr-ining              3 S35L                 1 -        -        5nn  5D -if)
4 4 qiiperviqinn                      7074                    2nil -An   =      s,04J7     -
4 5 Mmnitaring + Fvad,uation         2 s92fl    -           3.77n 0f  -         6,36h 2L
4 I  Re'Pett1ement Panel             1 1 1 7    -n      .    nnnnn   =                M 1 1 9 .n   =
14 7 Other                           l RR 70                                    1 RSI -    _
Osntigene  Cactc     s 4          1          S&2.1   13         1h637L161  1fi
5 1 Rasic                          39R17 sn                                  .2 97.5SR7   -
incl Weak GTrnip Snlh-idy             S76 nn   =94sf0n                          1 066nn0   =
S 9 Prire Diffprenne                s73ss4                 R3D        _        RR-16ss    _
I TOTA I                              501,664.6n)            666265-49 -   1,16Z9s30-09
- 135-



Figure 1: Provincial Resettlement Management Structure
Figure 2: Coordination and External Monitoring (ORC and POE)
ORC
Overall Resettlement Coordination Commnittee
(Imember from each PRO)
Infonnal AssoctatEon
City/County   RO          C ty/Count    R      . ..................................... .....-
RS Village                RS Village 
Note: ORC.: Overall Resettlement Coordinator; RO: Resettlement Office; MWR: Ministry of Water Resources; PRO: Provincial
Resettlement Office; CWRCe Yangtze Water Resource Commission; IMEO: Independent Monitoring and Evaluation Organization;
RS: Resettlement Supervisor; EMO: Environmental Management Office; PMO: Project Management Office; PPlI: Project Planning
Institute; POE: Panel of Experts
-136 -



Figure: 3 Resettlement Implementation Schedule
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
ID Task Name                                         Duratio o 24 32j 314
1   Preparation of Mid Yangtze River Flood Control I     loo -
2       Bank Procedure for Project Preparation           97.5    _
1 3     Revisioin of Design, by the Project Implemnents  49.75 
20       Procurement Procedure of Civil Works            46.25 N
80  River Bank Protection, CWRC                          99.7                                -
81      Within Hubei Province                            99.7 A
82           Jingnan Section                             99.4 M 
91           Wahan Section                               60.4 v
1 OC         Bapu Section                                 95.2 M
i Q     C H    uanggang Section                           69.2 is
117      Within Hunan Province                             84 w                              -
11i          Minsheng Polder Section, from 0+000 to        84 w
1 2,         Jianshe Polder Section, from 32+724t0 S      49.5 M_
132          Jianxin Polder Section, from 51+012 to 5      33 w
1 4C         Junshan Farm Section, from 53+975 to 7       53.5                M 
I4        r Yongji Polder Section, from 78+200 to 8f      70.5 m is
153          Luchang Polder Section, from 86+380 to       56.5 Mi
1   ~ Jiangnan Polder Section, from 109+1 10 t      28w
162          Huauggaihu Farm Section, from 136+04'        26.9 M
1 7C Dike Rehabilitation, Hubei Province                 123.4                                                        -
171      Jingnan Dyke                                    117.7                                            -
184      Wuhan Dike                                      123.4                                                        -
197      Bapu Dike                                       113.4                                            -      
208   Huanggang dike                                      93.3 M                                          a
22C Dike Rehabilitation Works, Hunan Province            154.25_
221      Minsheng Polder Section, from 0+000 to 32+6     128.5                                         _
24r      Jianshe Polder Section, from 32+724 to 51+01      90                                             a 
261      Jianxin Polder Section, from 51+012 to 53+97     51.5 'A
293      Junshan Farm Section, from 53+975 to 76+80      122.55'                                                    _
31          1 Yongji Polder Section, from 78+200 to 86+384  78.25                                         a
34E      Luchang Polder Section, from 86+380 to 109+      100
373      Jiangnan Polder Section, from 109+110 to 131      97 w
391      Huanggaihu Farm Section, from 136+044 to 1       62.5 M
422      Ponds Backfill, Wrapping                          58 w
427      Office Equipment & Vehicles                     72.45 N                     r
- 137 -



1999   2000    2001    2002   2003   200.
ID TaskName                                                         Duration 2F314  2                  12T3 4 1|2|3 4 1|2|34 1|2F3
220  Dike RebabIitation Works, Hunsm Province                            154.25w w
221        Mlnsheng Polder Section, from 0+000 to 32+624                  128.5w w
245        Jianshe Potder Section, from  32+724 to 51+012                   90 wi _
269        Jianxin Polder Section, from 51+012 to 53+975                  51.5 wI             _
293        Junshan Farm Section, from 53+975 to 76+800                   122.55w w
319        Yongii Polder Section, from 78+200 to 86+380                  78.25 w                             i            M..
346        Luchang Polder Section, from 86+380 to 109+110                  100 wI
373        Jiangnan Polder Section, from 109+110 to 136+044                97 wi                                        -
398        Husaggaihnu Fann Section, from 136+044 to 142+055              62.5 wi
422        Ponds Backill, Wrapping                                         58 w'
427        Office Equipment & Vehicles                                   72.45 w
437  YDSP Resettlement                                                   190.2w w                                                    -
438         Hunan Province                                               190.2 w     r                      -           -
439             Preparation                                                 30 wi   ir -
441             Execution                                                 169.2 w                                              
442                   Huarong County                                      128.4 w
465                   Junshan District                                                                      -           -7,w
483                   Junshan Farm                                       131.6 w                                               
502                  Yunxi District                                      135.6 w-
523                   Lioxiang City                                       160.2w                            -           -            -
546                  HEuanggaihu Farm                                     73.6 wl
566                  Jianxin Farm                                          54 wi,
578         Hubei Province                                                159.6w                        -               -
579             Preparation                                                30 wi,
581             Execution                                                138.6w w                           _
582                  Jlngzhou Prefecture                                 128.4w w
605                  Wuhan City                                           117.6w w 
623                   Erhou City                                          131.6 w                 ir
642                  Huanggong City                                       135.6w                            -           -
-138-



Additional
Annex No.: 13
YANGTZE DIKE STRENGTHENING PROJECT
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
I. Background
This report is the result of a financial management review and analysis of the Project as conducted by
Wu Ning, Consultant, in March 2000, supervised by Youhua Yu, Senior Disbursement Specialist,
EACCF and further reviewed by Nancy Chen, Financial Management Specialist, EAPCO, to determine
whether the Project has in place an adequate financial management system as required by the Bank
OP/BP 10.02. The review was performed in accordance with the following:
*   Guide for Review and Design of Accounting and Reporting System for World Bank
Projects (Prepared by Central Operational Services Unit, East Asia and Pacific
Region, December 1997);
*   Review of Financial Management System  as stipulated in Annex II of LACI
Implementation Handbook; and
*   Project Financial Management Manual issued by the Loan Department, February
1999.
The review consequently included procedures as were considered necessary and appropriate to the
Project's circumstances, including site visits, discussions and observations. As a result, the task team
has discussed and reviewed with Provincial Finance Bureaus, Water Conservancy Bureaus, Provincial
Planning Commission and other implementing agencies the plans, procedures and guidelines for
establishing a sound project financial management system, inter alia, accounting system, staffing and
training programs, internal controls, project reporting, auditing and budgeting procedures.
II. Organization of Project Financial Management
This Project is a Central Government undertaking to be implemented by two provinces: Hubei and
Hunan, and by Changjiang Water Resources Commission (CWRC), which is organized under the
Ministry of Water Resources (MWR). A Central Project Coordination Office (CPCO) will be
established under MWR to oversee Project implementation and provide coordination between the two
participating provinces (See Attachment 1).
The provinces have established Project Leading Groups (PPLG), which are chaired by the
Vice-Governors. Under the PLGs Provincial Project Management Offices (PPMO) have been
established to oversee the preparation of annual work programs, oversight the procurement and
itnplementation progress, funds management and coordination between provincial agencies and the
Bank. The PPMOs will also serve as the secretariat of the PLGs. The PPMOs have the following
divisions:
*   Comprehensive affairs;
*   Finance and accounting;
*   Engineering;
- 139 -



*  Procurement; and
*   Environment and resettlement.
Hubei Province   The implementation of Project works will be entrusted to the owner organizations,
which are the Dike Management Offices or in some cases the Water Resources Bureaus at local
govermnent levels.
Hunan Province Yueyang is the only project city and the Yueyang Project Management Office
(YPMO) has been established to represent the Province as the owner for implementing Project works
and be responsible for Project implementation, quality assurance and consolidation of Project accounts.
For purpose of coordination of Project implementation, PMOs have been established at each city and
county, respectively.
The Provincial Finance Bureaus (PPFB) and the PPMOs in Hubei and Hunan Provinces, respectively,
all have experience with implementing World Bank-financed projects (e.g. the Yangtze Basin Water
Resources Project, the Yangtze Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project) and therefore are familiar
with the existing disbursement, procurement, financial reporting and auditing requirements. PFB has
accumulated extensive experience with both the Bank and MOF's requirements in preparation and
processing of withdrawal application and financial management of Bank-financed projects. However,
additional training will be provided to Project staff at all levels (see Section VI: Staffmg and Training).
See Attachments 2 and 3: Organization Chart for Hubei and Hunan, respectively.
CWRC has established their Project Leading Group (CWRCPLG) for the River Modeling studies.
Under CWRCPLG there is a Project Management Office (CWRCPMO) which is attached to
Changjiang Science Institute. CWRCPMO consists of an Advisory Group and the following four (4)
divisions:
3   Comprehensive affairs;
i   Planning, finance and accounting;
e   Scientific research and technology;
i  Engineering.
m. Loan Disbursement Arrangements
The Bank loan will be disbursed based on traditional disbursement techniques. The Project will not be
using PMR-based disbursements, as agreed between the Bank and Ministry of Finance (MOF).
In accordance with the Implementation Agreement reached between MOF, MWR and Project
provinces, MOF will manage, monitor and maintain the Special Account (SA). MOF will reconcile the
SA, check and monitor withdrawal applications and verify payment requests to meet Bank
requirements. Applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the loan and for replenishment of SA will
be prepared and submitted to the Bank by MOF. For purposes of channeling funds from MOF to the
County levels, each Province, City and County will use the Finance Bureaus. The County PMOs
will verify the accuracy and validity of expenses submitted and progress reported, and prepare
requests for payment. The applications will be further reviewed and approved by the County Finance
Bureau before submitting to a higher level PMO for approval. Eventually the requests for payment
will be submitted by MOF to the Bank. See Attachment 2A and 2B: Flowchart of Withdrawal
-140 -



Applications and Project Funding for Hubei and Hunan, respectively. Original invoices and backup
documentation will be retained at points of initiation. MOF will retain copies of withdrawal
applications and copies of supporting documents.
IV. Financial and Accounting System
From July 1, 1998, according to MOF's documentation, the Bank-financed Projects in the People's
Republic of China will follow the "Accounting Procedures for World Bank-Financed Projects" issued
by MOF as a basis for bookkeeping and preparation of financial statements and Project reports. These
procedures dictate the format of financial statements, Chart of Accounts and related instructions which
would therefore affect Project accounting and reporting requirements. Accrual accounting and double
entry basis will be adopted. Project accounts will be maintained by County PMOs, consolidated by
City PMOs and further consolidated and submitted by PPMOs on a semi-annual basis to the Bank, by
October 1 and April 10 covering the first and second half of the year, respectively. As accounting
software has been developed under the supervision of MOF and the Bank's Beijing's Country office,
Hubei's Provincial Finance Bureau (PFB) and CWRCPMO agreed to adopt this software for
accounting purposes. However, because of limited computer skills in the Project's city and county
PMOs, Hunan's PFB decided to use the traditional way of bookkeeping.
V. Internal Controls
A well designed internal control system is one of the key elements critical to the success of a project.
Financial management manuals (the Manuals) are jointly prepared by the PPMOs and PFBs, and by
CWRCPMO, respectively. The objective of the Manuals is to document the operational procedures
and guidelines for Project financial management, encompassing all levels of Project management. The
scope of the Manual will encompass the following key elements:
3  Project financial management structure and staffing (e.g. job descriptions);
3  Identification of the accounting standards to be used by the Project and all the
participating agencies (e.g. tailored Chart of Accounts to project specifics and sample
accounting treatments);
i  Key internal control features such as a system of authorization, verification,
reconciliation and Project reporting to provide adequate control over Project costs,
cash and asset management and segregation of incompatible duties;
*  Reporting formats tailored to Project specifics;
*  Procedures for procurement, disbursement and counterpart fund management;
*  Budgetary procedures; and
*  Auditing arrangements
The final draft Manuals have been reviewed by the Bank and have been finalized prior to Loan
negotiations in Washington.
In accordance with BP 10.02 paragraph 6, the task team reviewed the status of compliance by the
Borrower and Project implementing entities with audit covenants in existing Bank-financed Projects.
The major findings of the audits were:
*  Hunan Project Area - no areas of significant non-compliance or material weaknesses
came to the auditors' attention.
*  Hubei Project Area - the auditors noted a series of unsupported costs and material
- 141 -



control weaknesses. A letter addressing the Hubei audit issues was sent and the task
team responded during the October 1999 supervision mission that the irregularities
will be corrected.
Although the audited projects were appraised before July 1998, managed by a different task team and
the implementing agencies different from that of the current Project, the leadership structure is similar:
both projects involve the Ministry of Water Resources and Provincial Planning Commission. The
issues raised in the audit report present a risk that similar issues could repeat themselves. It is
important to take appropriate preventive measures so that such risks can be mitigated. Therefore, this
issue was discussed with the Hubei PMOs during appraisal and a strong message was sent that the
Bank is serious about financial management and that mis-use of Project funds is prohibited.
VI. Staffing and Training
The PMOs at all levels have been established and are fully staffed. In order to have sound financial
management of the Project, the staff of each lower level PMO (both at the City and County level)
includes at least one Project accountant who has overall responsibility for maintaining the Project
accounts and preparing financial statements, and one cashier who processes cash receipts and
expenditures. CVs for the accountants and cashiers of PMOs at all levels were provided for review by
the Bank. The institutional arrangements for Project management and implementation have been
established and staff assigned. The names of key financial staff at various levels have been provided to
the Bank for review.
The task team has recommended that well designed and focused training be provided by the PFB and
PPMO during the Project Launch Workshop, to ensure that staff understands the Project's financial
management system and requirements. This training should include the following features:
*   Bank procedures and the Project's financial management procedures for withdrawal of
Bank funds;
*   Overview of the Project's financial statement formats;
*   Review of the Project's Financial Management System Manual;
*   Procurement procedures; and
*   Project audit requirements.
PFBs intend to hold separate workshops focusing on the accounting procedures and the use of
accounting software.
VII. Project Reporting Requirements
The format and content of the following Project financial statements represent the standard project
reporting package agreed between the Bank and MOF. These formats have been discussed and agreed
with all parties concerned. The Project financial statements will be submitted to the Bank by MOF on
a semi-annual basis, February I and August 1 of each year, and include the following four statements:
*   Balance Sheet;
*   Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Component;
*   Statement of Implementation of Loan Agreement; and
*   Statement of Special Account
- 142 -



VIII. Audit Arrangements
The Bank requires the Project financial statements to be audited in accordance with standards
acceptable to the Bank. In line with other Bank financed Projects in China, the Project will be audited
in accordance with Government Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of China (1997 edition).
The National Audit Office (NAO) will be the auditor of the Project. NAO will entrust Hunan and
Hubei Provincial Audit Offices to audit the implementation of the project in their provinces,
respectively. The Representative Office of NAO in Wuhan will audit CWRCPMO. NAO will audit
the SA and the financial statements consolidated by MOF. The audit including opinions on financial
statements, Special Account and Statement of Expenditures will be scheduled for submission to the
Bank by MOF within 6 months after the end of the calendar year.
IX. Budgeting
The Project's budget will be prepared annually by the PMOs based on submissions prepared by the
implementing agencies. The budget prepared at each government level will be submitted to the Finance
Bureau for approval at the same level. PPMOs will consolidate budgets approved and submit for the
Bank review and approval by April 1 of each year. All counterpart funds will be channeled to the
PMOs and implementing agencies through local the Finance Bureaus. Details of budget preparation
and approval procedures are to be given in the Manual, which are to serve as guidance for all parties
involved.
X.  Conclusion
The task team has determined that the Project satisfies the Bank's financial management requirements
as stipulated in OP/BP 10.02. In the team's opinion, the Project will have in place an adequate Project
financial management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
information on the status of Project implementation through reporting formats agreed with the Project
management office and as required by the Bank. Training of the Project's designated financial staff on
topics indicated in Attachment I below will be carried out during the Project Launch Workshop.
Authorization for MOF to open the Special Account (SA) for the Project will be obtained by Loan
effectiveness.
- 143 -



Attachment I
China: Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project
Proposed Action Plan
(March 2000)
Description                        Responsibilty                          Target Date
A. Project Financial
Management System
Manual
1.                  Establish ajoint working group for the            PPMO/PBF                       Pre -appraisal (Completed)
preparation of the Manual
2                   Draft Manual Teviewed by the Bank              PPMOIPBFIBank                    Post Appraisal (Completed)
3.                  The Manual finalized, including the            PPMOlPBF/Bank                            Negotiations
tailored Project financial statements                                         (Completed for both provinces)
provided to the Bank for fwutber review.
4.                  The Manual distnbuted to all relevant             PPMO/PBF                                Board
staff                                                                       (nanual discussed at provincial level.
Please note that these two provinces have
prepared several manuals for several of
.__ ___ ___ ___ ___   ______ _the Bank projects)
B.Staffing & Internal
Controls
CVs of accountants to be hired by the            PPMO/Bank                            Post Appraisal
city/county PMOs provided to the Bank
for review.                                                                            (Completed
All CV's at PPMO level and many of
the counties. Alnost all the lower and
higher level departmnents have been
established and staff are in place)
2                  Inform Hubei PMOs about the issues                 BanldPMO                            Post Appraisal
identified in a different project in Hubei                                   (Completed-However the issue of
and emphasize the importance of                                             mismanagement occurred over a very
financial management                                                        small componen, for which procedures
.____________________________  _____________________________  were  not clearly  established)
C. Training
l                  Project Launch workshop to all-related          PPMO/PBF/Bank                              Board
staff on:
a. Bank and the Project financial
management requirements including
withdrawal of Bank fends
b. Project financial statements formiats
c. Project Financial Management
Systems Manual
d. Project audit requirements
e. Procurement procedures
D. Special Account
Obtain domestic clearances for opening               PFB                             By effectiveness
of SA
2.                  Authorized signatures sent to MOF and              PFB/MOF                            By effectiveness
Bank
3                   First withdrawal application sent to the             PBF                            After effectiveness
Bank for initial deposit
Attachments:
2. Organization Chart
3. Flowchart of Bank Withdrawal Applications and Project Funding
-144 -



YANGTZE DIKE STRENGTHENING PROJECT
Flowchart of Bank Withdrawal Applications and Project Funding
Hubei Province
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
(SDP::> fOFf M-YtR)WORLD BANR.
(SPC MO, MWR)
Ministry of Water   I
Resources                MinisUy of Finanoe
,. I                         - ,___
ProvincialProject                      Legend:
Leading Group                          .
Cash Flow, including Bank
IF    r Loan and Counterpart
Provincial Project                Provincial           Funding
Management Of fice -'            F;ina=ccBureau 
.      ...    .........  ..... ...                 Document Flow  of
Request for Payment
Docurnent Flow of
City Project                     Approved Request for
Leading Group                     Payment
Leading Role
Ct Project                    City Finance Bureau
s   Management Office
.......... ...  ............- ..... ............... . .   .
t   CountProject    6
Lai  Group          f 
L  t   County ProJect            ib        County f:inance
Ma agernent Offlee    \             _Bureau
I   I        ,.................................... ........... .. ..............................
- 145 -



YANGTZE DIKE STRENGTHENING PROJECT
Flowchart of Bank Withdrawal Applications and Project Funding
Hunan Province
f t0:09 b llr~~~~~~~~~Cash Flow,'; including Ban.
T!    g'  e  1,   > r f ,?,,,eques.for  aymen
t 0 000000 000f L;4dv7tgDocument Flow of
: e ~~~~~~~~~~~e    ;       iCasFlwinuding Role
.f._.__I _  _
Yuya             r                                                                      Reqes fe  aytn
t.......  . .............  ....... .........  ...............  ...   .....    ... 
Co_it Payment
FinanceaigRl
........ .. ...... ... .... ................... ........................................ .... . ...
I~ ~~~~-4 -.



IBRD 30696
CHINA                                                                                                                                                             /
YANGTZE DIKE STRENGTHENING PROJECT                                                                                                                                                    r
PROJECT LOCATION                                                                                                                                                         52
PROJECT AREA                                          CULVERT GATES                                                                                                                                             v S       
BASIN BOUNDARIES                                 -    BRIDGES                                                        lLOMETERS                                                                              .                   'f <
-~    KEY D KES                                      C    MAJOR CITIES                                                                                                                                          9           .  t Aaaa*4"%
DIKES                                                 COUNTY SEATS                                                       Th,s op- wa    Uy  ,heaMa DeMgn fB Th Worldbank                                    1a-              t >
BRANCH D KES                                                                                                              Th=--- RAL ROADST'' Th-a-Ia-,U-,hown,hdya --Fi-                   f                        T
RAILROADS                                           lb,-~~~~~~~~~~anManp do nor aply, an Bh parr a!T5  WaU Bank G-op, any
RIVERS                                  ~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCB BOUNDARIES                                       ou       f-nn  enSbuna,;B                                                                 >an    .anf
RESERVOIRS
1;=         _      4                                             116           .,,14                                                              -             120                                             122
__SniE,argk5,?   ,,           '         0,-9                                                                                    'A',  -                                  /,X B,' '''-2,'-''4\
6taonag             1ng  ff
32'                        .ua                    -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              302ng'
HLi 8aASI
E$nea 1  1                                                                                                             Toegltog C'ty          Buanaheng ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /  'n-u k~4g  it
~~ic                       t       ~       ~       ~      ;5                              k5 .y h,J
G~~~~h-~ ~       a               NJC%                   y'Aan
GaeuCqrVa                                  N                                             n16a9k    an Penae                              9iY                                        ~ 
~   aid 01    eNB~ya.nalTon~Bag  ~n/t~e9I;7~IIBiMQ(0nanaa?A
JS~~~~~~~~~R IBRtB 306 9,/J   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
-~  ' -K  -4    ~                                               ~T-                            Baaa    7    /oyBnlnto\a                5JngdIheaD\ 3                                                                                                                  Sea
n'nT-~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ D-,  QDnSnAh~i                                                 '9
J I A                  ~
N  1oBoe                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 20                                223
JUNB 2000






IBRD 30697
CHINA
YANGTZE DIKE STRENGTHENING PROJECT
PROJECT DETAILS
PROJECT DIKES (HUBEI PROVINCE)
n     CULVERT GATES
PROJECT DIKES (HUNAN PROVINCF)                                                                                                                              50                           100                                                          4     '
BRIDGES                                                          ?
OTHER DIKES                                                                                                                                              KILOMETERS                                                            S"
0     MAJOR CITIES
PROJECT AREA
COUNTY SEATS
PRIMARY DIKES                                                                                                                      Th,,       p-d-d by 16 M.p D-i, Jil d Th. W-ld 8-k
TOWNSHIPS
BRANCH DIKES                                                                                                                                 J.  i'I"  16       f T6 W-ld B-k G'.'
RAILROADS
RIVERS
PROVINCE BOUNDARiES
RESERVOIRS
I                J,
11130                                                                                                                                                       116'
1',l 2                                                                                                                                                        5-
31                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    31,
-!4 uj
T                                                                                                                                                                          o-op
w
P'.            c
G-h ub. 4,
C, n g
gk
'Z-1 -g'                                                                                                                                                                                          j
y-                                                                                                                                                                       Wu ci                                          4
-city                                               ui
G                                                                                                                                     C
hu
J,,k., W.chqo
H,,
N-h
Jshashi City,
'c                                                                                                                                                   .    -                                  I     11
L
Zw                                                           Y,
o-                                                                       DI , "'A        -
Eb-h-
x -mg
-I
Adi
T                Al
'T ,hlp
2:
chbi
OLuA.
A,            xi
Y,
YU.Y-9
14'                                               115'                              D.-                11             D6-g)
JUNE 2000



