Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4570 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 10, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4570 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 10, 2000, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
(B)
Part of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower’s 
Provinces of Hubei and Hunan (collectively, the Project Provinces, and 
individually, a Project Province) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as 
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make part of the proceeds of 
the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) 
available to the Project Provinces, as set forth in this Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the agreement of even date 
herewith between the Bank and the Project Provinces (the Project 
Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through December 2, 1997) with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
""Euro’, ‘€’ and ‘EUR’ each means the lawful currency of the 
member states of the 
European Union that adopt the single 
currency in accordance with the Treaty establishing the 
European 
Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union."
(b)
A new paragraph (d) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
“If the Bank shall at any time receive less than the full 
amount then due and payable 
to it under the Loan Agreement, the Bank 
shall have the right to allocate and apply the 
amount so 
received in any manner and for such purposes under the Loan Agreement as 
the Bank 
shall in its sole discretion determine.”
(c)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second 
sentence, the word “radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new 
sentence at the end of the said Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be 
confirmed by mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings wherever used 
herein:
(a)
“Affected Person” means a person who on account of the 
execution of the Project had or would have his or her: (i) standard of 
living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, 
land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other 
fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; 
or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat 
adversely affected, and “Affected Persons” means collectively all persons 
who qualify as an Affected Person.
(b)
“Category” means a category of items as set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)
“CWRC” means the Chang-Jiang Water Resources Commission of 
Page  3
MWR, and any successor thereto. 
(d)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the environmental 
management plan for the Project, acceptable to the Bank, prepared by the 
Research Institute for the Yangtze Water Resources Protection, and dated 
November 1999, as may be revised from time to time pursuant to Part B.2 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(e)
“Hubei” means the Borrower’s Province of Hubei, and any 
successor thereto.
(f)
“Hunan” means the Borrower’s Province of Hunan, and any 
successor thereto.
(g)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and any 
successor thereto.
(h)
 “MWR” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Water Resources, and 
any successor thereto.
(i)
“Project Provinces” means, collectively, Hubei and Hunan; 
and “Project Province” means any of the Project Provinces.
(j)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
the Project Provinces of even date herewith, as the same may be amended 
from time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(k)
“Respective Environmental Management Plan” means: (i) in 
respect of the Borrower, the portion of the Environmental Management Plan 
relating to Part A of the Project; (ii) in respect of Hubei, the portion 
of the Environmental Management Plan relating to its Respective Part of 
the Project; and (iii) in respect of Hunan, the portion of the 
Environmental Management Plan relating to its Respective Part of the 
Project; as the same may be revised from time to time pursuant to Part 
B.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(l)
“Respective Part of the Project” means: (i) in respect of 
the Borrower, Parts A, B(1)(d), D(2) and F(2) of the Project; (ii) in 
respect of Hubei, the activities to be carried out under Parts B (other 
than B(1)(d)), C, D (other than D(2)), E and F (other than F(2)) of the 
Project within its territory; and (iii) in respect of Hunan, the 
activities to be carried out under Parts B (other than B(1)(d)), C, E and 
F (other than F(2)) of the Project within its territory.
(m)
“Respective Resettlement Action Plan” means (i) in respect 
of Hubei, the Resettlement Action Plan, acceptable to the Bank, for its 
Respective Part of the Project; and (ii) in respect of Hunan, the 
Resettlement Action Plan, acceptable to the Bank, for its Respective Part 
of the Project; in each case prepared by the Hunan and Hubei Water 
Conservancy and Hydropower Survey and Design Institute and dated April 
2000, as the same may be revised in accordance with the provisions of 
Part B.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and “Resettlement Plans” means, 
collectively, both such plans.
(n)
“SDPC” means the Borrower’s State Development and Planning 
Commission, and any successor thereto.
(o)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02(b) of this Agreement.
Page  4
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the 
Project implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to each of 
the Project Provinces.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to two hundred ten million Dollars ($210,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in 
respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and 
maintain in Dollars, a special deposit account in a commercial bank 
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, each Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this 
Agreement to, but 
excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, 
the London interbank 
offered rate for six-month 
deposits in dollars for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
Page  5
preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus 
(or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, 
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a 
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new 
basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, and, to this end:  (i) shall (A) carry out its 
Respective Part of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and 
environmental practices, and (B) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for its Respective Part 
of the Project; and (ii) without limitation or restriction upon any of 
its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall (A) cause the 
Project Provinces to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all of their respective obligations therein set forth, 
(B) take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable the Project Provinces to perform such obligations, and (C) not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
For the purposes of carrying out each Project Province’s 
Respective Part of the Project, the Borrower shall make available to said 
Project Province part of the proceeds of the Loan.
Page  6
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall take the actions set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement in order to ensure the proper implementation 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project, 
which plan shall consolidate the plans furnished to the Borrower by the 
Project Provinces pursuant to Section 2.03(b) of the Project Agreement; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by each Project Province 
in respect of its Respective Part of the Project pursuant to Section 
2.03(a) of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, 
including those for the 
Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as 
Page  7
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any Project Province shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that a Project Province will be able to perform 
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that any 
event specified in Section 5.01(a) of this Agreement shall occur and 
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by each 
Project Province, and is legally binding upon said Project Province in 
accordance with its terms.
Page  8
Section 6.02. The date 90 days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
8610-6855-1125
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the 
day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Page  9
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
  (Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Hubei's Respective
Part of the Project
(a) Works for Dike
   140,600,000
65%
Rehabilitation under
Parts B and C of the
Project
(b) Works for Slope
    18,200,000
65%
Protection and dike
roads under Parts
B(1)(f) and B(1)(g) of
the Project
(c) Goods
    6,000,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures;
100% of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost); 
and 75% of
local expenditures 
for other
items procured 
locally
(d) Consultants'
   1,600,000
100%
Services
(e) Training and
     600,000
100%
Study Tours
(2)
Hunan's Respective
Part of the Project
(a) Works for Dike
  24,600,000
65%
Rehabilitation
under Parts B and
C of the Project
(b) Works for Slope
   3,000,000
65%
Protection and 
dike roads under
Parts B(1)(f) and
B(1)(g) of the
Project
(c) Goods
     400,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures;
100% of local 
Page  10
expenditures
(ex-factory cost); 
and 75% of
local expenditures 
for other
items procured 
locally
(d) Consultants'
     800,000
100%
Services
(e) Training and
     200,000
100%
Study Tours
(3)
Borrower's
Respective Part of
the Project
(a) Modeling works
   6,660,000
65%
under Part D(2) of
the Project
(b) Goods
   2,300,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures;
100% of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost); 
and 75% of
local expenditures 
for other
items procured 
locally
(c) Consultants'
   2,700,000
100%
Services
(d) Training and
     300,000
100%
Study Tours
(4)
Fee
   2,100,000
Amount due under 
Section
2.04 of this 
Agreement
TOTAL
 210,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; provided, however, that expenditures in the currency of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region and expenditures in the currency of 
the Macau Special Administrative Region for goods or services supplied 
from said region shall be deemed “foreign expenditures”; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that 
are not foreign expenditures.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding $4,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for 
Page  11
expenditures before that date but after December 1, 1999.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for:  (a) expenditures for 
works under contracts costing less than $5,000,000 equivalent each; (b) 
expenditures for goods under contracts costing less than $250,000 
equivalent each; (c) expenditures for consultants’ services under 
contracts awarded to firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; 
(d) expenditures for consultants’ services under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (e) 
expenditures for training and study tours, regardless of the cost 
thereof; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to protect property and life along 
the middle reaches of the Borrower’s Yangtze River against floods by 
strengthening its dikes and associated structures and protecting its 
riverbanks against erosion, and by improving the operation and 
maintenance of such dikes.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Riverbank Protection
Development and carrying out of a program of riverbank protection 
along approximately 133 kilometers of the Yangtze River in the Project 
Provinces, consisting of:  (1) placement of rockfill, precast concrete 
blocks, dumped riprap and filter material along the underwater part and 
toe of the riverbank; and (2) placement of precast concrete slabs and 
riprap along the above-water part of the riverbank.
Part B:
Dike Strengthening and Maintenance
(1)
Development and carrying out of a program to rehabilitate about 559 
kilometers of Class I and II dikes along the Yangtze River in the Project 
Provinces, consisting of: (a) raising of the height of the dikes; (b) 
placement of stone and concrete blocks and planting of trees on the river 
berms to protect the face of the dikes; (c) treatment of the main body of 
the dikes by injection of concrete grout or placement of geo-synthetic 
materials; (d) treatment of dike foundations by placement of impermeable 
blanket or injection of concrete grout; (e) repair and upgrading of 
culverts and gates through the dikes; (f) stabilize dike outer 
(land-side) slopes by planting of grass cover; and (g) paving and 
upgrading dike road and installation of lighting.
(2)
Provision of equipment required for proper maintenance of dikes 
along the Yangtze River in the Project Provinces, including wheel 
loaders, bulldozers, excavators, dump trucks, boats, and related 
equipment.
Part C:
Cross-dike Structures
(1)
Development and carrying out of a program of works to rehabilitate 
and protect the foundations of cross-dike structures along the Yangtze 
River in the Project Provinces such as culverts, sluices, pumping 
Page  12
stations and traffic passes with flood control gates, against seepage, 
consisting of construction of concrete cutoff walls, jet grouting and 
placement of cement mixed piles.
(2)
Development and carrying out of a program of works to lengthen the 
cross-dike structures of dikes rehabilitated under Part B of this 
Schedule.
(3)
Installation of snail traps, nets and isolation ponds at cross-dike 
structures.
Part D:
Dike Monitoring System and River Modelling
(1)
Establishing in Hubei a computerized data acquisition system of 
piezometers for monitoring the seepage through the dike and foundations, 
and monument gauges for deformation and settlement for critical sections 
of the dike body or foundation. 
(2)
Carrying out of a program to construct in Hubei’s Municipality of 
Wuhan a physical movable bed-type model of the middle and lower reaches 
of the Yangtze River so as to enable the Borrower to predict changes in 
morphology of the river, and water and sediment flows through rivers and 
various lakes along the river.
Part E:
Resettlement; Environmental Management
(1)
Carrying out of a resettlement program designed to improve the 
living standards and production levels of all Affected Persons.
(2)
Carrying out of an environmental management plan for the Project 
designed to ensure that the Project is implemented in an environmentally 
sound manner.
Part F:
Institutional Strengthening
(1)
Design and carrying out of a program to strengthen the capabilities 
of the institutions responsible in the Project Provinces for flood 
control along the Yangtze River in respect of dike maintenance, design 
and construction of flood control facilities, and operational and 
financial management of such facilities.
(2)
Design and carrying out of a program to establish a flood 
prevention center within MWR’s Technical Research Center in order to: (a) 
review flood control standards, regulations, policies and emergency 
responses systems; (b) research and develop technology and methodology 
for riverbank protection, foundation seepage control and flood risk 
analysis; (c) provide training in the design and technical investigation 
of dikes for provincial design institutes; and (d) institute a technical 
help desk for solving specific flood control problems in the Project 
Provinces and river basins.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Page  13
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in 
Dollars)*
March 15, 2006
 4,185,000
September 15, 2006
 4,320,000
March 15, 2007
 4,465,000
September 15, 2007
 4,615,000
March 15, 2008
 4,770,000
September 15, 2008
 4,930,000
March 15, 2009
 5,090,000
September 15, 2009
 5,260,000
March 15, 2010
 5,435,000
September 15, 2010
 5,615,000
March 15, 2011
 5,805,000
September 15, 2011
 6,000,000
March 15, 2012
 6,195,000
September 15, 2012
 6,405,000
March 15, 2013
 6,615,000
September 15, 2013
 6,835,000
March 15, 2014
 7,065,000
September 15, 2014
 7,300,000
March 15, 2015
 7,545,000
September 15, 2015
 7.795,000
March 15, 2016
 8,055,000
September 15, 2016
 8,320,000
March 15, 2017
 8,600,000
September 15, 2017
 8,320,000
March 15, 2018
 8,600,000
September 15, 2018
 8,885,000
March 15, 2019
 9,180,000
September 15, 2019
 9,490,000
March 15, 2020
 9,805,000
September 15, 2020
10,130,000
March 15, 2021
10,465,000
September 15, 2021
10,825,000
__________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be 
repaid, except as provided 
in Sections  4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
Page  14
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic 
Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors (other 
than goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or 
the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower and works carried 
out by contractors from either of said regions).
(b)
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or 
more shall include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in 
the standard bidding documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of 
the Guidelines.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to 
cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance 
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of 
the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Works
(a)
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $253,900,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $19,700,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from 3 qualified domestic contractors in response to 
a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
2.
Goods
(a)
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,300,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  15
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to the following contracts, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply:
(a)
the first three contracts for works to be procured by the 
Borrower under national competitive bidding procedures under Part C.1(a) 
of this Section I and the first three contracts for works to be procured 
by each Project Province under national competitive bidding procedures 
under Part C.1(a) of this Section I;
(b)
each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more; and
(c)
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
Page  16
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for specialized planning under Part B of the Project, 
river modeling under Part D(2) of the Project and establishment of the 
flood prevention center under Part F(2) of the Project may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,800,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for hydraulic modeling under Part D(2) of the Project 
which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may, with the 
Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
Page  17
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
A.
Project Management
1.
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project and the 
continued achievement of its objectives, the Borrower shall at all times 
during Project implementation maintain:
(a)
a central Project steering committee, with representatives 
of the MWR, SDPC, MOF and the Project Provinces, to be responsible for 
the oversight of Project implementation; and
(b)
a central Project coordination office, with terms of 
reference and resources acceptable to the Bank, headed by an official of 
MWR, and assisted by qualified staff in adequate numbers assigned from 
the MWR, CWRC and each of the Project Provinces, to be responsible for: 
(i) development and implementation of national standards for design and 
construction of river dikes and embankments; and (ii) adherence to 
appropriate quality control assurance measures.
2.
The Borrower shall, through MWR, employ not later than October 15, 
2000 and thereafter at all times maintain a panel of engineering experts 
with terms of reference, qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Bank, to assist in the review of design and construction programs under 
the Project, provide technical guidance to the Borrower and Project 
Provinces on such programs and to monitor, evaluate and report to the 
Bank on the implementation of such programs.
B.
Environment; Resettlement
1.
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the 
Environmental Management Plan is carried out in a manner designed to 
ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with sound 
environmental practices and standards in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank.
2.
The Borrower shall:  (a) maintain policies and procedures adequate 
to enable it to monitor and evaluate, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, the implementation of the Environmental 
Management Plan and Resettlement Action Plans and the achievement of 
their respective objectives; (b) include the results of such monitoring 
and evaluation activities in each report to be prepared by it pursuant to 
Part F(2) of this Schedule, together with any revisions proposed to be 
introduced into such plans in order to achieve their respective 
objectives; and (c) take all measures necessary to ensure that such 
revisions are introduced into such plans as shall have been agreed with 
the Bank.
Page  18
C.
Annual Implementation Plans
1.
The Borrower shall: (a) through CWRC, prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, not later than December 1, 2000 and, 
thereafter, not later than October 1 in each subsequent year, a proposed 
plan for the implementation of the Borrower’s Respective Part of the 
Project during the following year, said plan to:  (i) describe the 
activities proposed to be carried out under the Project during such 
period; and (ii) be accompanied by a financing plan therefor, and 
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that funds in adequate amounts are 
available for the payment of expenditures to be incurred in the carrying 
out of the Project during such period; and (b) consolidate said 
implementation plan together with the annual implementation plans 
furnished to it by each Project Province pursuant to Part C.1 of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement, and furnish to the Bank not later than 
December 15, 2000 and, thereafter, not later than October 15 in each 
subsequent year, commencing October 15, 2001.
2.
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with the Borrower and the Project Provinces on each such 
plan, and thereafter, shall promptly take all measures necessary to 
ensure the proper implementation of such implementation plans, taking 
into account the views of the Bank on the matter.
D.
Operations and Maintenance Plan
1.
The Borrower shall consolidate the plans designed to ensure the 
proper operation and maintenance of all flood protection facilities 
included under the Project furnished to it by the Project Provinces 
pursuant to Part D.1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and 
furnish the same to the Bank not later than December 1, 2002, accompanied 
by an adequate financing plan therefor.
2.
The Borrower shall:  (a) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity 
to review with the Borrower such operation and maintenance plan, and 
thereafter; and (b) take all measures necessary to ensure the proper 
implementation of such plan, taking into account the views of the Bank in 
the matter.
E.
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank the following reports:
(a)
semi-annual progress reports, not later than April 15 and 
October 15 in each calendar year, said reports to: (i) summarize the 
results of such monitoring and evaluation activities on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the preceding calendar 
semester; (ii) consolidate the semi-annual reports furnished to it by the 
Project Provinces pursuant to Part E.2(a) of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement and the reports furnished to it by the panel of engineering 
experts referred to in Part A.2(a) of this Schedule; (iii) set forth 
physical and financial progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively, and in respect of such preceding calendar semester; and 
(iv) set out any additional measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of its objectives during 
Page  19
such following calendar year; and
(b)
a mid-term report, not later than July 15, 2002, said report 
to:  (i) summarize the results of such monitoring and evaluation 
activities on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project to 
date; (ii) consolidate the mid-term reports furnished to it by the 
Project Provinces pursuant to Part E.2(b) of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement; and (iii) set out any additional measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date.
3.
After furnishing each such report, the Borrower shall review the 
same with Bank, and, thereafter, promptly take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and 
(3)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent 
to $18,000,000
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$9,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $85,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits 
Page  20
into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount 
as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out 
of the Special 
Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said 
documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
Page  21
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
