Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4570 CHA
Project Agreement
(Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
HUBEI PROVINCE
HUNAN PROVINCE
Dated August 10, 2000 
LOAN NUMBER 4570 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 10, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and Hubei Province and Hunan 
Province (collectively, the Project Provinces, and individually, a 
Project Province).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between 
People’s Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to two hundred 
ten million dollars ($210,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Project Provinces 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in 
this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Project Provinces, in consideration of the Bank’s 
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to 
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and 
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings 
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each Project Province declares its commitment to 
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Bank and the Project Province concerned 
shall otherwise agree, each Project Province shall carry out its 
Respective Part of the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Each Project Province shall carry out the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of its Respective Part of the 
Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, each Project Province shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the 
Borrower not later than 4 months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Bank and said Project Province, for 
forwarding by the Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 
3.03(a) of the Loan 
Agreement, a plan for the future 
operation of its Respective Part of the 
Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower 
and said Project Province on said 
plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Each Project Province shall, at the request of 
the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of its 
Respective Part of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Each Project Province shall promptly inform the Bank of any 
Page  3
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of 
its Respective Part of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of 
Loan, or the performance by said Project Province of its obligations 
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each Project Province shall maintain or cause to 
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of its Respective Part of the Project.
(b) 
Each Project Province shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for 
each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as 
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of 
each Project Province thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the 
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank 
shall promptly notify said Project Province thereof.
Section 4.03. All this provisions of this Agreement shall continue 
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension 
under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be 
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
Page  4
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall 
also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Hubei:
Finance Bureau, Hubei Province
No. 8 Zhongbei Road
Wuchang, Wuhan City 430071
People’s Republic of China
Telex:
Facsimile:
5815
8627-87849682
For Hunan:
Finance Bureau, Hunan Province
No. 1 West Cheng’nan Road
Changsha City 410015
People’s Republic of China
Facsimile:
86731-5165184
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on 
behalf of each Project Province, may be taken or executed by the Governor 
or any Vice Governor of said Project Province or such other person or 
persons as said Governor or Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and 
said Project Province shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively 
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the 
day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  5
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
HUBEI PROVINCE
HUNAN PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
A.
Project Management
1.
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project and the 
continued achievement of its objectives, each Project Province shall at 
all times during Project implementation maintain, with terms of reference 
and resources acceptable to the Bank:
(a)
a leading group with membership acceptable to the Bank, to 
be responsible for the oversight of said Project Province’s Respective 
Part of the Project and the provision of policy guidance to the Project 
management offices referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph 1; 
(b)
a Project management office at the provincial level headed 
by a competent manager and assisted by qualified staff in adequate 
numbers, to be responsible for the implementation within its 
jurisdiction, of said Project Province’s Respective Part of the Project, 
including the procurement of goods and services and monitoring and 
evaluation of the implementation of its Respective Part of the Project; 
(c)
an environmental management division within the Project 
management office at each of the provincial and prefecture or municipal 
levels, headed by a competent manager and assisted by qualified staff in 
adequate numbers, to be responsible for the coordination and supervision 
of said Project Province’s Respective Environmental Management Plan;
(d)
a resettlement management division within the Project 
management office at each of the provincial, prefecture or municipal, and 
county levels, headed by a competent manager and assisted by qualified 
staff in adequate numbers, to be responsible for the coordination and 
supervision of said Project Province’s Respective Resettlement Action 
Plan; and
(e)
a Project management office at the level of each prefecture 
or municipality and county in which said Project Province’s Respective 
Part of the Project will be carried out, each such office to be headed by 
a competent manager and assisted by qualified staff in adequate numbers, 
and to be responsible for the implementation within its jurisdiction, of 
said Project Province’s Respective Part of the Project.
2.
Each Project Province shall employ, not later than September 15, 
2000 and thereafter at all times maintain:
(a)
a monitoring institution with terms of reference, 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, to monitor, 
Page  6
evaluate and report on the socio-economic progress of all persons covered 
by its Respective Resettlement Action Plan; and 
(b)
a panel of environmental and resettlement experts with terms 
of reference, qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, to 
assist in overseeing the implementation of the Environmental Management 
Plan and Resettlement Action Plan and monitoring the impact of the 
implementation of the Project on the environment.
B.
Environment; Resettlement
1.
Each Project Province shall carry out its Respective Environmental 
Management Plan in a manner designed to ensure that its Respective Part 
of the Project is implemented in accordance with sound environmental 
practices and standards.
2.
Each Project Province shall carry out its Respective Resettlement 
Action Plan in a manner designed to:  (a) minimize to the extent possible 
any change in land or water use that would result in the involuntary loss 
by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to productive assets, 
or of income or means of livelihood; and (b) improve the living standards 
and production levels of all Affected Persons under its Respective Part 
of the Project.
3.
Each Project Province shall:  (a) maintain policies and procedures 
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the implementation of its respective 
Environmental Management Plan and Resettlement Action Plan and the 
achievement of their respective objectives; (b) include the results of 
such monitoring and evaluation activities (including those of the 
monitoring institution referred to in Part A.2(a) of this Schedule) in 
each report to be prepared by it and furnished to the Borrower pursuant 
to Part E(2) of this Schedule, together with any revisions proposed to be 
introduced into such plans in order to achieve their respective 
objectives; and (c) introduce such revisions into such plans as shall 
have been agreed with the Bank.
C.
Annual Implementation Plans
1.
Each Project Province shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Borrower not later than 
December 1, 2000 and, thereafter, not later than October 1 in each 
subsequent year, for forwarding to the Bank, a proposed plan for the 
implementation of its Respective Part of the Project during the following 
calendar year, said plan to:  (a) describe the activities which it 
proposes to carry out under its Respective Part of the Project during 
such period, including the proposed training program and study tours to 
be carried out by it during such period; and (b) be accompanied by a 
financing plan therefor, and evidence satisfactory to the Bank that funds 
in adequate amounts are available for the payment of expenditures to be 
incurred in the carrying out of said Project Province’s Respective Part 
of the Project during such period.
2.
Each Project Province shall afford the Borrower and the Bank a 
reasonable opportunity to exchange views with said Project Province on 
each such plan furnished by said Project Province, and thereafter, shall 
carry out its Respective Part of the Project during the period covered by 
such plan in accordance with such plan, taking into account the views of 
the Bank on the matter.
Page  7
D.
Operations and Maintenance of Dikes
1.
In order to ensure the financial and physical sustainability of the 
flood protection facilities included under its Respective Part of the 
Project, each Project Province shall take the following measures:
(a)
The Project Province shall prepare, in accordance with terms 
of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Borrower not 
later than November 15, 2002, for forwarding to the Bank, a plan designed 
to ensure the proper operation and maintenance of all such facilities, 
said operation and maintenance plan to be accompanied by an adequate 
financing plan therefor.
(b)
The Project Province shall: (i) afford the Borrower and the 
Bank a reasonable opportunity to review with said Project Province such 
operation and maintenance plan as shall have been furnished by it; and 
(ii) thereafter carry out such plan, taking into account the views of the 
Bank in the matter.
(c)
In order to assist the Project Province in the preparation 
of the operation and maintenance plan referred to in this paragraph 1, 
the Project Province shall employ consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
In order to recover the recurrent costs of operation and 
maintenance of the flood protection facilities upgraded or constructed 
under the Project from the beneficiaries of such facilities, each Project 
Province shall take the following measures:
(a)
The Project Province shall: (i) promptly upon completion of 
the facilities which are constructed or upgraded under the Project, 
establish and collect flood protection charges from the beneficiaries 
thereof, to recover a substantial portion of the operation and 
maintenance costs of said facilities as they are incurred; and (ii) 
finance the operation and maintenance costs of said facilities not 
covered by said flood protection charges in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank.
(b)
To that end, the Project Province shall: (i) prepare, on the 
basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Borrower 
and the Bank not later than March 31, 2002, the proposed schedule of such 
charges and timetable for its establishment and proposal for financing 
the operation and maintenance costs not covered by such charges, together 
with any information pertaining thereto that the Bank may reasonably 
request; (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower and the Project Provinces on such schedule and 
timetable; and (iii) thereafter promptly take all measures required on 
its part to introduce such schedule according to said timetable, taking 
into account the views of the Bank on the matter.
(c)
The Project Province shall: (i) review (A) the progress in 
collecting such charges and (B) the structure and levels of such charges, 
not later than January 1 in each calendar year; (ii) prepare in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to the 
Borrower and the Bank not later than March 1 in each year for forwarding 
to the Bank, a report on the results of such review; (iii) afford the 
Borrower and the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Project Province on each such report; and (iv) thereafter adjust such 
charges as necessary so as to continue to give effect to the provisions 
of this paragraph 2, and take all appropriate measures to ensure the 
continued collection of such charges, taking into account the views of 
the Bank on the matter.
Page  8
(d)
The Project Province shall maintain a separate accounting 
for funds collected within its jurisdiction pursuant to the provisions of 
this paragraph 2 and cause all said funds to be used exclusively for the 
purposes specified in such paragraph 2.
E.
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
Each Project Province shall maintain policies and procedures 
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in 
accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of 
its Respective Part of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof.
2.
Each Project Province shall prepare, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish the following reports to the 
Borrower, for forwarding to the Bank:
(a)
semi-annual progress reports, not later than April 1 and 
October 1 in each calendar year, said reports to: (i) summarize the 
results of such monitoring and evaluation activities on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of said Project Province’s Respective Part 
of the Project during the preceding calendar semester; (ii) set forth 
physical and financial progress in the implementation of its Respective 
Part of the Project, both cumulatively, and in respect of such preceding 
calendar semester; and (iii) set out any additional measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of its Respective Part of the 
Project and the achievement of its objectives during such following 
calendar year; and
(b)
a mid-term report, not later than July 15, 2002, said report 
to:  (i) summarize the results of such monitoring and evaluation 
activities on the progress achieved in the carrying out of its Respective 
Part of the Project to date; and (ii) set out any additional measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of its Respective Part 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date.
3.
After furnishing each such report, said Project Province shall 
review the same with the Borrower and the Bank, and, thereafter, promptly 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of its 
Respective Part of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Bank’s views on the matter.
