                              Document of
                             The World Bank

                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                     Report No: ICR00001068




      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IBRD-45700)

                                  ON A

                       LOAN OF US$210 MILLION


                                 TO THE

                    PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA


                                FOR THE


              YANGTZE DIKE STRENGTHENING PROJECT




                               June 26, 2009




Rural Development, Natural Resources & Environment Sector Unit
China and Mongolia Sustainable Development
East Asia and Pacific Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                  ( Exchange Rate Effective May 18, 2009 )
                       Currency Unit = RMB Yuan
                     RMB Yuan 1.00 = US$ 0.146
                            US$ 1.00 = RMB Yuan 6.83
                               Fiscal Year
                         January 1 ­ December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
CPCO      Central Project Coordination Office
CPSC     Central Project Steering Committee
CWRC     Changjiang (Yangtze River) Water Resources Committee
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DMO      Dike Management Office
DOF      Department of Finance
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
EPP      Emergency Preparedness Plan
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FDPC     Flood Disaster Prevention Center
KPI      Key Performance Indicators
MWR      Ministry of Water Resources
NDRC     National Development and Restructuring Commission
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
O&M      Operation and Maintenance
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PLG      Project Leading Group
PPMO     Provincial Project Management Office
RAP      Settlement Action Plan
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
TGP      Three Gorges Project
YBFCMP   Yangtze Basin Flood Control Master Plan
   Vice President: James W. Adams, EAPVP
 Country Director: David R. Dollar, EACCF
                    Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez, EASCS
 Sector Managers:
                    Rahul Raturi, EASRE
Task Team Leader: Ximing Zhang, EASCS
A. Basic Information
                                                                          CN-Yangtze Dike
Country:                China                   Project Name:
                                                                          Strengthening
Project ID:             P064730                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-45700
ICR Date:               06/26/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 PRC
Original Total
                        USD 210.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 202.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Changjiang Water Resources Commission (CWRC), Central Project Coordination Office
(CPCO)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/15/1999     Effectiveness:                               11/03/2000
                                                                                  06/12/2006
Appraisal:            12/09/1999     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                  02/22/2008
Approval:             06/27/2000     Mid-term Review:                             11/18/2002
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2004        12/31/2008

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             Highly Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      2                     2
Flood protection                                                      97                  97
Sub-national government administration                                1                      1


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                                      20                  15
Land administration and management                                    40                  20
Water resource management                                             40                  65

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                       Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:          David R. Dollar                      Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:            Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez             Geoffrey B. Fox
Project Team Leader:       Ximing Zhang                         Daniel J. Gunaratnam
ICR Team Leader:           Ximing Zhang
ICR Primary Author:        Xueming Liu
                           Ximing Zhang


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
 Protect property and life along the middle reaches of the Borrower's Yangtze River
against floods by strengthening its dikes and associated structures and protecting its
riverbanks against erosion, and by improving the operation and maintenance of such
dikes.



                                               ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target       Completion or
                                               documents)          Values       Target Years
                Increased flood protection level and reduction in flood damage in the project
Indicator 1 : areas of Hubei and Hunan provinces; enhanced dike O&M practices and
                procedures
                                           Strengthened dikes
                                           eliminate flood
                                                                             Achieved as per the
                                           damage for less
                                                                             evaluation by the
                                           than 1: 20 year
Value           Existing dikes could only                                    expert panel
                                           damage floods;
quantitative or stand 1:10 year return                                       commissioned by
                                           with completion of
Qualitative)    period flood                                                 the Ministry of
                                           TGP in 2009, that
                                                                             Water
                                           protection will
                                                                             Resources(MWR).
                                           improve to 1: 100
                                           year return period
Date achieved 05/31/2000                   12/31/2004                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        See ICR Section 3.2.2 for details.
achievement)
                Improved organizational and funding arrangements for dike inspection and
Indicator 2 :
                maintenance works
                                           Organizational and
                                           funding                           Achieved with
                Inadequate organizational arrangements for                   institutional
Value
                and funding arrangements dike inspection                     capacity
quantitative or
                for dike inspection and and maintenance                      strengthened and
Qualitative)
                maintenance.               works improved                    funding sources for
                                           by completion of                  dike O&M secured.
                                           the project
Date achieved 05/31/2000                   12/31/2004                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Issuance of a MWR directive for flood protection fee collection or ear-marked
Indicator 3 :
                taxes
                                                                             Directives issued
                                                                             by respective
Value                                      Directive issued
                                                                             provincial
quantitative or No directive issued        by the completion
                                                                             government based
Qualitative)                               of the project
                                                                             on the Flood
                                                                             Control Law


                                               iii
Date achieved     05/31/2000                 12/31/2004                       12/31/2008
Comments          Indicators used here are from PAD Annex 1. At the project appraisal the PAD
(incl. %          used a logical framework and the indicators developed may be different in
achievement)      hierarchy from those of the Results Framework.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                               Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                 approval                       Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                documents)                       Target Years
                  Setting up dike inspection programs and processing and evaluation of inspection
Indicator 1 :
                  results
Value
                                                                              Satisfactorily
(quantitative
                                                                              achieved
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                 12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Formulation of annual maintenance programs and the funding and the projected
Indicator 2 :
                  and actual cost of annual maintenance programs
Value
                                                                              Satisfactorily
(quantitative
                                                                              achieved
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                12/31/2005
                  The PAD Annex 1 log-frame has no intermediate outcome indicators. Those
Comments
                  given here are drawn from the KPI as defined in the PAD main text and are the
(incl. %
                  close proxies considered by the ICR mission. See ICR Section 3.2.4 on
achievement)
                  Achievement of secondary PDO.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                        IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     12/21/2000             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   11.10
  2     12/29/2000             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   11.10
  3     06/19/2001             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   11.10
  4     12/10/2001             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   11.10
  5     06/28/2002             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   17.56
  6     06/28/2002             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   17.56
  7     11/27/2002             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   52.53
  8     05/28/2003             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   75.54
  9     06/12/2003             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   77.84
 10     11/11/2003             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   90.12
 11     06/21/2004             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  102.16



                                                iv
 12    12/06/2004         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 110.58
 13    05/06/2005         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 116.39
 14    06/09/2005         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 116.70
 15    10/05/2005         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 118.37
 16    02/08/2006         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 122.31
 17    06/27/2006         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 133.33
 18    08/16/2006         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 133.33
 19    07/27/2007         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 138.90
 20    06/24/2009         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 202.94


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     To utilize the savings of loan
                                                     proceeds to include the
                                                     strengthening to key tributary
                                                     dikes on two tributary rivers,
                                                     the Jushui and Fuhuan to the
                                                     mid-Yangtze River in Wuhan
                                                     Municipality. These tributaries
 06/12/2006       N       S       S         133.33   are an integral part of the
                                                     Yangtze basin flood protection
                                                     system and are located in Hubei
                                                     province (see ICR main text
                                                     Section 1.6). The restructuring
                                                     was approved by the RVP on
                                                     the basis of delegated authority
                                                     from the Bank's Board.
                                                     To utilize the savings of loan
                                                     proceeds to include the
                                                     strengthening to key tributary
                                                     dikes on XiShui, Bahe and
                                                     Jushui Rivers in the vicinity of
                                                     Huanggang City. These
                                                     tributaries are an integral part of
 02/22/2008       N       S       S         145.88
                                                     the Yangtze basin flood
                                                     protection system and are
                                                     located in Hubei province (see
                                                     ICR main text Section 1.6). This
                                                     was approved by the RVP on
                                                     the basis of delegated authority
                                                     from the Bank's Board.




                                          v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
                    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

      1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design1

      1.1 Context at Appraisal

      1.1.1       China's rivers and floodplains h ave b een t he focus of h uman settlement s ince t he
      dawn of civilization. The rivers were the natural transport routes and the floodplains offered
      vast t racts of fertile land. Today, the floodplains p rovide a h ome t o t he bulk o f t he China's
      population, m ost o f its i ndustry, a nd a n expanse of f armland t hat f eeds a pop ulation of 1. 3
      billion pe ople. U nfortunately, t his v astly p roductive area i s vulnerable t o f looding. In 1 998
      floods along t he Yangtze damaged t he provinces of H ubei, Hunan and J iangxi. Some 21
      million people in the three provinces were affected and 4.0 million people were permanently
      displaced. T he d amage w as e stimated a t Y uan 1 58 b illion (close t o U S$20 billion). T hese
      floods s howed up many weaknesses i n the e xisting i nfrastructure, i ncluding piping a nd
      leakage through the dikes and foundations, bank erosion, and the risk of overtopping.

      1.1.2       Government's strategy for f lood c ontrol i ncludes: ( i) Construction of dikes and
      protection of riverbanks against erosion. Over 200,000 km o f ne w and rehabilitated d ikes
      have been completed in China, protecting some 32 million ha of cultivated land (33 percent of
      the t otal), and a bout 316 million pe ople or about a qu arter of t he n ational p opulation. Of
      these, 56,000 km are along major rivers protecting some 21 million ha of cultivated land and
      about 216 million people in agricultural areas, cities, small towns, and industrial centers. (ii)
      Urban flood protection. 16,000 km of dikes protect cities. About 530 out of 660 cities in the
      country need additional flood defenses for key urban and industrial areas. It is internationally
      recognized that, as a minimum, k ey cities n eed safety f rom f loods o f a 100-year r ecurrence
      period, whereas 8 0 percent of the cities i n China are o nly secure f rom a 50-year r ecurrence
      period f lood. (iii) Creation of flood detention areas for temporary storage of flood waters.
      The Do ngting Lake on t he Y angtze s erves as a n atural detention a rea but i ts c apacity h as
      declined ov er the years be cause of siltation a nd l and r eclamation. M ost artificial detention
      areas contain high-value farmland and other valuable assets and are therefore used only as a
      last r esort; and ( iv) Construction of dams on the rivers to regulate downstream flows. Over
      84,000 reservoirs, w ith a t otal storage capacity of 450 bcm, ha ve b een built. M ost have
      multipurpose functions i ncluding f lood p rotection. S ome 3 74 large reservoirs with a total
      capacity of 325 bcm, and 2,562 medium-size reservoirs with a capacity of 70 bcm have been
      built in the seven major river basins to regulate and mitigate flood flows. Dams on the main
      rivers and tributaries intercept and thereby reduce peak flows.

      1.1.3      Yangtze Basin Flood Control Master Plan (YBFCMP). After the 1954 flood, a
      serious a ttempt w as made to prepare a ba sin master-plan f or flood c ontrol, including
      establishment of 16 de tention ba sins. F ollowing upda ting i n the 1970s a nd 19 80s, t he
      complete basin master plan was approved only in 1990 after the Three Gorges Project (TGP)
      was sanctioned. This " new" 1990 ma ster pl an c alls f or t he r ehabilitation of t he dikes to
      provide protection against floods with a 20-year recurrence period. The dikes would also give
      protection for a 10 0-year recurrence flood, assuming a t least 15 bc m of storage i n the


1
    This section i s b ased on t he PAD ( pages 2 -7) which contains a s olid and thorough a nalysis of t he water sector
      development issues a nd Yangtze R iver f lood management strategies, a nd provides a complete and informative
      context for the project.




                                                               3
detention basins. After TGP is constructed this facility together with the improved dikes will
be able t o pr otect a gainst 100-year r ecurrence p eriod flood, without using t he detention
basins.

1.1.4      Rationale for Bank's involvement.          Past e xperience in C hina is t hat B ank
financing o f large civil works l eads t o a mor e structured a pproach t o pl anning, design,
procurement of g oods a nd w orks a nd construction, t han is c ustomary i n l ocally financed
projects. B ank involvement and procurement procedures and documents have often resulted
in cost s avings of a s much as 20 t o 25 pe rcent. The quality of w orks is normally of higher
standard, because of better construction supervision. Counterpart funds are generally provided
by t he various l evels of g overnment a s s tipulated i n t he a greed P roject Financing P lan.
Organization a rrangements for project implementation a re mo re transparent and driven b y
technical and economic rather than political judgments. Bank involvement helps development
of autonomous institutions at provincial and local government levels as well as promotes self-
financing of annual operation and maintenance programs. Bank involvement in preparation of
this project has convinced central and provincial agencies to pay closer attention to achieve
financial s ustainability of dike maintenance organizations and t o the r esettlement a nd
environmental aspects under the Project.

1.1.5      The project supports Government's strategies endorsed in the CAS to: (i) pr omote
agricultural development a nd the rural e conomy b y incorporating major water s torage,
transfer, irrigation drainage and f lood c ontrol programs i nto f uture p rojects, that i nclude
institutional reform and user participation as integral components; (ii) improve cost recovery;
(iii) f ocus on t he r econstruction of essential i nfrastructure a nd r educe infrastructure
bottlenecks; (iv) improve rural employment and incomes; and (v) alleviate poverty.

1.2        Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators2

1.2.1     The main p roject de velopment objective i s to enhance the protection of the r iver
bank against erosion and to improve critical sections of existing main dikes along the banks of
the mid-Yangtze River in Hunan and Hubei Provinces, thus protecting the properties and lives
behind the dikes a gainst f loods. T he pr oject also s upports i nstitutional r eforms a imed a t
enhancing t he existing di ke o peration a nd m aintenance o rganizations, b oth or ganizationally
and technically.

1.2.2     Key p erformance indicators i n t he P AD m ain t ext i nclude: ( i) setting up d ike
inspection programs; (ii) processing and evaluation of inspection results; (iii) formulation of
annual m aintenance programs and t he funding thereof; (iv) the projected a nd actual c ost o f
annual maintenance programs; and (v) damage occurring from floods.

1.2.3      Outcome/impact indicators: (from Annex 1) include (i) Eliminate flood damage for
floods o f less than 1: 20 y ear return period unt il the c ompletion of T GP. A fter w hich
protection will improve to 1: 100 year return period; (ii) Improved organizational and funding
arrangements for dike inspection and m aintenance w orks; and ( iii) I ssuance of a M WR
directive for flood protection fee collection or ear-marked taxes

1.3          Revised PDO and Key Indicators

1.3.1        The PDO and key indicators remained unchanged during the implementation.


1.4          Main Beneficiaries

2
      As shown below and di scussed in Data Sheet (Section F), there are some inconsistencies be tween
      Key Indicators given in the PAD main text and those in PAD Annex 1


                                                   4
1.4.1     The p roject h as be nefited s ome 75 million people a nd pr otected 1 .63 million
          hectares o f f arm land in H unan an d Hubei Provinces. The p roject areas are t he
          heartland of the China's economy (with annual GDP as high as US$28.6 billion in
          2007 for the two Provinces), and home to major railways, oil fields and industrial
          complexes and the urban centers such as the city of Wuhan. The primary category
          of benefits is the e xpected v alue of t he r eduction of flood losses. Other b enefits
          include the reduction of flood fighting costs and environmental improvement.

1.4.2     The infrastructure investments un der t he p roject have directly contributed t o the
          protection of life and property as identified above while institutional strengthening
          components have enhanced water sector management capacities at both central and
          provincial levels.

1.5       Original Components

1.5.1      Component 1: River Bank and Dike Foundation Seepage Protection (US$ 103.4
million). River bank protection works, over a length of 132.7 km (82.4 km in Hubei and 50.3
km in Hunan), were implemented by Changjiang Water Resources Commission (CWRC)
with full support from the Central Government.

1.5.2     Component 2: Dike Strengthening for Hubei and Hunan Provinces (US$ 264.5
million). Dike rehabilitation and seepage control of 558.8 km o f Class I and II dikes (442.8
km in Hubei and 116.0 km in Hunan); and cross-dike structures rehabilitation or replacement.
Typical c ross-dike s tructures include culverts, sluices, pu mping s tations and traffic passes
with flood control gates. On average, there are two cross-dike structures per kilometer length.

1.5.3      Component 3: Dike Monitoring and River modeling (US$22.1 million). Hubei
Province s et up a computerized s ystem to monitor the seepage t hrough the di ke a nd
settlement/deformation of t he dike. I n a ddition the project s upports C WRC i n t he
development of a physical model of the middle Yangtze River reach covering the middle part
of the l ower r each. T he model will pr edict the sediment a nd water flows f rom Y icheng t o
Hukou. I t will also predict the movement of t he r iver c hannel i n t ime a nd t herefore give
CWRC advance warning for river bank protection and provide information on Dongting Lake
sedimentation and its capacity to retain flood storage volume.

1.5.4     Component 4: Equipment for Dike Maintenances (US$6.1 million). This component
provides mod ern equipment for dike ma intenance, which w ill i ncrease the o rganizational
capacity to carry out regular maintenance. The equipment includes wheel loaders, bulldozers,
excavators, dump trucks, light vehicles and boats. Office equipment, such as computers, fax
machines and printers, to improve further the efficiency of the maintenance organizations will
also be provided.

1.5.5    Component 5: Resettlement (US$96.9 million). T his includes t he r esettlement o f
47,992 people or 10,958 families. T he pr oject will affect 33,750 m u or 2,250 ha o f land of
which 1,460 ha is cultivated, 1.52 million m2 of housing, and 0.24 million m2 of industrial and
commercial units. .

1.5.6     Component 6: Environmental Management (US$1.9 million). An E nvironment
Impact A ssessment of t he project ( EIA) p repared pr ior t o appraisal, i ncludes an
Environmental Management Plan ( EMP) that w as i mplemented b y t he project. The EMP
details environmental protection measures, including mitigation, offsetting and enhancement
measures.




                                               5
1.5.7      Component 7: Engineering and Project Management (US$19.2 million). The
engineering and project management component provides for the preparation of final designs
and b idding documentation of the p roject works a nd construction supervision t hereof. In
addition to the normal engineering and project management arrangements the component also
provides for a design and construction s tandards r eview pa nel a nd c onsultants to assist t he
provinces with supervising the construction of works, with particular focus on quality control.

1.5.8     Component 8: Institutional Development and Flood Prevention and Disaster
Mitigation (US$5.6 million) The p roject will provide for technical a ssistance, t raining
programs and study tours in China and other countries for MWR/CWRC, Hubei and Hunan
Provinces. Flood p revention and d isaster mi tigation t echnical a ssistance will be located in
MWR's Technical Research Center.

1.5.9      The a bove p roject c omponents w ere w ell d efined w ith bo th h ardware
(infrastructure and equipment) and software (institutional development and capacity building)
combined. This balance w as appropriate to achieve the PDO o f enhancing p rotection of the
river bank against erosion, improving critical sections of existing main dikes and supporting
institutional reforms a imed a t be tter dike op eration a nd ma intenance, both organizationally
and technically.

1.6       Revised Components

1.6.1     The project was restructured twice during implementation.

1.6.2      Hubei p rovince's s hare of p roject costs and B ank's l oan pr oceeds, accounting f or
over 80% of the total, was highest among project entities. By mid-2005 Hunan Province had
completed al l the project a ctivities with full Bank disbursement. By t hen Hu bei had
completed all the planned physical works, but significant funds under the loan, totaling about
US$51.3 million had either been saved or remained unallocated. This situation arose for two
reasons. F irst, at appraisal project co st e stimates w ere based on preliminary, n ot detailed
designs. Once d etailed de signs w ere completed, s avings of about US$34 m illion f rom the
Bank l oan w ere r ealized. Second, s avings of a bout U S$17.3m w as a chieved because
successful bids were approved for Civil Works through National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
and the contracts were below t he de tailed e stimates. T o ut ilize t hese s avings, pr oject
restructuring was initiated to strengthen more dikes on key tributary rivers.

1.6.3      The first restructuring was approved by the Bank Vice President in June 2006. The
restructuring aimed a t ensuring the f ull a chievement of t he PDO by strengthening a total
length of 1 23.5km di kes on t wo tributary r ivers, t he Jushui and Fuhuan t o t he mid-Yangtze
River, in Wuhan Municipality, Hubei Province. The dike systems of the Jushui and Fuhuan
Rivers are an integral part of the Yangtze basin flood protection system. The tributary rivers
provide f lood pr otection and p rotect t he s afety of a bout 1. 83 mi llion c itizens of Wuhan
Municipality f rom both main Y angtze R iver floods backing up the rivers and f rom l ocal
flooding from the tributaries themselves. The structural conditions of the existing dikes were
generally poor due to the lower design standard, inherent shortfall of construction materials,
construction methods employed at the time and lack of proper dike maintenance over many
years. The new strengthened dikes would increase the level of protection from flood events of
1:30 y ear return period. The dike strengthening w as s upported by a n Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) and a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP).

1.6.4      The second restructuring of a similar nature was approved by the Vice President in
February 2008 t o support s trengthening additional di kes (a total l ength of 57 .4km) on four
tributary rivers to the mid-Yangtze River, the Qishui, XiShui, Bahe and Jushui in vicinity of
Huanggang City in Hubei Province. The dike systems of the Qishui, Xishui, Bahe and Jushui



                                                6
Rivers are an integral part of t he mid-Yangtze b asin flood protection system. They pr ovide
flood protection f or about 1.34 mi llion citizens i n the 3 c ounties of Tuanfeng, X ishui a nd
Qichun and Huanggang City, from both main Yangtze River floods backing up these tributary
rivers and from l ocal flooding f rom t he c atchments of t he t ributaries t hemselves. T he
structural condition of t he e xisting d ikes suffered from t he s ame problem as the Wuhan
tributary dikes. T he ne wly strengthened dikes would increase t he l evel of protection from
flood events of 1 i n 20 year return period (Class 3) in accordance with national standard for
predominately rural a reas. I n a ddition, the 9.5 km downstream reach of t he J ushui River,
would have dikes constructed to Class 2 standard to provide the area with 1:30 year protection
to mor e ur banized areas. The i nvestment w as s upported by an E nvironmental M anagement
Plan (EMP) and a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). The costs associated with the EMP and
the RAP, as well as project management costs were fully funded from counterpart funds.

1.6.5       The strategic context of the project, as originally articulated, is still very relevant.
The newly added project interventions further supported government's strategies towards: (i)
promoting a gricultural de velopment a nd the r ural e conomy by incorporating major water
drainage and f lood c ontrol pr ograms, including i nstitutional r eforms a nd user pa rticipation;
(ii) f ocusing on the reconstruction and mod ernization of essential i nfrastructure; and ( iii)
higher rural e mployment and i ncomes. T his context i s ve ry mu ch a ligned with recent
government focus on rural development and the creation of a "New Socialistic Countryside"
which is a major thrust of the 11th Five Year Plan (2006-2010).

Other Significant Changes

1.6.6    In connection with the project restructuring, the project was extended four times to
accommodate t he i mplementation o f a dditional dike s trengthening w orks a s well a s
unforeseen events (SARS and winter storms).

2.        Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1       Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1      Background Analysis. Based on t he government's long t erm f lood management
strategies i n g eneral and t he Y angtze B asin Flood Control M aster Plan i n particular, the
background analysis of the pr oject was t horough and well presented and t he justification of
the pr oject w as compelling i n l ight of the heavy pr operty and hu man life l osses caused b y
severe floods in 1998. The lessons learnt as identified by the PAD, including the institutional
development and f unding f or O&M, were hi ghly r elevant, and incorporated i nto the pr oject
design. The Bank's involvement in this multi-billion government project was not only in line
with the priority areas in the water sector defined in the country assistance strategy (CAS) but
also a dded value to t he i nstitutional de velopment, O &M and s ustainability, for which t he
Bank clearly had more international experiences to share with the government.

2.1.2      Assessment of project design. The project PDO -- to enhance the protection of the
river b ank a gainst e rosion a nd to i mprove c ritical sections of e xisting main d ikes a nd to
support institutional reforms aimed at enhancing the existing dike operation and maintenance
organizations, both organizationally and technically - is clearly defined with both "hardware
and "software" components to support its achievement.

2.1.3     The technical designs were conducted by China's first class hydrological research
and design institutes, using their well established expertise and long term experiences with
similar w orks (embankments a nd c ross dr ainage structure) i n C hina. T he freeboard a nd
seepage control criteria for the embankment were of international state of the art.




                                                 7
2.1.4     Project de sign was e ffective i n ha ving environment and r esettlement defined as
individual, distinct components, which at the time had higher and more rigorous requirements
than those of t he on-going n ational program. T his h elped t o ensure adequate a ttention and
financing of these important aspects and compliance with Bank Safeguard policies.

2.1.5     The project de sign c learly de fined t he Dike M anagement O ffices ( DMOs) a t
various levels as the implementation agencies with their division of labor and responsibilities
(PAD Pages 11-12). Those agencies were also simultaneously the implementation institutions
of the much bigger on-going government dike strengthening program, and therefore they were
capable and well positioned t o carry out the assigned project activities. The D MOs are also
the main agencies responsible for the project O&M, which ensures a smooth transition from
implementation to regular O&M functions.

2.1.6      Government commitment to the project was high and exemplary. The Bank project
was actually a small p art o f t he t hen o n-going multi-billion g overnment d ike strengthening
program.3     The C entral G overnment had allocated a h uge bud get for f lood mitigation
programs to the upper and middle Yangtze reaches for the three years (1999 - 2001). Central
and pr ovincial governments gave very hi gh priority to the project, after t he occurrence of a
major f lood i n the Yangtze B asin in 199 8. T he National D evelopment a nd Reform
Commission (NDRC) formally approved the project in May 1999. The Central Government
had already invested, before the appraisal of the Bank project, Yuan 3-4 billion (US$ 361-482
million) in 1998/1999 on Yangtze dike repairs to ensure that they were safe for the 1999 flood
season (July-October). Adequate participation of affected people was ensured in the design of
RAP with surveys conducted on the vulnerable groups and inclusion of special subsidies for
them in the RAP.

2.1.7     However, as clearly identified in the rationale for the Bank involvement, the use of
Bank procurement procedures often resulted in cost savings of as much as 20 to 25 p ercent.
This c ould have been f ully taken i nto account i n pr oject de sign and a greement r eached at
appraisal on the use of "the savings" for the same government program.

2.1.8     Risks. The project design included excellent risk analysis and mitigation measures,
covering key aspects, such as counterpart funding, institutional capacity, technical soundness
for project implementation and sustainability (PAD Pages 29-30 detail all these aspects with
well designed ma trix). T he issues r aised under pr oject s ustainability w ere extremely
important to the mitigation of future risks of the strengthened dikes after project completion.

2.1.9      Based on the above a ssessment t he q uality o f t he project a t entry is r ated as
satisfactory. The QAG rating of quality at entry was highly satisfactory.

2.2         Implementation

2.2.1        Project Implementation

2.2.1      The project was e xtended f or four y ears f or s everal reasons. During s cheduled
implementation p eriod, the o utbreak of SARS i n 2003 s everely affected t he construction of
works due to nationwide restrictions imposed on the movement of people and traffic. Despite
this force majeure event, all major dike strengthening targets contained in the PAD were met
by the end of 2005 and could have closed with a loan saving of US$51 million. (See Section
1.6)




3
      See PAD page 12.


                                               8
2.2.2      With a pproval f rom t he Bank a nd N ational Development and R estructuring
Commission (NDRC), the loan balance in the civil works category was used to strengthen the
dike s ections of ke y t ributaries c lose t o t heir c onfluence w ith Y angtze i n W uhan a nd
Huanggang, as a n integral pa rt o f t he na tional u rban f lood p revention p rogram. The n ewly
added sub-projects i n H ubei P rovince, after B ank's i nternal appraisal and c learance from
NDRC, w ere i mplemented f rom 200 6 (one mor e e xtension was gr anted due to t he s evere
winter storm in the project areas in January 2008).

2.3          Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1      Design. F or the c onstruction period, the pr oject design s tressed adequate
supervision and quality control. The project specifically supported a design and construction
standards r eview p anel and c onsultants to a ssist t he provinces with supervising the
construction o f w orks, w ith a pa rticular f ocus on quality control. F or r egular op eration, a
long-term structural monitoring system was designed for the river dikes. A system has been
incorporated to monitor t he safety of t he di ke du ring hi gh w ater l evels dur ing f loods, in
particular t he ph ysical s ettlement m ovements i n the dikes a nd also the movement of
subsurface w ater t hrough t he dike a nd i ts foundation. For resettlement, t he M &E c overed
progress with: (i) construction of houses and infrastructure; (ii) payment of private and public
compensation; (iii) establishment of de velopment p rograms for r esettlement, which
incorporated the results of the independent monitoring program of the RAP and the findings
of the international/local panel of resettlement/environmental experts. M&E on environmental
management included the implementation of the environmental management plan, including
the periodic monitoring results of the construction inspectors and the international/local panel
of resettlement/environmental experts.

2.3.2     Although t he M &E d esign w as comprehensive the P DO indicators are not
consistent be tween t hose i n t he ma in text a nd t he on es i n P AD A nnex 1.4 PDO i ndicators
contained in PAD Annex 1 had been used during the project implementation and for ICR.

2.3.3     Implementation & Utilization. Infrastructure w orks wer e s upervised and
monitored b y i ndependent q ualified i nstitutions during project implementation.   T he
comprehensive project M&E was carried out as recorded in semi-annual reports providing: (i)
physical a nd financial statements; ( ii) r ecommendations and f indings of            the
international/national pa nel of experts; and ( iii) recommendations f or improvement of
implementation performance.

2.3.4      As r egular inspection and maintenance of the entire system of flood control dikes
are of u tmost importance to t he s uccess o f t he pr oject, M &E f or regular O &M has be en
detailed i n t he O &M manuals. F urthermore, in Hubei Province the pr oject e stablished a
computerized d ata acquisition s ystem of piezometers to moni tor seepage through t he d ike
body a nd f oundation a nd monument gauges f or de formation a nd s ettlement f or c ritical
sections of the dike body and foundation.



2.4          Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance




4
    Discussed in the Data Sheet (Section F) and Section 1.2.



                                                     9
2.4.1      The p roject t rigged three safeguard polices ( Environmental A ssessment, N atural
Habitats, a nd Involuntary Resettlement). T he pr oject d esign enhanced the likelihood of
compliance with t he relevant stipulations of ope rational policies by ma king environmental
and r esettlement di stinct components ( see S ection 1 .5). D uring implementation ove rall
compliance was satisfactory, although with some delay in release of funds for resettlement of
RAPs and construction o f s nail t raps f or s chistosomiasis control5. The B ank's p rocurement
policies a nd g uidelines a nd F inancial M anagement r equirements were followed during
implementation.

2.4.2 Significant environmental issues were identified and assessed during appraisal, and
corresponding environmental mitigation measures were developed in the EIA to compensate,
mitigate or m inimize t he a dverse i mpacts. All t he m itigation m easures h ave b een
implemented with satisfactory results during project implementation as described in the table
below. N o s ignificant a dverse environmental impacts were found and no outstanding
environmental issues occurred in project area.

    PAD Requirements                                                 Implementation Evaluation
    Establishment of Environmental Management Offices                Satisfactory
    Employment of international experts                              Satisfactory
    Recruitment of Environmental Construction Inspectors             Satisfactory
    Mitigation measures on Significant Environmental Issues          Highly Satisfactory
    Measures to mitigate construction impacts                        Highly satisfactory
    Timely EMP implementation                                        Satisfactory
    Environmental monitoring                                         Satisfactory

2.4.3     The resettlement of the p roject is satisfactory. With f ull i mplementation o f the
RAPs, all t he affected people w ere informed and c onsulted, a nd participated in r elevant
resettlement decisions a nd s pecific actions. All th e affected households have r estored t heir
housing, w ith b etter q uality a nd s urrounding environment a nd pu blic f acilities. The v illage
livelihood development p lans were f ully implemented, w ith p roductive infrastructure
recovered, a nd l and p roductivity e nhanced; a nd i n g eneral the livelihood o f t he affected i s
fully restored. T he affected e nterprises, infrastructure and p ublic f acilities ha ve b een fully
compensated and restored.

2.5          Post-Completion Operation and Next Phase

2.5.1      DMOs a re responsible f or bo th d ike strengthening and subsequent O&M f or the
strengthened d ikes a fter completion. The organizational and f unding arrangements for d ike
inspection and maintenance wo rks have b een s ubstantially i mproved. T he DMO s taff a t
various l evels is fully f unded by t he local t reasury and f inancial resources f or regular d ike
O&M have been earmarked and allocated annually by t he provincial Department of Finance
(DOF). Both Hubei and Hunan DOFs have issued specific official circulars on the application
procedures and disbursement regulations of the dike O&M funds.

2.5.2     The technical O &M m anuals w ere prepared i n 2 005 by t he C entral Project
Coordination Office (CPCO) and CWRC. These were subsequently adapted and updated by
both Hunan and Hubei provinces to guide the work of DMOs at all levels. The O&M manuals
detail responsibility a t various l evels, c overing pr ocedures for setting up dike inspection
programs; processing and e valuation o f i nspection r esults; and c ost e stimations of annual
maintenance programs.


5
    See RAP Reports and EA Reports prepared for Provincial ICRs (on file as listed in Annex 9).



                                                   10
2.5.3     The project specially provided modern equipment for dike maintenance, which has
increased the technical capacity to carry out regular maintenance. The project also furnished
office equipment to improve the efficiency of the maintenance organizations.

2.5.4      For ph ysical m odeling of the mi ddle Y angtze R iver reach, a t ask t eam h as be en
established b y C WRC a nd O &M costs ha ve b een incorporated i nto C WRC budget i tems
which are financed by a central treasury allocation. The O&M guidelines have been drafted
for further review and approval. The physical model has been designated as a "key research
laboratory" by Ministry of Water Resources (MWR), and aims to be listed as a national key
research l aboratory. It has al ready been utilized for a number of r esearch p rojects,
contributing not only to the formation of flood mitigation strategies but also directly serving
the relevant research programs on a fee-charging basis.

3.        Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1      The main project development objective (PDO) is to enhance the protection of the
river ba nk against erosion and to i mprove c ritical sections of existing main d ikes along the
banks of the mid-Yangtze River in Hunan and Hubei Provinces, thus protecting the properties
and l ives b ehind the dikes a gainst f loods. T he p roject also supports institutional reforms
aimed a t e nhancing the existing dike operation and ma intenance organizations, bot h
organizationally and technically. The PDO was highly relevant at appraisal and remains so at
project completion.

3.1.2      At appraisal in 2000, the project supported Government's strategies then endorsed
in t he C ountry A ssistance Strategy ( CAS) t o: ( i) pr omote a gricultural d evelopment a nd t he
rural e conomy b y incorporating m ajor w ater s torage, t ransfer, i rrigation d rainage a nd f lood
control programs into future projects, that include institutional reform and user participation
as i ntegral c omponents; ( ii) improve c ost recovery; ( iii) f ocus on the r econstruction of
essential infrastructure and reduce infrastructure bottlenecks; (iv) improve rural employment
and incomes; and (v) alleviate poverty.

3.1.3       At ICR, the project objectives are still consistent with the water sector development
priorities as i dentified b y the current g overnment po licy a nd Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) for China. The Bank's current CPS for China (CPS 35435-CN, May 23 2006) and the
Country W ater R esources Assistance Strategy (CWRAS-2002) i dentify f lood protection as
one of t he critical a reas for the Bank to support with both s tructural ( infrastructure
construction) and non-structural me asures ( institutional capacity b uilding, river basin
management, pa rticipatory a pproaches, and strengthening O &M), w hich a lso r emain hi gh
priorities in China's economic development strategy as defined in the national 11th Five-Year
Plan ( 2005-2010). T he PDOs thus are still h ighly r elevant as j udged b y the development
priorities and circumstances prevailing at the time of the ICR.

3.2       Achievement of PDO

3.2.1      Primary PDO: E nhancing t he p rotection of t he r iver ba nk against e rosion i n
critical sections of e xisting main di kes along t he banks of t he mid-Yangtze River in Hunan
and Hubei Provinces to protect the properties and lives behind the dikes against floods. This
has been satisfactorily achieved with assessment below:

3.2.2    General Assessment: The engineering wo rks f or the d ike s trengthening were
completed as d esigned with s ome minor adjustments of pr oject a ctivities in 200 5. With t he
completion o f s trengthening the r iver bank and existing flood p rotection d ikes along the
Yangtze River, t he r isk of di ke breaches that could l ead t o c atastrophic damage h as been


                                                 11
significantly reduced. The strengthened river banks have been in regular operation for the past
three years. According to well-established domestic procedures and standards, the Ministry of
Water R esources ( M WR) c ommissioned technical p anels composed of s enior e xperts i n
China to conduct the evaluation of the dike sections strengthened under this project in 2006
(for Wuhan Sections) and in 2008 ( for the Hunan and Hubei sections except Wuhan). The
Panels concluded t hat the strengthened dikes are structurally a nd t echnically adequate t o
command a 1: 20 year flood and with the completion of the Three Gorges Project (TGP). In
2009, flood protection w ill improve t o a 1 : 100 y ear return p eriod flood. The P anel's
evaluation w as thorough a nd r igorous, covering quality of raw materials, construction in
conformity with the Government Regulations on Dike Construction (SL260-98), compaction
not less than 0.92 as stipulated by the Bank as well as numerous other detailed tests6. As such,
the primary PDO has been satisfactorily achieved.

3.2.3      Specifically, the primary project objective has been achieved through the following
components7: River Bank and Dike Foundation Seepage Protection. River bank protection
works completed extended to 187 km (or 147% of appraisal estimates). Seepage control was
undertaken o ver 30 2 km ( 90%)8. Both a ctivities w ere c arried o ut b y th e C hangjiang Water
Resources Commission (CWRC), fully financed by Central Government with completion in
2003. Dike Strengthening for Hubei and Hunan Province. This included raising the height
of dikes, p rotecting t heir slopes, p reventing leakages t hrough the bo dy of the di ke and
rehabilitating or r eplacing c ross-dike s tructures. I n t otal, d ike strengthening c overed 49 5km
(103%), s lope protection 740km ( 157%) and action taken on 21 1 cross-dike s tructures
(156%). Engineering and Project Management. T his supported t he p reparation of f inal
designs and bidding doc umentation of t he project w orks a nd c onstruction s upervision. In
addition to the normal engineering and project management arrangements the component also
provided f or a de sign a nd construction s tandards r eview p anel a nd c onsultants t o a ssist t he
provinces with supervising the construction of works, with particular focus on quality control.

3.2.4     Secondary PDO: The project supports institutional reforms aimed at enhancing the
existing dike operation and maintenance organizations, both organizationally and technically.
This has been also successfully achieved as discussed below.

3.2.5      General assessment: T he c apabilities o f the i nstitutions r esponsible f or flood
control along the Yangtze River have been substantially enhanced, particularly with respect to
(i) flood control s tandards, r egulations, p olicies a nd emergency responses systems, ( ii)
research and d evelopment i n t he t echnology a nd methodology f or r iverbank pr otection,
foundation seepage control and flood risk analysis; and (iii) organization and funding for dike
O&M.

3.2.6     Specifically, this PDO has been achieved through implementation of the following
components: Dike Monitoring and River Modeling. Hubei Province h as s et up a
computerized system to monitor the seepage through the dike and settlement/deformation of
the dike. T he system c onsists of piezometers a t r egular and critical locations i nside a nd
outside the dike to monitor possible flows through the dike body and foundations. A real time
data acquisition s ystem h as b een established for all t he pi ezometer measurements, d ike
deformation and water levels along the dike. These measurements provide advanced warning
for possible weaknesses in the dikes during high water levels so that measures can be taken to
prevent dike breaches. The project also financed CWRC to develop a physical model of the
middle Yangtze R iver. T he mode l h elps pr edict s ediment and water flows from Yicheng to
Hukou. It also predicts the movement of the river channel in time and therefore gives CWRC
advance warming f or r iver b ank pr otection. F inally, the m odel w ill pr ovide i nformation o n

6
    See Evaluation Reports on Strengthened Yangtze Dikes by MWR (on file as listed in Annex 9).
7
    Figures in brackets give percentage of appraisal expectations.
8
    Which fulfilled all the actual seepage control.


                                                 12
Dongting Lake s edimentation a nd i ts c apacity t o r etain f lood s torage volume. T he ph ysical
model has been utilized for a number of research projects in the areas outlined above, and has
contributed to the formation of flood mitigation strategies for the future. Equipment for Dike
Maintenance. In the past, maintenance was largely by labor crews. The project has provided
wheel l oaders, b ulldozers, excavators, dump trucks, l ight vehicles a nd bo ats t o allow
mechanization of maintenance, as well as computers, fax machines and printers, to improve
further the e fficiency of t he maintenance organizations. Institutional Development and
Flood Prevention and Disaster Mitigation. The project has provided technical assistance,
training programs and study tours in China and other countries for MWR/CWRC, Hubei and
Hunan P rovinces. These a ctivities have addressed institutional constraints i n such c ritical
areas as: (i) dike maintenance; (ii) review of standards for flood control and design of dikes;
(iii) resolving complex design and construction issues; (iv) adoption of modern construction
technologies; a nd ( v) e nsuring f inancial a nd p hysical s ustainability of t he i nfrastructure
facilities. With p roject f inance, t he Flood Di saster P revention C enter ( FDPC) has been
established in MWR. Technical assistance was provided for: (i) review and recommendation
of changes of flood control standards, regulations and emergency response and disaster relief
procedures; ( ii) training and design i n ge o-technical investigation of dikes for P rovincial
Design I nstitutes; ( iii) t raining of f lood-fighting s taff; a nd (iv) t he s etting u p o f a t echnical
help desk for solving specific problems in flood control in the provinces and river basin. The
FDPC h as pr ovided a dvice to the f ormulation of f lood ma nagement a nd d isaster r eduction
policies and ha s conducted c omparative s tudies o f flood c ontrol design standards. T hese
capacities/studies are of national significance and long term effects.

3.2.7     In addition to the achievements of the above PDOs, t hrough p roject restructuring,
Hubei pr ovince un dertook further w orks along ma jor t ributary rivers c lose t o W uhan and
Huanggang. This i nvolved e mbankment s trengthening a nd s lope p rotection ove r 175km,
seepage control f or 107km a nd rehabilitation or replacement of 41 cross-dike structures.
These actions ha ve c ompleted t he line of f lood defenses protecting the two c ities. T hese
strengthened dikes on t he tributary rivers h ave a lso been subject t o rigorous qu ality c ontrol
standards and will be evaluated one year after completion, as in the case of the other works.

3.3        Efficiency

3.3.1      Economic Analysis: The principal e conomic b enefits f rom the p roject's
investments are the reduction in the expected future flood losses. These losses were based on
surveys of the losses during past f loods and e stimates o f l and areas f looded b y e vents of
different return p eriods. The f lood frequency and loss d ata were us ed t o c alculate c osts of
flooding, in the Without Project a nd With P roject s ituations. T he di fference between the
Without and the With Project situations provides the expected economic benefit (saved costs)
of reduced flooding. A further stream of benefits included is the potential reduction in flood
fighting costs, which will be lower with well constructed and maintained dikes resulting from
the project. Strengthening and raising the dikes have reduced the need and frequency of such
actions. The costs not only include all those directly financed by t he Bank project, but also
the i nvestment made by the government counterpart prior t o effectiveness of the project as
the n ational di ke s trengthening p rogram had been i mmediately started following t he h eavy
flood in 1998 . B ased on t he above, Project E RR h as been calculated at 44%, which clearly
indicates the robustness the economic viability of the project (See Annex3).

3.3.2     Financial Analysis: This project i s e ssentially o f a p ublic s ector i nvestment,
without involvement of any commercial entities. As such, financial analysis is not applicable.
The O &M c osts for the strengthened dikes and the physical mode l bui lt u nder the pr oject
have been and will be covered by the government budget allocation (See section 2.5.1). The
fees levied on the direct beneficiaries which cover a small fraction of the actual O&M costs,
have been directly handed over to the government treasury.



                                                    13
3.4       Justification of the Overall Outcome Rating

3.4.1      Based on the above assessments (Sections 3.1 to 3.3) the overall outcome is rated as
satisfactory.

3.5       Over-arching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects and Social Development

3.5.1       Prior to the p roject, t he l ivelihoods o f the communities a long t he di kes were
vulnerable t o the i nterruptions a nd t hreats p osed b y the f loods. With t he c ompletion of t he
project, the flood risks and damages have been significantly reduced.

3.5.2      All resettlement vi llages are pr ovided with s afe water supply, s anitary toilets,
drainage, s olid w aste collection, a nd clinics. Some o f the resettlement v illages now have
become good e xamples f or China's latest pr ogram of establishment of socialistic ne w
villages.

3.5.3     The construction of 40 snail traps in cross-dike structures by the project is the first
such large s cale p ractice i n s chistosomiasis control in China. Project areas were cited a s
demonstration s ites and field v isits w ere or ganized b y the National Conference o n
Schistosomiasis Control, chaired by a Vice Premier in Yueyang in 2005.

(b) Institutional Change and Strengthening

3.5.3     Institutional strengthening as a secondary PDO has been fully covered in Sections
3.2.4-3.2.6.

(c) Unintended Outcomes and Impacts.

3.5.4      The s trengthened d ike sections with l andscaping i n Wuhan city have b een t urned
into a large waterfront park f or the local citizens and tourists, making the r esidential blocks
along the Yangtze River bank the most sought after properties in the city.

3.6       Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

3.6.1      Neither project beneficiary surveys nor stakeholder workshops were organized for
this Core ICR.

4.        Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

4.1.1     The risk to the development outcome is rated Negligible to Low.

4.1.2     Technically t he de sign, construction and qu ality c ontrol s trictly followed t he
Decree f or Q uality C ontrol of E ngineering Construction p romulgated b y t he S tate C ouncil.
The assessment and evaluation commissioned by MWR had concluded that the main dikes are
technically up to the designed standards and will meet 20 year return floods. The strengthened
dikes on t he tributary r ivers a lso f ollowed rigorous qua lity c ontrol s tandards a nd will b e
evaluated one year after completion as per domestic procedures.

4.1.3       As the key thrust of the government Yangtze flood management strategy, the O&M
of the d ikes h as be en ensured in t erms of financial r esources and i nstitutional support (see
Section 2.5.1). Flood operations are very well organized through teams assigned to sections of
the di kes. M aintenance i s carried out at 2 levels w ith r outine and mi nor m aintenance being
carried out by DMO staff. Larger maintenance requirements are identified through an annual


                                                 14
maintenance pl anning e xercise a t C ounty l evel. T he Emergency P reparedness P lans ( EPPs)
are s plit into two areas of responsibility a nd conduct, w ith t he D MOs responsible for f lood
fighting a nd information ga thering. Depending o n t he s eriousness of t he f lood event, t he
DMOs al ert local administrations wh o t hen i mplement we ll o rganized execution drills t o
minimize loss of life and property.

4.1.4       While the full operation of Three Gorges Project (TGP) may bring changes in the
river r egime due t o s ediment movement i n t he middle and l ower r eaches o f Yan gtze River,
the O&M programs will closely monitor the expected impact and investments will be made
from O&M and major repair funds to mitigate the risks. Furthermore, the physical model will
also help to identify in advance the locations needed for additional river bank protection and
for river training needs.

5.        Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1       Bank

(a) Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.1      The project design was based on the long term government flood management plan
and the Yangtze B asin Flood C ontrol Master Plan and w as part of t he much l arger
government Y angtze dikes r epair program. T he p roject PDO clearly supported the water
sector priorities endorsed in the CAS (see Section 3.1). The technical soundness of the project
was ensured by the high quality of the designed engineering works and the methodologies and
criteria for, a nd supervision of, c onstruction. The project de sign internalized t he i mportant
lessons drawn from Bank's pr evious s imilar pr ojects i n C hina and br ought i n B ank's rich
international experience of O&M and institutional development. The project implementation
arrangement was well chosen and realistic as the implementation agencies (DMOs) are also
the m ain agencies r esponsible for O &M f unctions and r esponsibilities. T he p roject de sign
also adequately addressed the safeguard policies, M&E requirement and included an excellent
risk analysis and the mitigation measures.

5.1.2      QAG's rating o f quality a t entry was hi ghly s atisfactory. While t he ICR mi ssion
shares QAG's c omprehensive a nd objective assessment of qua lity at e ntry, the pos sible
savings of civil works, which l ed to the p roject r estructuring, could have been foreseen and
alternative use should have been identified ( see Section 2.1.7). It is also apparent that there
were some minor shortcomings such as inconsistency in PDO indicators (see Section 1.2).

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.3    Bank supervision mi ssions c omposed o f mul tidisciplinary specialists were
professional and r ealistic i n gauging t he project de velopment i mpact, focusing on t he
achievements of project outcome instead of only monitoring the physical targets. The project
could have b een c losed by e nd of 200 5 as a ll the phys ical targets set in the PAD were
achieved. However, the mission working with the counterparts clearly identified that the weak
tributary dikes a re a n integral pa rt of flood c ontrol system f or Wuhan a nd Huanggang and
made s trenuous efforts t o a ppraise a nd i mplement t he t wo subprojects during the project
extension (See Section 1.6). Without the additional strengthened tributary dikes, the original
PDO could not have been fully achieved. The supervision missions were candid in handling
problems such as resettlement compensation and environmental concerns (snail sinking tanks)
during i mplementation ( see S ection 2. 4.1). T he mission A ide Memoire and Management


                                               15
letters clearly i dentified issues for i mplementation and p roposed specific a nd t ime bound
actions, which were rigorously f ollowed up d uring t he subsequent supervision mi ssions.
Semi-annual m issions o f multi-disciplinary pr ofessionals and pr oject m anagement s taff ha d
core members engaged throughout project implementation who maintained excellent working
relationships with their counterparts.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.4 Based on the above the assessment of Bank's performance of quality at entry and
supervision, overall bank performance is rated satisfactory.

5.2       Borrower

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.1 This project was part of much bigger central government program, to which both central
and l ocal governments accorded t op priority i mmediately after t he he avy floods in 1998. A
Central P roject S teering C ommittee ( CPSC) w as set up, comprising of representatives f rom
the Ministry o f Finance, N DRC a nd M WR; a nd a Project Coordinating O ffice was a lso
established by MWR to c oordinate t he i mplementation of the p roject by H unan a nd Hubei
Provinces. I n addition e ach p rovince established a P roject L eading Group (PLG) a nd
Provincial Project Management Office (PPMO). Government at central and local levels put
in pl ace adequate a rrangements i n t erms o f staffing a nd f inancial r esources for pr oject
implementation. T he CPSC and PPMO honored commitments a nd d emonstrated s trong
leadership and effective coordination t hroughout pr oject pr eparation and i mplementation,
particularly with regard to project restructuring.

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

Implementing Agency                                    Performance
                     The staff was drawn from PDRC, PDOF PDWR not only for the infrastructure
                     construction but also the fiduciary and safeguard policy issues. They were very
                     responsive t o pr oblems e ncountered b y local PMOs a nd proposed t he pr oject
  Provincial Project
                     restructuring. Project O&M manuals were prepared and training given to local
 Management Office
                     project s taff on f inancial management and procurement. G ood w orking
 (PPMO) and CWRC
                     relationships were ma intained with the Bank T ask T eam, and pr oposals and
    project entities
                     actions r aised by supervision m issions were followed u p in a timely an d
                     efficient manner.

                     These P MOs w ere staffed by competent ad ministrators an d p rofessionals
                     throughout pr oject preparation and implementation. P MOs successfully
 Local level Project
                     carried o ut pr oject pl anning, preparation o f annual work plans, semi-annual
 Management Offices
                     progress reports, financial management and secured local government funding.
      (PMOs)
                     With initiative and based on frontline experience, they developed restructuring
                     proposals and effectively supervised contractors' work.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Based on the above, the overall borrower performance is rated Satisfactory.


                                                16
6.        Lessons Learned

6.1       The project has learned following important lessons applicable for river basin water
sector projects/programs:

6.1.1      In the context of a large river basin water sector program in China, the Bank project
should be f ully i ntegrated w ith t he n ational program. T he effectiveness o f the Bank's
involvement could be improved by adopting a "program approach". Simply taking up a pre-
identified " slice" of i nfrastructure could limit the r esponsiveness of a B ank pr oject t o the
overall needs of achievement of a program PDO;

6.1.2   This p roject h as pr oved t hat i nvolvement o f t he O &M entities i n t he pr oject
implementation process helps enhance sustainability of project works;

6.1.3     Water s ector pr ojects ne ed t o combine both engineering and n on-engineering
interventions to ensure project sustainability;

6.1.4    O&M of public sector investments, s uch as Y angtze D ike S trengthening, must
depend on f unding b y b udget allocations f rom c entral a nd l ocal government, partially
recouped by fees levied on the direct beneficiaries;

6.1.5      Safeguard policies can be best a ddressed i n project design b y making them t he
subject of discreet, fully costed and financed components; and

6.1.6     The practice of independent monitoring or supervision contributes significantly to
the successful project implementation, in particular for projects with substantial resettlement
and environmental management activities.




                                               17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                       Actual /Latest   Percentage of
                                 Appraisal Estimate
          Components                                     Estimate        Appraisal
                                    (US$ million)       (US$ million)        %

1 River Bank Protection                 84.38               129.33             153%
2 Dike Strengthening - Hubei           187.44               193.52             103%
3 Dike Strengthening - Hunan           42.94                 43.15             100%
4 Dike Monitoring/River
                                        20.42
Modeling                                                     25.8              126%
5 Equipment for Dike O&M                5.82                  5.9              101%
6 Resettlement                          85.76                95.32             111%
7 Environmental Management               1.72                1.76              102%
8 Engineering and Project
                                       18.00
Management                                                   19.1              106%
9 Institutional Development             5.16                 5.18              100%
Total Baseline Cost                    451.64
Physical Contingencies                  50.11
Price Contingencies                    17.89
Total Project Costs                    519.64               519.06             99.8%




(b) Financing

                                    Appraisal               Actual
                                                                        Percentage of
       Source of Funds               Estimate
                                                                         Appraisal
                                   (US$ million)       (US$ million)
Government( Central and Local)        309.64                314.56         102%
IBRD                                  210.00 2               04.50           97%
Total Funds                           519.64 5               19.06         99.8%




                                            18
Annex 2a: Output Indicators (Original PAD)

                                                PAD Ac                                      tual
                                                                                                          % of
                                     Hubei H unan           Total         Hubei     Hunan    total
                                                                                                          PAD
River Bank Protection(Km)*           82.4      45.0        127.42         152.1     35.1    187.2    147
Embankment(km) 38                        3.6   96.0        479.59         399.2     96.0    495.18   103
Slope Protection(Km)                 357.0     113.5       470.51         626.3     113.5   739.83   157
Seepage Control(Km)                  244.9     91.5        336.4          210.9     91.5    302.4    90
Cross Dike Structure (No.)           70.0      65.0        135.0          145.0     66.0    211      156
Note *   Implemented by CWRC with 100% domestic funds



Annex 2b. Output Indicators ( Restructuring Targets)**
                                                                                                     % of
                             Planned A                              ctual completion
                                                                                                     Planned

                             Wuhan    Huanggang T otal             Wuhan H uanggang         Total

Embankment(km) 12              3.5    53.6             177.1       121.5      53.4          174.9    98.8%
Slope Protection(Km)         123.5    53.6             177.1       121.5      53.7          175.3    99.0%
Seepage Control(Km)          68.8     42.1             110.9       67.7       39.2          106.9    96.4%
Cross Dike Structure
                             44.0     6.0              50.0        35.0       6.0           41.0     82.0%
(No.)

** The additional output indicators for the two restructurings. Actual achievements
were as of the close date of Bank project (31/12/2008). The tributary dikes strengthening
was still going on at the ICR mission (March 2009) using only government funds.




                                                      19
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

A.        Methodologies for Economic Analysis

1.         The analysis broadly follows the methodology adopted at Appraisal. The principal
economic b enefits f rom t he project's i nvestments are the r eduction in the expected f uture
flood losses. These losses are based on surveys of the losses during past floods and estimates
of land areas flooded by events of different flood return periods. The flood frequency and loss
data w ere us ed t o c alculate c osts due to flooding, i n t he W ithout Project a nd With Project
situations. The difference between the Without and the With Project situations provides the
expected e conomic b enefit (saved costs) of r educed flooding. A f urther stream of be nefits
included is the potential reduction in flood fighting costs. Strengthening and raising the dikes
will have reduced the need and frequency of such actions.

B.               Project Benefits

2          The primary b enefits of flood a lleviation schemes are given by the l osses t hat
would otherwise occur. The National Codes (SL 72-94 and SL 206-98) require surveys to be
undertaken after e ach flood t o d etermine t he f lood l osses. T hus, an extensive data base of
flood losses h as been bui lt-up, although t he sampling strategy adopted was weak i n on e
instance a nd some of t he derived values w ere f or financial r ather t han economic l osses. In
general, the raw data was not available and the aggregated loss data has generally been used
in the b enefit-cost a nalyses prepared f or t he two P rovinces. This h as b een s upplemented
where necessary by estimates for items such as disruption of train and road services.

3.        The major quantifiable, incremental be nefits of t he p roject are derived f rom t he
following:

4.           Losses in urban areas China has c ollected what a re, in m any ca ses, excellent,
detailed surveys of flood losses in past floods. The National Codes then require these surveys
of l osses i n past floods t o be used t o estimate t he l osses from future f loods. T hese surveys
have calculated flood losses in terms of the proportion of the total values of different classes
of assets at risk and/or in a loss per mu (rural areas) and a loss per capita (urban areas). This
proportional loss approach is consistent with the methods used in many countries. (1) Direct
damages: The a pproach a pplied i n the Provincial a nalyses a nd adopted in the analyses
undertaken for this report expresses the expected losses to a particular class of buildings and
their contents as a proportion of the total asset value of those classes within the affected area.
These values w ere t hen converted into a l oss per mu i n r ural areas and a l oss per capita in
urban a reas; and (2) Indirect losses: The N ational c ode ( SL206-98) pr oposes t hat 20 % o f
direct losses be taken to give indirect losses. For both Hunan and Hubei the analyses include
estimates of the costs of disruption on the main rail lines and industrial production losses.

5.           Agricultural losses: The two main components of losses are to standing crops and
to livestock. B ecause of the long du ration of the flood b oth the spring and autumn crops o f
rice are affected; the standing plants of the first crop are lost and planting of the second crop
is delayed so that a catch crop must be planted, if possible, instead. For the purposes of the
analysis both provinces h ave t aken t he simple a nd conservative a ssumption, based on t he
statistics from previous floods that in the flood affected areas losses are estimated at 50% of
total annual agricultural production value.




                                                20
6.         Reductions in flood fighting costs: Repair and strengthening o f t he d ikes w ill
result in some s aving i n c ost of f lood f ighting activities. Data on t he cost of these are
available from previous flood events.

7.        Other s ignificant b ut no t readily q uantifiable be nefits e xcluded from the a nalysis
include the following:

    ·   Reductions in disruption to navigation: When t he wat er l evel ex ceeds a critical
        level, the flood fighting headquarters in Beijing may order the suspension of shipping
        movements so as to eliminate the risk of wash damage to the embankments.

    ·   Reduction of inland flooding losses: In t he pr e-project situation, p umped dr ainage
        of areas behind the dikes was suspended during major floods because of fears that the
        increased fl ow in the main ri ver would fu rther increase the ri sk o f dike failure.
        Raising t he d ikes ma ke pumping p ossible during ma jor floods and r esults both in
        reduction in localized flooding behind the dike as well as enabling the water table to
        be maintained at levels desirable for maximum crop yield.

    ·   Reduced risk to life and health: The main reason why flood alleviation schemes are
        undertaken is to reduce the risk to people's lives and is a major unquantifiable project
        benefit. I n addition, there is a significant r isk of disease w hen p older a reas become
        flooded.

C. Project Costs

8.         Project c osts i nclude (1) all the di ke s trengthening c osts including those for the
secondary d ikes; (2) r iver bank pr otection c osts w hich were 100 % f inanced by t he c entral
government, ( 3) Costs for resettlement and environmental pr otection; (4) r elated investment
costs in the sections financed under the government program; (5) institutional strengthening
and project ma nagement c osts; a nd ( 6) d ike O &M costs. U nder i tems ( 1) a nd ( 2) the cost
stream i ncludes pre-investments m ade by G overnment as an i ntegral pa rt of dike and r iver
bank improvement program.

D. Impact of Three Gorges Project (TGP)

9.        The TGP will have a n impact on t he flood management of t he two pr ovinces,
depending upon the contribution and timing of the flood flows from tributaries to the Yangtze
River. T he b enefits d irectly g enerated f rom t he p roject wi ll r educe after the co mpletion of
TGP in 2009. Project benefits after 2009 have therefore been accordingly reduced.

E. Key Parameters for Analysis

10.       The key parameters for the a nalysis are assumed a s b elow: (1) pr oject l ife i s
estimated to b e 50 ye ars; ( 2) in conformity w ith disaster loss a nalysis i n C hina i t ha s b een
assumed that t he uni t value of flood losses i ncrease by 3% a nnually, a s per na tional c ode
(SL206-98); ( 3) ph ase- i n of p roject b enefits o nly starts f rom a fter t he completion of
strengthened dikes.




                                                 21
F. ERR Estimation

11.       Based on the above, the project EER is estimated at 44% (Hubei 49%, Hunan 21%)
which i ndicates t he project i s economically v iable and robust. Valuing losses at constant
annual values, rather than assuming a 3% per year increase in value would reduce the overall
ERR to 41% (Hubei 4 4%, Hu nan 1 7%). De tailed EER c alculations a re co ntained in t he
Annex to government ICR (see Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents).


G. Financial Analysis

12.        This project is essentially a public sector investment and no commercial entities are
involved. The O&M costs for the strengthened dikes and the physical model built under the
project have been and will be covered by the government budget allocations (See ICR main
text: S ection 2. 5.1). T otal a nnual c ost of O&M i s around Y uan 100 million ( US$ 14 .64
million) for Hubei and Yuan 15 million (US$ 2.19 million) for Hunan. This is only a fraction
of the total annual tax revenue of over Yuan 45 billion (US$ 6.59 billion) for each province.




                                              22
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                     Responsibility/
          Names                         Title                 Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending

Daniel J. Gunaratnam      Lead Water Resources Specialist    EASRE        TTL
Xiaokai Li                Sr. Water Resources Specialist     EASRE        TTL
Songling Yao              Social Development Specialist      EASCS
Richard Reidinger         Sr. Water Resources Specialist     EASRE
                          Environmental Specialist
Qingtao Xie
                          (Consultant)


Supervision/ICR
Xiaokai Li                Sr. Water Resources Specialist     EASRE        TTL
Geoffrey Spencer          Sr. Water Resources Specialist     EASRE        TTL
Ximing Zhang              Water Resources Specialist         EASCS        TTL
Xiaowei Guo               Sr. Procurement Specialist         EAPCO
Songling Yao              Social Development Specialist      EASCS
Xueming Liu               Senior Economist                    FAO
Qingtao Xie               Environmental Spec. (Consultant)
Zuyu Chen                 Water Engineer (Consultant)



(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

    Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands
                                   No. of staff weeks         (including travel and
                                                                 consultant costs)

              Lending


                FY99                                                 103.13
                FY00                          65                     431.67
                FY01                          11                     20.32
                FY02                                                  0.00
                FY03                                                  0.00
                FY04                                                  0.00
                FY05                                                  0.00
                FY06                                                  0.00
                FY07                                                  0.00
                          Total:              76                     555.12


                                         23
       Supervision/ICR
             FY00                                        0.19
             FY01                                   9   40.52
             FY02                                  20   84.79
             FY03                                  13   37.38
             FY04                                  19   82.34
             FY05                                  14   75.71
             FY06                                  19   91.46
             FY07                      100.9522
                                                   22   76.96
             FY08                                   7
                         Total:                   145   590.30




Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N.A.

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N.A




                                       24
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                     25
26
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N.A.




Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.    QAG Evaluation of Quality at Entry.
2.    Aide Memoires and related Annexes prepared by the supervision missions
3.    Aide Memoire and related Annexes of the ICR mission
4.    Consolidated ICR prepared by the CPCO
5.    ICRs and Annexes prepared by the PPMOs (Hubei & Hunan)
6.    ICRs and Annexes prepared by the FDPC
7.    RAP Reports prepared by Hunan and Hubei Provinces
8.    EA Report prepared by Hunan and Hubei Provinces
9.    List of Training Activities under the Project
10.   Evaluation Reports on Strengthened Yangtze Dikes by MWR
11.   Economic analysis (spreadsheets) by Hunan and Hubei Provinces




                                             27
28
