Document of
J~J~ ~J~>~j               The World B3ank
FOIR OIUfI¢CIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1952-SW
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
FOR A
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 9, 1977
This document has a restricted distiribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



19 1.00t      0  MR 138
cmm   coml?oa        1 US$20 11
CCU0     C0QI?TcL C@0Ls Upi±
TMS      ftUgS.eMsato oona   o
BO iBO   OGS90    0vloseat gandsvi   Ba
HM      ouugm BnRats oweloa DXQVGcPGt &Bgho l
ma)p ~ ~ RR 1bglm DOW(DOP&at ioT
BBBo °looa  BwsIRpE)lo  sQEgoa) o  lagodo $as   to  1> c 3o yI
0010%O2 90M   m3tA &Qg 9000   OBCIteRS D?laSascd
o ~ ~ ~ FSA agst SDflpQt
$A ~ ~ ~ ~ °  iR i$AO31Eo   E OD  Q QB



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPHENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
FOR A RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation    for a proposed
loan to the Kingdom of Swaziland in the equivalent of US$4.0 million to
help finance a rural development project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2 percent
per annum. The African Development Bank, as administrator of the Nigerian
Trust Fund, will provide a loan of approximately US$5.4 million equivalent
to the Kingdom of Swaziland for a term of 25 years, including 5 years of
grace, with interest at 4 percent per annum. The European Economic Com-
munity (European Development Fund) and the United Kingdom Ministry of Overseas
Development will provide grants of approximately US$2.9 million equivalent
and approximately US$0.3 million equivalent respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on
Swaziland" (No. 852a-SW) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
November 24, 1975. A special mission visited the country in September 1976
as part of a study on regional migration in southern Africa. An updating
economic mission is scheduled to visit Swaziland in August 1977. Country
data are shown in Annex I.
3.        Swaziland is one of the smallest countries on the African continent.
Located in southern Africa, it is surrounded by the Republics of South Africa
and Mozambique. In 1976, its population was estimated at 525,000 (of which
approximately 29,000 live abroad, mainly as migrant workers in South Africa)
with a growth rate of about 3.2 percent per annum. Relative to its size
and population, the country is well endowed with natural resources and has
good potential for development. It has some mineral deposits (of which iron
ore is nearing depletion) and its soil and climate are favorable to a diver-
sified agricultural production.
4.        The economy is highly dualistic and almost half the land is owned
by foreigners. The modern sector, which is largely foreign owned, consists
of mining (asbestos, iron ore, coal), large-scale plantations of forestry,
sugar, citrus and pineapples, and associated industries such as pulp, saw-
milling, sugar and fruit processing. The traditional sector, on the other
hand, is based largely on cattle raising and subsistence agriculture (maize,
groundnuts, sorghum) which directly supports about one-half of the population.
5.        This economic dualism is to some extent a reflection of the Govern-
ment structure. The King rules the modern Government through an appointed
Cabinet of Ministers who manage the country's normal economic activities and
provide the bulk of services to the people. However, in traditional matters
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
and over all activities concerning Swazi Nation land (this term refers to
about 60 percent of the territory of Swaziland which is held communally
for the Swazi people by the King), the King relies on the advice of the
Swazi National Council (SNC), a group of senior Swazi chiefs and leaders.
When the modern Government becomes involved in developing the Swazi Nation
land's agricultural and mineral resources, considerable deliberations by
both the Cabinet and SNC are required. Consequently, economic change has
been slow on Swazi Nation land in contrast to the modern agricultural sector's
rapid development.
6.        The Swazi economy has a good growth record.    During the 1950s and
1960s, the modern sector developed rapidly; real GDP grew at about 12 percent
a year.   Apart from tourism, no major new industries have been established
since independence in 1968; however, expansion of existing enterprises and the
Government sector, together with a growing number of smaller enterprises,
sustained real growth in GDI' at about 7 percent a year between 1968 and 1975.
Because of favorable terms of trade, particularly in the last few years, real
income grew even faster (9 percent a year). At current prices, GNP per capita
was estimated at about US$470 in 1975. GDP is projected to grow at about
6 percent a year up to 1980, based mainly on expanding agricultural exports
(sugar, citrus, woodpulp, beef) whose markets are expected to remain generally
favorable over the next several years.
7.        The country's sustained economic growth has been due mainly to
private investment. Since 1968, gross private investment has averaged about
19 percent of GDP and Government capital expenditures about 7 percent. As
Swazi entrepreneurship was, and still is, quite limited, almost all modern
activities have been carried out by foreign companies, under foreign manage-
ment, and with foreign capital. This development pattern has actually sharpened
the dualism in the Swazi society and economy which the Government inherited at
independence. The modern sector now contributes about 80 percent of GDP and
wage employment and 90 percent of direct taxes. The main sector, agriculture
and forestry, accounts for close to 35 percent of GDP and 40 percent of total
wage employment, while manufacturing contributes 15 percent and 12 percent,
respectively. The traditional rural sector, which accounts for about 14
percent of GDP, has remained virtually stagnant over the years. Because wage
employment in the modern sector grew at over 10 percent a year during the
1960s, the labor force in traditional agriculture declined from 72 percent in
1960 to about 50 percent in 1974.
8.        Swaziland's Second National Development Plan (NDP) 1973-77 emphasizes
four main objectives: (1) to create conditions for sustained private sector
growth; (2) to promote rural development and modernize traditional agriculture;
(3) to improve the relevance and usefulness of education; and (4) to provide
better housing and health conditions for low-income families in urban and
rural areas. Planned allocations to the main sectors are: infrastructure
29 percent; agriculture and forest 19 percent; community services 19 percent;
education and health 14 percent. The Government realizes that most of the
momentum in the economy will be generated by the modern sector; nevertheless
it is committed to assisting the majority of the population who remain in the



traditional sector, and who have not sufficiently shared the benefits of
Swaziland's growth. The main strategy for traditional sector development
is through integrated rural development areas (RDAs). Shortages of technical
and management personnel have limited implementation, but in the northern
area, where substantial inputs have been concentrated, increases in yields
of a number of crops as well as farmers' incomes have been encouraging.
The Third NDP (1978-82), currently under preparation, is expected to emphasize
agricultural, educational and industrial development.
9.        Since 1971, owing to the sharp increase in mining wages in the
Republic of South Africa (RSA), the number of Swazis recruited for mining
employment doubled. At the same time, there is a shortage of labor for
domestic modern agriculture (in particular, the sugar plantations) and of
skilled Swazis for the modern non-agricultural sector. The Government's
long-term education policy aims to alleviate this problem, through restructur-
ing the educational system and emphasizing vocational and technical rather
than academic training. Programs, assisted by the Bank (para. 15), already
are underway to expand technical institutions and accelerate curriculum
reform, particularly to better serve rural development.
10.       Together with Botswana, Lesotho and South Africa, Swaziland belongs
to the Southern Africa Customs Union. Under this arrangement, Swaziland
draws customs and excise revenue from a common revenue pool according to the
value of its total imports and production of taxable goods. Swaziland also
belongs, along with Lesotho and RSA, to the Rand Monetary Area. In September
1974, Swaziland issued its own national currency, the emalangeni (E) with the
same par value as the rand; both currencies are legal tender in Swaziland.
A Monetary Authority manages the country's new monetary system. In order
to remain in the Rand Monetary Area and be able to continue drawing on its
foreign exchange reserves, Swaziland has agreed to maintain 100 percent of the
value of the emalangeni in circulation in a rand account with the South
African Reserve Bank. This requirement, as well as the free convertibility of
the two currencies, limits somewhat the scope for credit management by the
Monetary Authority.
11.       Government finances have improved significantly since 1969 when
the revision of the Customs Union Agreement substantially increased revenues
and eliminated the Covernment's chronic budget deficits. At the same time,
the Government strengthened the tax administration and introduced new taxes
(in particular, the hotel tax and sugar levy). As a result, recurrent revenue
increased from E 8.5 milion in 1967/68 to E 42 million in 1974/75. Cor-
respondingly, recurrent expenditures grew from E 13 million to E 24.8 million.
A recent revision of the revenue distribution formula of the Customs Union
Agreement should help maintain the Government's favorable financial position
over the next several years, even though revenues under the sugar levy are
expected to decline.
12.       Swaziland's membership in the Rand Monetary Area has meant ready
access to the Area's exchange reserves; in turn this has made consideration



- 4 -
of Swaziland's foreign exchange and balance of payments matters not of much
practical significance since the Area has benefited from sizeable foreign
exchange surpluses. In view of the current difficult economic situation
facing the Republic of South Africa, the major partner in the Rand Monetary
Area, it is important to examine Swaziland's external trade situation in the
eventuality that Swaziland withdrew from the Rand Monetary Area. As regards
merchandise trade, exports have increased from US$39 million in 1968 to about
US$174 million in 1975, largely as a result of increased production and
favorable prices on world markets of sugar and forestry products which account
for 60 percent of total export value. At the same time, imports have increased
less rapidly, from US$51 million to US$124 million, with the result that
Swaziland has for many years enjoyed a favorable balance of merchandise trade.
As the country sells about 70 percent of its exports to Europe, North America
and Japan, and imports about 90 percent of its requirements from the RSA, it
has been a substantial net earner of foreign exchange for the Rand Monetary
Area. Swaziland should be able to maintain a favorable trade balance in the
event it withdrew from the Rand Monetary Area.
13.       Until 1975, the United Kingdom was the major source of foreign
financial assistance, providing funds to cover Swaziland's budget deficits
as well as grants and long-term interest-free loans for development. During
the last few years, however, Swaziland has diversified its sources of foreign
assistance. In addition to ODM, several bilateral agencies, including USAID
and SIDA, as well as multilateral lenders, such as IDA, IBRD, AfDB and EDF,
contribute to financing the Government's capital budget. Because of the slow
buildup of absorptive capacity, the utilization of foreign assistance following
independence has been sluggish. A substantial technical assistance program is
now in place, and recent experience suggests that the country's absorptive
capacity is improving, as local staff benefit from training and experience.
14.       On December 31, 1975, Swaziland's external public debt (outstanding
and disbursed) was US$46.3 million; service obligations on this debt amounted
to US$1.8 million. Swaziland's future external public debt (including un-
disbursed) is expected to increase to some US$250 million by 1985 and annual
debt service obligations will be about US$15 million, or less than 10 percent
of estimated exports in 1985. Since the Government is able to draw on the
foreign exchange earnings of the Rand Monetary Area, the debt service ratio
expressed as a percentage of exports is mainly an indicator of Swaziland's
external debt carrying capacity if the country were to withdraw from the
Rand Monetary Area. A more useful indicator of the Government's current
debt service capacity is the ratio of debt service payments to Government
revenue. In 1975, servicing of existing public debt represented 3 percent
of current Government revenue; by 1985, we estimate this would increase to
6 percent and should not create an unmanageable burden on the country's
finances.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SWAZILAND
15.       Six Bank Group operations in Swaziland, of which three were before
independence, have totaled US$25.25 million. An IDA credit of US$2.8 million,
approved in 1962, helped finance the construction of the first highway project.
Two loans, one for US$4.2 million in 1963 and the other for US$2.75 million in
1967, were made to assist the Swaziland Electricity Board in the development
of the power sector. All three projects have been completed satisfactorily.
No loans or credits were made between 1968 and 1974; an irrigation project was
appraised during that period but was found uneconomic. Following intensified
preparation work, three projects were approved by the Executive Directors
in FY75: a US$5.0 million credit for an educational project designed to
strengthen vocational, technical, commercial and rural education programs; a
US$3.5 million loan to extend the water supply and sewerage facilities in the
Mbabane and Manzini areas; and a US$7.0 million loan for the second highway
project which will improve to bitumen standard two major road sections.
Implementation of all three projects is proceeding satisfactorily. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits to Swaziland.
16.       Future Bank Group operations in Swaziland will continue to support
the Government's development efforts to expand the role of the Swazis in the
modern sector, and to raise the productivity and level of incomes of those
Swazis dependent on traditional agriculture. We have completed the appraisal
of two additional projects which we expect to submit to the Executive Directors
late this fiscal year or early in FY78: a second education project to expand
junior secondary schools and provide practical studies facilities in rural
schools; and a line of credit to the National Industrial Development Corpora-
tion of Swaziland to help promote medium and small-scale enterprises. A third
highway project is currently being prepared for presentation to the Executive
Directors in FY79. The project would help to improve about 100 km of
Swaziland's national highway network and would provide technical assistance
for improving the Ministry of Works' road maintenance capability. A second
rural development project is scheduled for presentation in FY80. It would
extend to new areas of Swazi Nation land the improvements in infrastructure,
extension and marketing currently being provided in the first rural develop-
ment project.
17.       Debt to the Bank as a percentage of total debt (outstanding and
disbursed) is projected to increase from 17 percent in 1975 to about 24 per-
cent in 1985. The Bank's share in total public debt service would increase
from 26 percent at present to about 34 percent in 1985. Increases in the
Bank's share of debt and debt service reflect the expectation that Swaziland
would continue to receive a significant amount of its external financial
assistance on grant or near-grant terms. Swaziland's exports and public
revenue prospects remain favorable and its ability to service debt on con-
ventional terms has improved considerably; the country continues to be
creditworthy for Bank lending. During the Fourth IDA Replenishment,
Swaziland has been a blend country, but due to the favorable growth in
Swaziland's economy in recent years and prospects for a continuation of



- 6 -
this trend, we do not at this time anticipate additional IDA lending in
Swaziland. In Swaziland's Third NDP (1978-82), currently under preparation,
proposed development expenditures will likely exceed US$200 million. The
Government intends to make a significant financial contribution to this
development program and its favorable financial prospects will enable it to do
so. But the Government also desires to build up reasonable budgetary reserves
during this period to insulate its on-going programs from sudden reductions
in Government revenue due to external factors such as downturn in agricultural
prices or difficulties arising in the Southern Africa Customs Union or Rand
Monetary Area. Consequently, to complement its own resources, the Government
will seek new commitments of external aid for its programs in the Third
NDP including financing for some project local costs. This strategy appears
sound, and external assistance agencies should be prepared to finance a
significant amount of total costs including some local costs of projects
having a relatively low foreign exchange content.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
18.       Agriculture in Swaziland dominates the economy; in the modern sector,
it accounts for 40 percent of total wage employment and nearly 80 percent of
the value of exports; in the traditional sector it provides a subsistence
livelihood for half of the total population. An important factor enabling
agriculture to play a prominent role in Swaziland's economy is the remarkable
range of topographical conditions in a country of limited territory. Distinct
topographic regions divide the country into four zones: the Highveld in the
west, a mountainous region of high rainfall suitable for forest; the Middle-
veld, in the midwest, an area of fertile soils and rolling grasslands; the
Lowveld, further east, a dry, low-lying grassland area ideal for irrigated
estates and cattle ranches; and the Lubombo plateau in the east, with higher
altitudes, higher rainfall and fertile soils. The combination of adequate
rainfall, perennial rivers, and a range of good soils and climates has enabled
the diversification of agricultural production. In the modern sector, the
most significant crops are sugar, cotton, citrus and forest products; in the
traditional sector, maize, groundnuts, beans and sorghum. Livestock plays an
important role in the traditional sector where it primarily represents a
form of status and wealth and secondarily a source of food and income.
Modern Agriculture
19.       The modern agricultural sector in Swaziland, which has grown at a
rate of 10 percent per annum for the past decade, comprises the farms, estates
and plantations under freehold title. Approximately 681,000 ha, 39 percent of
Swaziland, falls into this category; it is owned by expatriates, foreign-
controlled corporations and an increasing number of Swazis. Almost all of
Swaziland's commercial crops and forestry products are grown on 600 large
freehold farms and estates which employ modern, highly productive agricultural
technology. The Swazi Nation has recently acquired significant minority stock-
holdings in two of the largest commercial operations: the sugar estates owned



- 7 -
by the Commonwealth Development Corporation(CDC) and the Lonrho Corporation.
Each estate has its own mill and irrigated cane fields, and is capable of
producing almost 100,000 metric tons yearly. CDC also owns conifer and
eucalyptus plantations covering 50,000 acres in the Highveld and produces
unbleached kraft paper from its mill; Peak Timbers Corporation, a subsidiary
of Anglo-American Corporation, owns a similar sized plantation and sawmill
in northwest Swaziland.
Traditional Agriculture
20.       In contrast, traditional agricultumloutput has increased only
3 percent a year over the past decade, barely keeping pace with the growth
of population. Traditional agriculture generally is practiced on Swazi
Nation land (para 5). Approximately 984,000 ha, 57 percent of Swaziland's
territory, are classified in this category. Here the land is held in trust
by the King and allocated by the chiefs to the Swazi people. Families enjoy
some degree of security of tenure, including the right of their children to
inherit their land, but the land may not be sold and the chief can always
reallocate it, though this seldom occurs.
21.       Only about 100,000 ha, or 10 percent of the Swazi Nation land,
are suitable for crop production. An estimated 39,000 families farm this
land with each family averaging less than 3 ha. Production is primarily
for subsistence and less than 10 percent of total production is offered
for sale on the commercial market. Maize, the staple food of Swaziland,
is the principal crop, occupying about 80 percent of total crop area. In
recent years, farmers on Swazi Nation land have rapidly increased their
production of cash crops, notably cotton, tobacco, and vegetables, but this
still represents a very small portion of Swazi Nation land production.
Farming techniques are almost exclusively traditional, either by hand or using
oxen. Women traditionally are the principal farmers with those men who remain
in the traditional sector predominantly concerned with livestock.
22.       About 800,000 ha, 80 percent of Swazi Nation land, are used as
communal grazing pastures for livestock. Total cattle numbers were estimated
at 620,000 in 1975; of these 520,000 were owned by about 27,000 Swazi farmers
and grazed on Swazi Nation land (the remaining 100,000, generally exotic or
upgraded animals, were located on freehold title ranches). Goats also are
an important source of food and cash, and an estimated 250,000 goats are
owned by 13,000 families. Cattle husbandry techniques remain traditional;
total marketed offtake is less than 10 percent. Overstocking is an acute
problem on Swazi Nation land. Excellent veterinary services, including
universal and compulsory dipping at over 600 diptanks, have sharply reduced
mortality, without corresponding increases in offtake or pasture carrying
capacity. As a result, pastures have degenerated, soil erosion on grazing
areas has increased and more animals are suffering from malnutrition.
The Ministry of Agriculture operates fattening and breeding ranches, designed
to encourage farmers to remove cattle from communal pastures. To date,
results of efforts to encourage destocking have not been encouraging, but
under a broad national livestock program the Government has committed sub-
stantial resources to finding solutions to the problem.



- 8 -
23.       All proposals for development of Swazi Nation land must be reviewed
and approved by the Central Rural Development Board (CRDB), a group of senior
Swazi chiefs and leaders appointed by the King and reporting directly to him.
The CRDB represents the King and the Swazi National Council on all matters
affecting the natural resources of Swazi Nation land. It considers proposals
at the conceptual stage when development plans are drawn up and later during
their implementation. Before approving any proposal, whether submitted by
the Government, the private sector, or the chiefs themselves, the CRDB consults
with the Swazis living in the areas concerned. To assist with this task, the
CRDB has appointed rural development officers (seven at present) who discuss
proposed developments with the people and later assist with implementation.
The CRDB has a good working relationship with the Government; the Secretary
to the Cabinet acts as the executive secretary of the CRDB.
Agricultural Services
24.       The dichotomy in Swaziland between the Swazi Nation and the Swaziland
Government (para. 5) complicates the supply of services to the traditional
agricultural sector. Several Government ministries and parastatal bodies
are responsible for providing the majority of services -- planning, credit,
extension, inputs, training, marketing and health services -- for improving
agriculture. Since the traditional authorities must approve any activity on
Swazi Nation land, Government agencies and the traditional hierarchy have col-
laborated closely at both planning and implementation stages.
25.       The Ministry of Agriculture is the principal Government institution
involved in rural development. The Ministry has two major departments: the
Agricultural Department, responsible for crop production and extension, land
development, fisheries, forests and home economies; and the Veterinary Depart-
ment, responsible for livestock extension and production. In addition, the
Ministry has a Land Planning Section, an Economic Section and an Administration
and Finance Section. The Ministry has recently approved a reorganization
which will merge crop and livestock extension services and promote an in-
tegrated approach to farmers' problems.
26.       Other important Government institutions involved in rural development
are those providing agricultural credit. The Government has recently assisted
the organization of the Central Cooperative Union (CCU) which, along with
primary cooperatives, is intended to organize the supply and sales of agricul-
tural inputs, to assist in marketing produce, and to increase availability
of credit to farmers. The CCU, through its member primary societies, has
grown rapidly and now provicles about one-third of the inputs on Swazi Nation
land; it has, however, had a limited role in providing credit. The main
institution concerned with agricultural credit is the Swaziland Development
and Savings Bank (SDSB). Although most of its agricultural lending is for
large commercial agricultural operations, SDSB has received a long-term loan
of US$750,000 from USAID to promote the development of small farmer credit.
The principal drawbacks to SDSB's small-scale credit operations are extensive
overheads, cumbersome procedures and high collateral requirements. Deliquency
rates on loans to Swazi Nation land farmers, who generally borrow less than
E 500 on a seasonal basis, are high. Recently SDSB has had success in employ-
ing bill collectors to assist with arrears. To reduce costs and increase



- 9 -
rural credit usage, SDSB is considering proposals for more streamlined opera-
tions, reduced security requirements and further collaboration with the CCU
and farmer cooperatives.
Rural Development Area (RDA) Program
27.       The Rural Development Area (RDA) Program has become the primary
vehicle for the Government's efforts at stimulating the growth of the tra-
ditional sector. The RDA Program's roots extend back into the colonial era
when the British Government first conceived schemes for developing Swazi
Nation land. These first efforts generally were unsuccessful because neither
the tribal leaders nor the people were involved in their design and implemen-
tation; their emphasis was on improving infrastructure and not directly on
raising incomes of Swazi smallholders. In 1970, the Swaziland Government
initiated a new RDA Program with the assistance of the British Ministry
of Overseas Development (ODM). The scheme was designed as a long-range
program to be drawn up in consultation with the Swazi farmers to promote
agricultural development in rural areas and to bring about improvements in the
living standards of the Swazi farmers.    The RDA Program provides a range of
agricultural services and inputs to designated areas of Swazi Nation land
which have been selected for their agricultural potential, the interest of the
local population in development, and the size of the population. ODM is
currently assisting implementation of the RDA Program in four RDAs, and over
the next three years will continue its capital assistance for the Program in
these areas, each of which will be enlarged during that time. This assistance
is separate from ODM's agreement to provide technical assistance in the
project for the RDA Management Unit which will be responsible for coordinating
all RDA activities in Swaziland.
28.       The Ministry of Agriculture   is responsible for implementing the
RDA Program; RDA project staff within the Ministry coordinate the activities
of all the ministries and institutions involved in the Program. These include
the Ministries of Commerce and Cooperatives, Local Administration, Education,
Health, and Works, Power and Communications, as well as the SDSB and CCU. The
RDA project staff also oversee external assistance, which is mainly from ODM
(project staff, civil works, equipment and vehicles), USAID (technical as-
sistance and equipment for land development and soil conservation activities,
and funds for rural credit) and UNDP/FAO (staff and funds for livestock
development and crop production projects).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
29.       The proposed project was prepared by the Swaziland Government's
Ministry of Agriculture with assistance from the staff of the Bank's Regional
Mission in Eastern Africa. An appraisal mission visited Swaziland in June
1976, followed by cofinancing discussions with the principal donors in November
1976. The cofinancing agencies did not participate in the appraisal; they
have based their participation in the project on the Bank's appraisal report.
Negotiations for the proposed loan took place in Washington in January 1977.
The Government of Swaziland's delegation was led by Mr. James Nxumalo, Per-
manent Secretary, Ministry of Finance. Attached as Annex III is a loan and
project summary.



- 10 -
Project Description
30.       The proposed project would form part of the Swaziland Government's
continuing program of rural development. Most aspects of the proposed proj-
ect's design and objectives would follow on and expand the Government's
RDA Program, which was initiated in 1970 with ODM assistance (para. 27). The
proposed project would, over five years, strengthen agricultural services and
provide rural infrastructure in 10 new RDAs and would strengthen central
management for rural development programs. The 10 RDAs cover about 350,000
ha, 35 percent of total Swazi Nation land or 20 percent of the total area of
Swaziland; about 125,000 Swazis, 25 percent of the country's population,live
in project areas. The proposed project includes components for (a) strengthen-
ing and developing extension services and infrastructure, (b) livestock
development, (c) land development and construction works, (d) incremental
agricultural inputs, (e) credit services,(f) access and feeder roads, (g)
social infrastructure development, (h) central management services, and (i)
studies and training. Because of manpower constraints and limitations on the
Government's implementation capacity, not all of the above components will be
provided to each of the 10 RDAs. The livestock development and land develop-
ment and conservation works components will be limited to two RDAs which will be
more intensively developed than the others in the initial five-year investment
period.
31.       The project components would have the following features:
(a) Extension Services and Infrastructure. Extension services
for crops and livesock would be strengthened in the 10
project RDAs. Extension efforts would include assistance
in primary cooperatives, small-scale dairies, home
economics, nutrition and fish pond and small stock
development.
(b) Livestock Development. Livestock development would form
part of a broad national program which aims at destocking
Swazi Nation land pasture, upgrading cattle through a
national breeding program and raising herd productivity.
Under the project, livestock development would include
general extension in all RDAs and intensive livestock
development in two, where improved management of all
herds on suitable communal pastures would be introduced.
(c) Land Development and Conservation Works. Land development
and conservation works, which would be confined initially to
the two RDAs to be intensively developed, would aim to:
(a) avert soil erosion caused by improper land use,
(b) rationalize utilization of scarce land resources through
delineation of arable and grazing areas, (c) consolidate
fragmented land holdings, (d) resettle homesteads as
required and (e) enhance land productivity through



- 11 -
terracing, irrigation development and fish ponds.
Existing equipment would be utilized and is expected
to be supplemented under a future USAID loan, now
under consideration.
(d) Agricultural Inputs. The Central Cooperative Union
would supply farmers in the 10 RDAs with agricultural
inputs including fertilizer, pesticides, planting
materials, and supplies for marketing and storage.
Estimates of requirements are based on past experience
in RDAs and agricultural production projections.
(e) Agricultural Credit. The Swaziland Development and Savings
Bank's (SDSB) field operations would be strengthened in 10
RDAs; SDSB staff would be assigned to RDAs and provided
with an office, a house and vehicle. They would assist
extension staff and cooperatives in arranging seasonal
credit and recovering loans. It is expected that the in-
creased credit usage would aid SDSB and the cooperatives in
designing better credit services, reducing the cost of credit
and determining real costs of providing credit, with a view
to establishing clearer interest rate policies. In order to
keep the issues concerning rural credit under review, the
Government has agreed to consult with the Bank at least
once a year on its credit policies for small farmers (Section
4.03(b), Loan Agreement) and to have SDSB prepare for dis-
cussion with the Bank, an annual report on SDSB's lending
operations to small farmers indicating the cost to SDSB of
such operations, SDSB's proposed budget for such operations
for the following year and recommended interest rates
(Section 4.04, Loan Agreement).
(f) Access and Feeder Roads. About 900 km of new access and
feeder roads would be constructed within the 10 RDAs.
The roads would lead from farms to extension centers and
improve access to adjacent regions and towns.
(g) Social Infrastructure. Two rural health clinics and an
addition to an existing clinic would be built in the two
intensive RDAs. A limited number of rural water supply
installations for human consumption would be developed.
(h) Central Management Services. The existing RDA Management
Unit within the Ministry of Agriculture would be expanded
and strengthened to enable it to manage and coordinate all
RDAs.
(i) Studies and Training. Included in this component are
funds for (a) up to 15 man-years of technical assistance
to replace experts previously funded under the UNDP crop



- 12 -
and livestock projects who had to be released as a result
of the UNDP financial shortfall, (b) a livestock marketing
study, (c) future project preparation, (d) monitoring and
evaluation of project progress and (e) development of a
certificate-level training course for agricultural extension
workers. The course would consist of a year's schooling with
emphasis on practical content, followed by two year's field
experience after which the extension workers would be
eligible to return to study for their diploma. Plans for
the course are well advanced with the first class of 40
students scheduled to begin in April-May 1977. Due to the
importance of the certificate-level training course for
the success of the RDA program, its development would be
a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01 (b), Loan Agree-
ment).
Project Costs and Financing
32.       Total project costs are estimated at US$15.4 million (excluding
taxes and duties of US$1.7 million), of which US$8.7 million, or 56 percent,
would represent foreign exchange expenditure. A detailed breakdown of project
costs is provided in Annex III. The Bank and the other external financiers
together would provide on a parallel basis US$12.6 million or 82 percent of
net total project costs, including US$4.0 million of local currency expend-
itures. The proposed Bank loan of US$4.0 million would finance 26 percent
of net total project costs, including US$660,000 in local costs. In para. 17,
it was suggested that external financiers should support the Government's
economic policies by financing some local costs in those projects having a
relatively low foreign exchange component. In this project, the foreign
exchange component (56 percent) is relatively low due to the sizable number
of locally salaried employees (extension workers, equipment and vehicle
operators, ministry staff) and the fact that the civil works are small and
scattered widely throughout rural areas so that they are not expected to
attract foreign contractors. AfDB and EDF would make rather substantial
contributions to the local expenditures (US$2.0 million and US$1.3 million,
respectively). ODM would not finance any local costs since its contribution
to the project is limited to technical assistance. The proposed financing
arrangements for the project are:



- 13 -
US$ million       %
4.0          26    IBRD - to finance vehicles, equipment, fencing,
land development costs, technical assistance,
studies, monitoring and evaluation and some
project management and extension operating
costs.
5.4          35    African Development Bank (AfDB) - to finance
most project buildings, road development,
livestock infrastructure (except fencing),
irrigation dams and fish pond developments,
and operating costs for livestock development
and agricultural credit services.
2.9          19    European Development Fund (EDF) - to finance
some project management and extension service
costs, full costs of incremental agricultural
inputs for four years, and project training
costs.
0.3           2    ODM - to finance some technical assistance
costs.
2.5          16    Government of Swaziland - to finance some
cost of all project components.
0.3           2    Farmers - to contribute to the costs of livestock
infrastructure, land development, buildings,
seasonal inputs and on-going maintenance.
15.4         100    Total (excluding taxes and duties)
1.7                Taxes and duties
17.1                Total Project Costs
Project Management and Implementation
33.       The proposed project would be administered together with the four
ODM-financed RDAs. Project implementation would be fully integrated and
the project components would not be distinguished by financing source except
for purposes of procurement and disbursement. The project should be com-
pleted by mid-1982.
34.       The Ministry of Agriculture would have principal responsibility
for management of most components and for coordination of overall project



- 14 -
implementation. The Department of Agriculture within the Mlinistry would
carry out extension and land development in all RDAs, would oversee staff of
other ministries in these areas, and would be responsible for ensuring proper
coordination. The Director of the Agriculture Department would oversee
overall project management through a RDA Management Unit responsible to him.
The Government has agreed to consult with the Bank on the qualifications,
experience and terms of reference of the individuals to be appointed to the
RDA Management Unit (Section 3.02 (b), Loan Agreement). Establishment of
the RDA Management Unit and initial appointment of staff to the four senior
positions would be conditions of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 (a), Loan
Agreement).
35.       The Government has agreed to establish by September 30, 1977 an
interministerial committee of senior representatives of participating
ministries and agencies to coordinate all aspects of the RDA Program (Section
3.02 (c), Loan Agreement). The Central Rural Development Board (para.
23) would approve land use plans for chiefdoms, and oversee implementation of
those plans in all RDAs. The RDA Management Unit, in cooperation with the
Economics Section of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance,
would prepare an annual work program for the entire RDA Program as part of
the Government's budget process. The Government has agreed to submit to
IBRD each year for its review and concurrence a draft annual work program
by August 31 for the fiscal year beginning the following April 1
(Section 3.05, Loan Agreement).
36.       During project implementation, farmers would pay the full cost
of agricultural inputs. Efforts would be made to maximize farmer parti-
cipation in development works, including fencing, pasture improvement, and
water supply installation, and to ensure that local communities assume most,
if not all, recurring maintenance costs. This would lessen the financial
burden on the Government and contribute to the involvement of the local com-
munity in the project. Government support of initial investments and basic
services would be appropriate, however, given the low level of development
of the project RDAs and sharp disparities in income and available services
between the population in these areas and elsewhere in Swaziland. The Gov-
ernment intends to develop more explicit policies for the recovery of rural
development costs from beneficiaries and has agreed to an annual exchange
of views with the Bank on this matter (Section 4.03 (a), Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
37.       Contracts for the supply of vehicles and equipment (US$1.4 mil-
lion) 1/ and fencing material (US$0.4 million) exceeding US$50,000 would
be awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Contracts for goods and services costing less than US$50,000
would be awarded following Government procurement procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Bank. The Central Transport Organization (CTO) would
be responsible for tendering and for maintaining all project vehicles.
1/ Estimates include contingency allowances.



- 15 -
Land development work (US$1.9 million) would be carried out by the Land
Development Section of the Ministry of Agriculture by force account. In
view of their small size, remoteness and dispersed location, these civil
works would not attract international bids; interest by qualified local con-
tractors would also be limited. Draft tender documents for all contracts
exceeding US$50,000 would be submitted to IBRD for approval before irnvita-
tions to bids were issued. Procurement for parts of the project financed
by AfDB and EDF would be in accordance with the standard procedures of these
institutions.
38.       Funds from the IBRD Loan would be disbursed over five years on
the following basis: (a) 70 percent of the total expenditures on equipment,
vehicles and materials (including fencing); (b) 65 percent of total expenditures
on land development; (c) 55 percent of staff salaries and other operating ex-
penditures for extension services and the RDA Management Unit; and (d) 100
percent of foreign expenditures or 75 percent of the local expenditures for technical
assistance, studies and monitoring and evaluation. Disbursements against (a), (b)
and (d) would be fully documented; disbursement against (c) would be made against
certificates of expenditure, the documentation for which would not be sub-
mitted for review, but would be retained by the Borrower and made available
for inspection by the Bank during the course of project supervision missions.
Benefits and Risks
39.       The benefits of the project would consist of:    (i) increased pro-
duction and marketing of crops (valued at US$7.2 million a year at full
development) and livestock (valued at US$0.9 million a year at full develop-
ment); (ii) provision of rural infrastructure and services (roads, water
supply, health centers, nutrition information and family planning); (iii)
strengthening of overall capacity to manage rural development projects; and
(iv) protection of arable and grazing areas against soil erosion. Most incremental proj-
ect production would be exported resulting in foreign exchange earnings,
and some would be for domestic consumption thus reducing import requirements
for maize and other staple foods.
40.       An estimated 125,000 people from the lowest income group in
Swaziland (current family cash incomes range from US$115-280) would benefit
from the project, through increased consumption, cash income, and improved
social services. Project investments should increase annual agricultural
labor requirements in project RDAs by the equivalent of about 2,500 man-
years. Most civil works would be labor intensive and would employ an
estimated 500 additional persons during much of the contruction period.
41.       The economic rate of return from the directly productive elements of the
project (about 80 percent of net project investments costs) is estimated at 20-25
percent over 20 years. All project investment costs which relate directly to ex-
pected increases in agricultural production were included in the analysis; estimates
of costs of other incremental development schemes which should directly affect project
RDAs, were also included in the analysis. Costs of social infrastructure and a



- 16 -
share of central management costs and technical services attributable to ODM-
financed RDAs and future project preparations were excluded (estimated cost
about US$1 million). The rate of return analysis indicates that the project
should yield significant benefits, but it should be emphasized that the
analysis entails many uncertainties. These include poor initial data, the
lack of quantifiable field experience and the existence of a large number
of other projects and programs affecting project RDAs. Thus, it is dif-
ficult to attribute benefits to any one scheme. The rates of return are
most sensitive to delays in field-level implementation and to major shifts
in the relationships between production costs and prices.
42.       The proposed project does not entail substantial risks, in large
part because it is based on an ongoing and relatively successful development
program. The degree of success of the project will, however, depend on
the effectiveness of extension efforts and receptivity of farmers, and on
the rate at which physical developments can be implemented. To a great
extent this will depend on the caliber of central management and of staff, and
on support for project developments provided by local chiefs and the CRDB.
A potential risk is the problem of coordination among the various contributors
during implementation, but this risk will be lessened by the provision in
the Ministry of Agriculture of a RDA Management Unit responsible for coordi-
nating all lender inputs into the RDAs. Also, at the Government's request,
a memorandum of understanding has been circulated among the co-financiers
regarding the desirability of joint project supervision, reporting and infor-
mation sharing in order to ensure maximum coordination and minimize the
external demands placed on the RDA Management Unit. Other risks include
the possibility that services and infrastructure would not be maintained
following the investment period, and that the complexity of the RDA Program,
involving inputs from several ministries and Government bodies, will slow
implementation. These risks, however, should not be considered significant,
given the strong commitment which the Government and Swazi Nation leaders
have given to the existing RDA Program and the proposals to expand it, the
central coordinating role of the RDA Management Unit, and the project's pro-
visions for training and technical assistance. Further, annual discussions
of work programs should permit adaptation of the project as experience war-
rants. The project offers good prospects for substantially improving serv-
ices and raising incomes in the poorest areas of Swaziland, and development
should be readily replicable in areas of Swaziland not covered under current
development schemes.
Part V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
43.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Swaziland and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (III)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of the draft Resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.



- 17 -
44.       Special features of the draft Loan Agreement are referred to in
Section III of Annex IV to this report. Additional conditions of effective-
ness are that the RDA Management Unit has been established and the Unit's
staff employed (Section 6.01 (a), Loan Agreement), that the certificate-level
training course for agricultural extension workers has been developed (Section
6.01 (b), Loan Agreement), and that all conditions precedent to the initial
disbursement under the Loan Agreement with the African Development Bank, as
administrator of the Nigerian Trust Fund, and the Financing Agreement with
the European Economic Community have been fulfilled, (Section 6.01 (c) and
(d), Loan Agreement).
45.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan Agreement would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
46.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 9, 1977






ANNlEX I
Pa-ge-1 of 1, pages
TABLE 3A
SWAZILAND- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHET
LAND AREA (THOU KNZ)                             ----------------------
---------------                           ~~~~~SWAZ ILAND                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES 01970)
TOTAL          17.4.                                            MOST RECENT
AGRIC.         15,1                          1960         1 970   ESTIMATE             BOYSWANA      MAURITIUS        GABONJ
NPPER CAP[ITA CUSS)                          800         200         170.019.                            350.0       110.
POPULATI3N AND VITAL STATISTICS
PUPULATION  (MID~~~~YN. MILLION) ~~0. 3        0. 4         0.5                   0.6          0.8           0. 5
PUPULATION DEkSITY
PER SQUARE Kg.                             18.0        24. 0        28.0                   1 .0       40 8.0          2. 0
PER SQ. KR. AGRICULTURAL LAND             I19.0         28.0        30.0 Ia                1.0        72 9. 0
VITAL STATISTICS
C RUDE    BIRTH RATE C/THOU, AyE)          51.:7       50.3         4,9.0                 ,6.          3 5.9         31.8
cRE7:     DEATH RATE C/THOU, Av)           282     2    4.6         21.8                  25.1,         8. 9         25.17
INFANT M4ORTALITY RATE C/THOU)                .            ...58. 8
LRIFESEXPECTANCY AT BIRTH CIRS)            35.9        41.0         4,3.                  41.0         63.2          38.5
GROSS RLPROIUCT IN RATE                      ..          3.5         3.5                   3.2           2.4          2.0
POPULATION GAOWTH RATE CZ)
TOTAL                                       2. 4         2.9*        3.2 aI1.9                          2. 4          L.0
URBAN                                        ..         13.6/ai      4.7/b                16.2 /A       4..9          8.0
URBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)                  2.6 /a      7.1 Ab       7.9                  7. 3         4 4. .0      32. 0
AGE STRUCTURE CPERCENT)
0 TO 14 REARS                            146.9        46..6 /b     48.2 Ic                  .         4 1. 9        34. 0
15 TO 64 YEARS                             50.3         1,9.1 lb    49.2 7e                 .          5 4.8         61.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                           2.8          4,.3 71     2.6 7-c.                            3 .6         5. 0
A(.E DEPENDENCY RATIO                          1.0         1.0 /b       I.0, /.                            0.e          0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                      1. 2!/d     1.2          ..                     ..1 .5 /a                0. 7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS CCUMULATIVE. THOU)                  ..                      .                      .         49.6
USERS (I OF MARRIED WOMEN)                   .             ..
EMNPLODYMEN14T
TOT.AL LABR FORCE CTHOUSARD)                  1 30. 0      185.0       200.0                    ..         50.0        274.0   Ia
LABOR '0RCE IN AGRICULTURE CI)                80,4        82.1         70.1                     .         3 0.0        58.0
UNEMIPLOYED   IZ OF LABODA FORCE)               ...                       .                     .         1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
P I   PIVTE  INCOEREC0 BY-
HIGHEST    51 OF HOUSEHODLS                   ...                      ...                                           45.3 lb
HIGHEST 20% Of HOUSEHOLDS                    ...                       ..                                  .         67.57X
LOWEST    20 1 Of HOUSEHOLDS                  ...                      ..                                  .3. 27
LOWEST    401 Of HOUSEHOLDS                   ...                      ..                                  .8579
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
I OWNED BY TOP 101 OF OWNERS                    .            ..
1 OWNED BY SMALLEST 10l OWNERS                  .            ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
PUPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        ~~~~93rCC0   8100.0      8300.0 Ia            15850. 0      4 09 0.0      5100. 0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON               2090.0 /        ..       980.0 7.- d          1280.0         80 0. 0      600.0
PJPULAT ION PER HOSPITAL BED                4,9O.o 79    300.0       270.0 _               390.0         250.0        100. 0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF 
CALORIES CI OF REQUIREMENTS)                 ..           ..r.8.0                                     104.0          916.0
PROTEIN CGRARS PER DAY)                       ...                      .65.0                           5 0.C0        56.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE                 .            ..                              33. 0        1 9.0         30. 0/c
DEATH RANTE C/THOU) AGES 1-4                    .            .
EDUCATION
AUUTE   ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                             56. 0/c     84. 0/c      90.0/6                66.0 /b       79.0 Ic     168.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                            5.0 7c-     i .67-c     25 ..07e               a. o 7       35.C 7-      16. 0/d
YEAiRS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                   12. 0       L2.0         12.0                  12.0          1 4.0        13. 0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
CZ OF SECONDARY)                            5. 0         2. 0        3.0 /a               1 9.0          D.C0/b      15. 0
ADULT LITERACY RATE CZ)                         .         30.0           .                  2D.0             .          30.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM CAVERAGE)
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER CI)                               .            ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
CZ OF ALL DWELLINGS)                        5.0          9.0          .                    9. 0 
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECfRICITY CI)                           .             ..
CONSUMPTION
RAIOI RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)                 r.0        7 4.0       -1 11.0                1.           0.            2.
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)                 10. 0       10.0         14,.0                  1.0         15.0          11. 0
ELECTRICITY CKWH/YR PER CAP)                  35.0           .       180.0 Ia                  .         27 1.0        194.0
NEWSPRINT CKG/YR PER CAP)                        ..                      .                      .          07
SEE MUT ES N   DEINITION.      NREES



ANNEX:
Page 2 f 4s pages
NOTES
nIre- otherise noted. data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and [961, for 1970 betee             1968 and 1970 and for Most ,Szeret Estimate bet-ee
1973 aod 1975.
* Differece    betwee  LNf rat  n  natura   i-creas  sod IBRD popolstlan groth rote don to differet census baees.
no Seeotio of Gabon as the      bot        -atry Is base.d on ira similarity to popolatin sloe and -anol         atonetore, althougb Gabon is at
higher leve   of develore-nt.   Brab coutries hav     wel1-dlvroaufled er     le.aendosd with r-srl ---uoe               and hove ad-a-rd, -ctrs
SWAZILAND       1960     7   1956,     /b  1962,         6 -i2 a-d 13-i7 yoa-   of ago o-pottlely,        Id Satin  of population   oder ii aod 65 and near tot
total labor fot.-
1970     /   1956-66,     lb  1966,    Ic  6-12 and 13-17 vest    of ago repeut-rly:       d  Ratio of opuplaten under 11 sod 69 andno
on total labor foro.r.
MOST RECENT EST LtATF-    La  1972,     /b1966-73,       fo  Afrlen popuIlato     only.     Id  le-1udiag  -eeiast-nt    es      l   6-I?   aud 13-i?
BOTSWANAs       1970     Ia  19664-70,    lb  6-13 and 34-18 years of age    opeai-ely.
MIAURITIUS      1970     '   Rat- of popsLatin under 15 sod 65 and o-o       to Ltota  labor for-,      /b   Eiruisin   -cahertaIig,              5-12 and
13-18  oat. of age t-peoii-oy.
§ABOIN          1970         A-ti-o population aged 15-591       !b  bo-n    -oipiene,      ic  1964-66.     Id  12-19 year   of age.
R6. lIne 9. 1964
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL ThICAEORS
Land Al.a (thou~ 2m~                                                                      PaPalnion Par notino Pera        - foPeLaI.tn dirded by sombe    of pr..otloing
Total-   To.tal -sf..e are   -opo-utg land acasad E.L.ud waer.                                at   and female graduste scen     "t-ai-d' at-rtfe-eeao               d
ANnie.-   900t t--t as-Liate of sgoinult-nl ares       -ed temPorariYo                         -aila-y peonn-l stub tratorg       -re-po-ino.
pe-   -assly for n.-Pa, psta--, macho      & kltuhen   ard-e -r to lie                 P.palatton eon hospital bed - Popolatuon di,idol by somber of hospital beds
falLow                                           ..anilabie i, public mid private                                            onera   -rd spuodalio-  hnyfta] and
relabiltitine teeer, enscl.dr ..e.r..en    kno    and  -stalislhssta fEr
CI?  aroAAt (ifr  -lO  pr  aylt   et o.in   a -or-en:-aw.rb-ktp,ri-s.                 oateta     med ponvetie rare
na¶evsneenaeretad-        mehod as co-ic Maek At15- (1973-'l b.n.La)             Pr -ocis    anl    of --lou- '5. at rearnetl           - ip-re   to-  nege
39W,  1603 noel i;'~~~ dais.                                      sqalosi a.t of ne  food suppl-e a-aLblo Ln. roo-te      par .a..ta pEr day,
ftp~~~Latl.. -d llt~~~~~l st.ti.tk                                   -ad ornges L, rcmii, not -upiseuLd. a-ua               feed, nods     ..sti-
poacaulo  fel-ye  sotlis) - c o  3u1  fier.  f no  sntlha.Lies-ed Co fond Proo-asbg and Lass.es In dit,rrbtrim, rqdnei
ena'fltOf  f  w   sdnasti~a~           ll6t. 19201 sod 1975 dsr-                            'adbsiYoidtegeleootloptaaa                            oywl-n         agn ad
Petusit  apot  o  potin  ema  erdayl - Protea -  oeont    t per
Psoultion  eosot  - pe   tasarekbe  f agot, land - Computed ae ab-o for                caita ,.net epplelP,,".. o  odprdy     e   uppo      fesd is defineda
agri-ultonl land only.                                                                     ob-n, oqoeeafor all c-otries             -tahliehodhby IISDA [E-nni
V-1 st.tt.t                                                            R-1-h~~~~~~~~~~~~~goeso  eoSoes proide  o E t.f,ao. aloIa.re o f 60 r-n  of total
feusi Siariutrus                                                      p~~~~~roti  petday  aa-Y   as gran  etean I asS pois  protea, at ablt,
Crad   birtb tot  rn thssnaod, snoc-A11o11l vItuc biths per ihou...od                         I  grams shoal, d be anima  er.tot.; these -eaedardo ar    loe   than those
pf Sd-rar ppultt-n   ten-year   -ts-tbeiiuanae         igt     1910 and 191,           of 75 gram  of totL1 p,otes    and 23 grot   of animal p-tle-   so an
a_nd flrcyaraef          inn     t  1675 fat noe   m   etstimate.                            a--ng   for the world, propseod by PA     en rho Third World Food Surney.
Co do-ds   rate  e  tbosadsor            Annul d-sita penur     sa Af nid-              Po   aita erat-i   etayply from aiasl sand pulse-    Protein eapply of food
Yea  Ppryla.sor., ia-yea-tteors          caga      ndegu    196  sod 1970   a               dance   fi   ai-sat   and pela-t to gram   per day.
fre-yst  ncageenIngin135fr        ..s onos n   o lo.Death                                mit f/thou) ages 1-4 - A.e.al deathe per thousa.nd in ogo gr-p
Infant nratyorf/hn              -AnaI deths of infants        -d-r oeyaof                   -1-4 year, to childre     to thin age grasp, eagg-std -as    n indiot-r at
age Per thos-od Ito- births.                                                               nal-nstri-n
Lufe osp-tr-y at bArth fy-o)      A-Atrag   orhr of yncr     of life   eana
as bIrth, casa11y tiu-y-onenae          edingI     1960, [970 aud 1975 f-r              Educostim
dec_laptec rautrles.                                                                    Adjusted -noltneec ratio - pri-er     -choL - E-lL-net of all aga&      a
free  rnra_da   ian rat    _ usAce_ge  _ab_ sOfIve daugitote aw-n        will                 peronisgo of pni-ay soh-o-age popalatian, toIod-e obildee          aged
beat in her noral    -eprod-ti-n period Of sic espet-oc- preene        age-                b-11 year  ba    djo   dfordifferent Lnngrhs of primary edoratioss
sPetifi   feti lity rat-o   osualy five-yos    avera...ges ending en 19hQ,                 for sonoe       ish -i-oer-a   adoa-ti,     -sro1-eo  nay   --ud 1002
L970ad 1975 for devlop-ng scet-e.neeem                                                                psaptis son     - bala  tshv  ths fifUiia  -rhol age.
fono -o rowh   atac  .   - tocal   - pud s-nua     g-ur    rates of mud-             Adlutoero.nnoea             . -.ne..ndary suhool - Computed anaae
yearpopuatin fo  195-hI 96-0, mond-190      .                                      osod- dsrnrquire               at 1eat font rears    fappreved pri-ssy
FPauslaims stos)   [se    l7. - arbor - Computed libo g-coh rare of tcrlinErci                              pra-ides genra,    -ont-onl ormahe         urtiog
paplaton,diferet dfintios o  or anares  -y aff-oc a-pa-a-                     i-str-tion for pupils at 12 to 17 Year     of ago, uor-syod--c
b sty of dta     ng    -suntin.-eue                                                                 r   genrallyneodd
dra   osalo       2o    ual       ss    f   ro    otta      oao     n                    Year   of schooling p-ided (finot and secod level) - Total year          at
d_fnes    dfntei-in    of urban areas nay aftert -parbiloty of date                        ooaip     at anuadary Raye, vonti-nl i.t-srtOn .ap be Par-
amog ratsfe.-                                                                              salyoro-PIataly e-ulded.
use st-at-r     pret      - Cblidren (0-li years). w-kh--age (15-64 yeate) .                'sain      noment (, of s-a-dar) - Verori-Ia institetiont
me 1nfe  65 year  and ano) as p-rrenges of tid-y-s papolati-n                       i.leaad  t-choia, indsatrial or oca       program  shiboprae
AgFeednnrtio - Ra tio af populatif     under 15 and 61 and ne    uindepend-tlyans deparm-enr                           of aeondary i-stltratoa
thos  of   ges 15 hbr-gh 64.                                                            Adult literay rate [21 - Literas     odo1ta (ohIo to red.ad wrIte) a
=nnal    dependen-  ratio - Ratio of PoPsl.iano    under l  and 65 and evr                    -rtntga et trta1 adet poyclotin agod 15 yeas.         ndovr
to th   lbo1  f      Lu  i age gosp c  153-64 yer.
Famiy eonelg -acrPeer   fo_stu-et-    th-)o  - Craulatill nuha oblosfr
araetar  of  lrr-conrald-yco  coder ... pl-n of nationaIlfam~ily                 Peeo     cttn     A,be      Ayrae     ober of perosprtni
Phonig poga         neicpto.-rpued o-e-tte-l dwellings                                                                       -eoba      norean d-oeltin es lo~de
Family p-tinia   -sar,]a atldwno                   orerosfetld                                non-p---anet otra     -esr   an    oeid    pane..
wenon   f obild-b-aing age (I5-b pe-rs      abaus    blrth-sot-l d-vio-                 O-usied iwelline    w itbhnt nipd oscar f7. - is-pied sansntiona1
to  llmrried -nne      in i-   oge g-ep.                                                   dweLIroga in urb-ansd nata    are-    ithont in-id   or socotde piped
wa ter fosilities as p-tentge of all r'-pied dw1elligs.
Es5p1,  ..net                                                                              Acoass to eletotuite (2 of all d-illisga) - Coeenionl dwellings
Eatml lab- for     (ibh-ad) - E-onn-clly        -rt-e peeson, isalodie,g                      nith afsuoririty in lielatg barter    as p-ret of total dwellings in
ared fame      ed unemPloyed bsr -oludong bhnassire, atadeeti,t-.,                         orbon and rura   area.
deftintion   is~_ vaiou    utie     nent e-p-rble.                                      R-Ia dwellings     - onested go nieitrtint  M2  - Computd as abov    for
Labar fose is agisult-r C%) -               -gfntr1 taboo tf-- (in Paning,                    nata  dweling    onY.
foretry, hoeting and fishing     aspe  Ietas     a   utea  Labor for..
insemploynd (2 of lshb- faro) - kremploPyd areL-ully3 def ined as pets ensC-nontt-
who ar   able and atllg astab ak Jab, ost ofajab o            gi-o day,                  adeeafis(ptthea pop) - All cype- of r-irevt               for radio brod-
remaIed ot nO  job  aed  enhig aso  fora speifie  einncanp-riad           ra  ta   g    'erI phblie per rhee-nd of -opulorir     tnolds
onnnsdig   n   wo,    aynt    acopaalebrusacunresdo                  o                 n ienadrcivrsitencr _adjsyern_antgirrrd                            Io
dlffnr-t defInition     at onnplyad and ....n     o f data. e.g., -npisy-                  tadlo sets wa     in effect,  daa atenrs. tyears' -tyst be -oparblo
n-o  ofia     saitls       -aple -uryn.    -npusrysonly-nt           a--a-e                since -at  -oatrios abolished li-nefg.
boone dI tribatin - Petretage ofpniastoi-en  (bothin use)  and kisd)              sel  1g-s than sighs paros.-          ldaabssen           ere      n
reret-d by rashe 0 S,     riohbi  26,poet11          n   oo      00P  f                   nuisay -ehirin-
h-sahalda.                                                                              El-tri-iy C(hly/v   one ..) - Annua     -asopti-o     f IndustrIal,o-
-eortl, pablIe and pri-ate     I-ltirity In kilowtt boat      per capita,
liatribsetfo  ci land  --htaip -     rN-otag-e of land masse   b,, -asthi-t                   genraly base.d on pred-tifndata,-wthostjallowne a-             lse   in
102 and yasreet 102 of land onr,grids hot allowing for imparts ad emp-ru                                                                of   eIr.lity.
H..Ith ..d N.C,,iti-                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~N-wpaint (ks/yr per -sp  - Per -spsta annoat o-sption in ktilogra
Popalatian pe   -hsoa      - fapolatian divided by nombe- of pr-tisiog-t.tdf                                    -   i     p -i.pl          tfprt      f   -prt
phssaaqotifiad iro    a medi-a  soheal at oniverary level



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 Page'
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN L19,175                                  tNlmNAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                             1971/72-73/74                1974/75-/
GNP at Market Prices         240.9       100.0                                 7.0                      6.0
Gross Domestic Investment     62.2         25.8
Gross National Saving         76.2         31.6
Current Account Balance       14.0         5.8                                 95
Exports of Goods, NFS        192.1         79.7                                8.5
Imports of Goods, NFS        161.3        67.0                                  *                       .
OUTPrUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974/75
Value Added                  Labor Force /                V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.      %                 Mln.       %                  XL $ 
Agriculture                   72.0        31.7              .157       78                  458          41
Industry                      60.4        26.6              .015        8                4,026         357
Services                      94.6        41.7              .029       14                3,262         288
Unallocated
Total/Average           227.0       100.0              .201      100.0              1,129         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                            Central Government
lLn.)        _     Of GDP                   (Emal.Mln.)  _        of GDP
197          197        196 -7                1974/75    1974/75    197_/73-__/75
Current Receipts                                                                 41.9       22.5           28.5
Current Expenditure                _                        -                    24.8       13.3           16.9
Current Surplus                                                                  17.1        9.2          11.6
Capital Expenditures                                                              9.5        5.1           6.5
External Assistance (net)                                                        10.4        5.6            7.1
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                1970         1971        1972        1973        1974        1975
Olillion Emal. outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                    ..           ..         39.5        43.6        56.3        82.3
Bank credit to Public Sector            -1.2         -1.5        -2.0         2.8        -5.3      -13.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector           17.1         18.2        17.4        22.6        29.3       42.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP         ..          ..         34.6        31.1        30.2
General Price Index (1963 = 100) 4/    109.1        111.3       113.9       127.1       151.6       170.3
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                      2.2          2.0         2.3        11.6        19.3       12.3
Bank credit to Pablic Sector             ..         -25.r,      -33.3       140.0      -189.3
Bank credit to Private Sector            ..           6.4        -4.4        29.9        29.6
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Estimated on basis of national accounts data for period July to June. Not strictly comparable with balance
of payments fi,,ures which relate to caleadar year.
2/ Provisional.
3/ The labor force is defined as Persons emnoloved in the -,-e,n -poto- nltus t1,ose xvose main occupation was
in the traditional sector;  excludes 25,000 absentees mainly in South Africa  (29,000 in 1976).
4/ No oereral Price Index is nvaill-ie; 4ndex relates to the Uldill cities of Mbabane ancd Manzini only.
not available
not applicable
lqn".srv 1 077



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 Pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FWWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
1973     1974      19752/                                             US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods             109.3    178.3      173.6             Sugar                              63.5     42.0
Imports of Goods              83.3    112.5     123.8              Wood Products                      28.1     18.6
Trade BaJance                 26.0     S57E     -4-8               Fruits (mainly citrus)             10.3      6.8
Non-factor Services (net)     -5.n     -2.6      -2.7              Iron Ore                           10.5    710
Interest Payments (net)        ..        ..        ..              Asbestos                           10.5      7.0
Workers' Remittances                                               Meat & Meat Products                3.5      .2.3
Other Factor Payments (net) -30-4     -36.0      -53.4
Net Transfers                  5.5     11.6       12.1              All other commodities             20.0     13.2
Balance on Current Account   - 3.9      38.8       5.8                   Total                       151.2    100.0
Direct Foreign Investment       ..       ..        ..             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1975
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                -        *-        *-                                                       US $ MQn
Amortization
Subtotal                    ..        ..        ..               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              46.3
Capital Grants                                                      Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Govt. Capital (net)            14.6     15.3      10.9              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i            -12.9    -26.8       18.3
Increase in Reserves (+)      -2.2     27.3       35.0            DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1975
Gross Reserves (end year)
Net Reserves    (end year)      ..       ..        ,.               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                3.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                          Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                      83.3    112.5     123.8
of which:  Petroleum        8.4     15.7      17.6
Exports                     109.3    178.3     173.6
of which:  Petroleum        ..       ..        ..       IBRD/IDA LENDING. (December 1976) (Million US$):
IBRD        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
12Z1   12Z2   12Z_    19Z4   1975    Outstanding & Disbursed               9.2       2.9
US$1.00 = E               0.71   0.76   0.69   0.68   0.73    Undisbursed                            8.3       4.9
E1.00 = US$             1.40   1.29   1.44   1.47   1.37    Outstanding incl. Undisbursed         17.5       7.8
1/ IMF staff estimates.
2/ Provisional.
3/ Ratio of Debt Service to Government Current Revenue.
not available
not applicable
January 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2 Pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SWAZILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as at December 31, 1976)
Amount (less cancellations)
US$ million
No.       Year     Borrower       Purpose                   Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Two loans and one credit
fully disbursed                                             7.0     2.8        --
1058-SW   1975    Kingdom of      Water Supply &
Swaziland      Sewerage Facilities       3.5                2.8
518-SW    1975    Kingdom of      Education
Swaziland                                        5.0        4.9
1108-SW   1975    Kingdom of      Highways II              7.0                 5.5
Swaziland
Total                                 17.5     7.8       13.2
of which has been repaid             2.9     0.2
Total now outstanding                 14.6     7.6
Amount sold                     2.2
of which has been repaid      1.1    1.1     _
Total now held by Bank & IDA 1/       13.5     7.6
of which is undisbursed              8.3     4.9       13.2
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2 Pages
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 1058-SW     Water Supply and Sewerage:  US$3.5 Million Loan of
December 9, 1974; Effective Date: March 12, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
After some initial delays, the project is progressing satisfactorily
and is expected to be completed within the scheduled time. Following the
September 1975 devaluation of the rand (Swaziland's currency, the emalangeni,
is tied to the rand), it is possible that some surplus will exist in the Bank
loan, but this cannot be determined until project disbursements are further
advanced. A recommendation regarding disposition of surplus funds will
then be made.
Credit No. 518-SW    Education:  US$5 Million Credit of December 9, 1974
Effective Date: March 11, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is continuing to make good progress. The Program
Implementation Unit is operating satisfactorily, but the local counterpart
to the Project Director has not yet been appointed. Architectural design,
construction and procurement are proceeding well, and if they continue at the
present rate, the project could be completed ahead of schedule. Costs are
within the original estimate.
Loan No. 1108-SW     Second Highway:  US$7 Million Loan of May 5, 1975;
Effective Date: October 13, 1975; Closing Date
December 31, 1980
Construction of the Tashaneni-Mlaula and Helehele-Phuzumoya roads
is progressing well, and is expected to be finished by the contract comple-
tion date. At Government's request, the loan agreement was amended (R76-232,
September 15, 1976) to permit utilization of US$1.8 million of an estimated
US$2 million surplus in the loan account. The surplus resulted partly from
the 1975 devaluation and partly from savings in physical contingencies. The
amendment will enable the Helehele-Phuzumoya road to be extended 25 km to Big
Bend.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4 Pages
SWAZILAND - RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Kingdom of Swaziland
Amount:                  US$4.0 million equivalent
Terms:                   8-1/2 percent per annum interest; repayable in
20 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace.
Project Description:     The project will provide assistance to 10 Rural
Development Areas, two of which will be developed
intensively. The project includes components for
(a) strengthening and developing extension services
and infrastructure, (b) livestock development,
(c) land development and construction works,
(d) incremental agricultural inputs, (e) credit
services, (f) access and feeder roads, (g) social
infrastructure development, (h) central management
services, and (i) studies and training.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4 Pages
Estimated Cost:
Percent of
Local   Foreign    Total   total cost
Project Component                    -------US$ '000--------
(a)  Extension Services and
Infrastructure                  1,984     1,762    3,746       32
(b)  Livestock Development             343      916     1,259       11
(c)  Land Development and
Soil Conservation                 318      714     1,032        9
(d)  Agricultural Inputs               101      531       632        6
(e)  Agricultural Credit Services      323      268       591        5
(f)  Access and Feeder Roads           603    1,023     1,626       14
(g)  Social Infrastructure             197      325       522        4
(h)  Central Management Services       211      603       815        7
(i)  Technical Services                591      784     1,375       12
Total                       4,672    6,931    11,604      100
Contingency Allowances:
Physical                        467      693     1,160
Price                         1,532    2,812     4,344
Total Contingencies         1,999    3,505     5,504
Total Project Costs         6,672   10,4351/ 17,107
(includes taxes & duties)
Total Project Costs
(net of taxes & duties)     6,672    8,735   15,407
l/ Taxes and duties of US$1.7 million are treated as foreign expenditures
because it is estimated the Swaziland Government will receive this
amount in rand from the Southern Africa Customs Union for goods
imported under this project.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4 Pages
Financing Plan:
US$'000     Percent
IBRD                       4,000        26
AfDB                       5,400        35
EDF                        2,900        19
ODM                          300         2
Government                 2,500        16
Farmers                      300         2
TOTAL                       15.4 /a    100
/a  Excluding US$1.7 million in taxes and duties.
Estimated Disbursements:
FY            1978      1979     1980     1981     1982      1983
--------------------- US $  000
Annual        400        600      800      800       800      600
Cumulative    400      1,000    1,800    2,600    3,400     4,000
Procurement
Arrangements:      Contracts for the supply of vehicles and equipment (US$1.4
million) 1/ and fencing materials (US$0.4 million), exceed-
ing US$50,000 would be awarded after international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts
for goods and services costing less than US$50,000 would
be awarded following Government procurement procedures,
which are satisfactory to the Bank. The Central Transport
Organization (CTO) would be responsible for tendering and
for maintaining all project vehicles. Land development
work (US$1.9 million) would be carried out by the Land
Development Section of the Mlinistry of Agriculture by
force account. In view of their small size, remoteness
and dispersed location, none of these civil works would
attract international bids; interest by qualified local
contractors would also be limited. Draft tender documents
for all contracts exceeding US$50,000 would be submitted
to the Bank for approval before invitations to bid were
issued. Procurement for parts of the project financed by
AfDB and EDF would be based on the standard procedures of
these institutions.
1/   Estimates include contingency allowances.



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4 Pages
Consultants:            Approximately 30 man-months of consultant services
would be required for a livestock marketing study
and future project preparation.
Rate of Return:          20-25 percent for the directly productive elements of
the project.
Appraisal Report:       Report No. 1306-SW
January 12, 1977



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2 Pages
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: one year
(b) Preparation by: Bank (RMEA) and Government of Swaziland
(c) Initial discussion with Bank: July 1974
(d) First Bank mission: July 1975
(e) Appraisal mission departure: June 4, 1976
(f)  Negotiations:   January 10-13, 1977
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: June 1977
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
(a) the Bcrrower shall establish as a condition of effectiveness a
RDA Management Unit within the Ministry of Agriculture staffed
with a Chief Project Coordinator, a Deputy Project Coordinator,
a Financial Controller, and a Senior RDAs' Manager (para. 34);
(b) the Borrower shall consult with the Bank on the persons to be
appointed to the Management Unit (para. 34);
(c) the Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 1977, establish
and thereafter operate a Project Coordination Committee (para. 35);
(d) the Borrower shall on August 31 in each year furnish to the Bank
a detailed plan for carrying out the Project and the Borrower's
rural development program during the fiscal year of the Borrower
immediately following that date (para. 35);



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2 Pages
(e) the Borrower shall at least once a year review with the Bank:
(i) the Borrower's policies on encouraging beneficiaries
to pay for the investment, operation and maintenance
costs of rural development projects (para. 36); and
(ii)  the Borrower's agricultural credit policies in respect
of small farmers in rural development areas (para. 31);
(f)  the Borrower shall cause SDSB to prepare an annual report for
the Bank's comment on SDSB's lending operations to small
farmers (para. 31);
(g)  the Borrower shall develop as a condition of effectiveness the
certificate-level training course for agricultural extension
workers (para. 31).



IBRD 2940R3
10  .? .0                                                        2') T -.-  - -To,=,.t\   -cL-GUST  1976
~~ 400Pmuider'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~2"             30
1                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
SWAZILAND                                                                               0     0 o0
0         1~~~0  ~     O     5
| -lMain roads- tar                             -                                KILOMETERS
Main roads-grovel r!
* Important airfield  """~          , , ~
iAerial ropewaiy < '>~ 
Irrigation schemes           ,-
lllUM  Pine and gum forests                                            9 
REGIONS    h   h
mHighveld- overage height                  <iiW.-.-
aibove sea level 1,200 m.              0'tI jI
M                   hei4h.                               ..
oboe sa lvel600rn  AB          g 
6 Lowveld-verage height                          j
abode sea level 20.Om    M-
.-   .       - Luborntio-average  he.ght                                       _
aibove seas level 5150fr
@g  National capital7
lnternctaonal bourdarieb  .~ ~ HH        b0 
~37/Mineral concussions  *
-.-DistriCt boundaie          f MII,E
To Johannesburg  -, *'A',~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TO ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~~I                          ' 
/~~~~~M                                                       k
USOfl'  K>-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
WI'  /                    V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sn
C.i       I                A     ZhN              -inz.nko






r           ~~SWAZ iLAND                 3r                    f
SWAZILAND                   31-                     To Koaopmviden,,  To Hectorspruit
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                        To Komotipoort
II                             ~To     =                                               l        J
I intensive RDA (IBRO)           NI
;Non-lntensive RDA(IBRD)                                 _
|Preseno RDA 1ODM)                                       H       t.t-r Reef
iZ l'  |RDA Purchose Area (ODM)                 rbertor,
| Fut,ire RDA's (ODM)
Swozi Notion Communol Land Not Covered by RDAP     '(
SISA Ranches
Fattening Ranches                          Havelock                                   r e,gote
,   Breeding Ronches                    ASBLThS                                                              P.ggs Peatk  \  . L  
Main Roads, Paved
Main Roads. Grovel
* Important Airfield
o Aerial Ccblewoy                       p                                    Si
E  Mines                                      obsRe
@     National Copitol             ah.ek/ I, )                                                                     ob 
Pine and Gum Forests  Johor borg  I      s honiel
Rivers                          Ax/                     $                                                   TO
-.-     International Boundaries                                        Os
27~ ~~~~~~ N    PiWet Retie         - 1 
X   /   MhlombaS <,,;U. t '4t;      (   v        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CCtAL MIMSSA  a ek,  
rin                                                                                                   n on  s i  donor
~~~~ANGOLA>.~~~~~~~O55BiA  /  ninb~~~~~~~~~~~nv  ~AL
!\EHOOBSIK g      -    -   -  trns         o  W :,; io            SIJU       b
NAMIWA  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                                4
To Amsterdam                                                 D   OK           \Spn.n, 
f] BOTSWANAka.o                                           / ;A BIQIO              MA STA
SOUTHN /s-  \-O PAN    i                  I                        j            I
CThr   AFrICA'@   ih 5.-  n.jpac  byILr    METERS 
0 jPr.lo XJ   O        10         0         30 I 00 400< Nogo I l                                   T rsAmL},L_
To Vol                            31s                            To                                     U /Lbombo  x
Eivn-b-A.--ih  - rsn d-                      - t



